 
•	 Q2 2014 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 The CocaCola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2007 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2006 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2003 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2003 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q1 2003 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2002 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q4 2001 The Coca-Cola Company Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q2  2014 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,191 words
   PD
22 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's second-quarter 2014 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with the investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have any questions.

I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP AND IR OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I am joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Waller, our Chief Financial Officer.

Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Kathy this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, Executive Vice President, and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Customer Officer, and President of Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan, Executive Vice President, and President of Bottling Investments, will also be available for our Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investor section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures, which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion, to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information.

Now I will turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Earlier this year, we established five global strategic priorities to restore our global growth momentum. Halfway through the year, I am pleased to report that we've delivered another quarter of sequentially improving performance results. While I am pleased with this year-to-date progress, we're conscious of the fact that we still have more work to do.

In spite of continued sluggish global economic growth, the beverage industry remains vibrant. Consumers today have a wider array of beverages to choose from than ever before, and our system is responding by evolving the way we operate, leveraging our strengths to create new competitive advantages. Our second-quarter and year-to-date performance results reflect the steady progress that we are making and that we expect to continue as we further solidify the foundation for long-term sustainable growth.

We closed out the second quarter with 3% global volume growth, including global sparkling growth of 2%. Importantly, price mix increased 2% on a consolidated basis, as we strive to deliver balanced volume and revenue growth.

We are seeing a number of encouraging signs across our global operating system. In the second quarter, brand Coca-Cola grew 1% in North America, along with solid 3% sparkling price mix.

We saw improving volume growth across several key markets in Europe. Eurasia and Africa continue to deliver balanced volume growth. Key markets in our Asia-Pacific operations delivered strong performance, including 9% growth in China, double-digit growth in India, and 1% growth in Japan. And we saw steady execution in the face of a challenging macro environment in Latin America.

As mentioned, this progress is built on the implementation and execution of our five global strategic priorities, priorities that emerged from a disciplined, fact-based look at what drives results and long-term sustainable growth. We know, for example, that great marketing combined with great in-market execution are fundamental building blocks of our formula for long-term sustainable growth.

When we conducted a comprehensive review of our Business last year, we identified areas where we could improve and put a focus plan in place to address them. With that in mind, I will now provide an update on our progress against each of our five strategic priorities.

Our first strategic priority is to accelerate global sparkling growth led by brand Coca-Cola. We grew global brand Coca-Cola 1%, a sequential improvement from the first quarter of 2014.

As noted earlier, our global sparkling brands grew 2% in the second quarter, thanks to solid performance across our portfolio of billion-dollar sparkling brands including Sprite, Fanta, Coca-Cola Zero and Schweppes. This led our 19th consecutive quarter of core sparkling value share gains.

Diet Coke and Coca-Cola Light declined mid-single digits. While this was a sequential improvement from the first quarter, we do recognize that we have more work to do here.

Progress in growing our global sparkling beverages is built on proven strategies that include delivering best-in-class marketing, driving immediate consumption transactions and leading industry innovation. While I could point to multiple examples of each, I would particularly like to highlight our Share-a-Coke campaign, as it successfully combines all three strategies, and it is being rolled out in more than 80 markets this year. The viral impact of this campaign and the engagement among teens has been more than encouraging.

We are excited about the campaign's expansion not only to new markets, but also its return for an encore in many markets. For example, this year in our northwest Europe and Nordics business unit, we are extending the program to include all Coca-Cola trademark immediate consumption and future consumption packs, and increasing the number of names from 250 to 1,000 per market. This is a tremendous logistical feat and marketing achievement befitting the world's most loved beverage brand.

The growth of brand Coca-Cola in North America in the second quarter gives us confidence that our focus on driving incidents, delivering best-in-class marketing and evolving our price pack architecture is setting the foundation for well-balanced growth in our flagship market. Through these efforts, we are reviving the romance of brand Coca-Cola, driving household penetration and increasing consumption frequency, all of which contributed to growth in the second quarter.

Our smaller-size packs contributed significantly to brand Coca-Cola growth in the second quarter and year to date. Over 60% of the volume growth in brand Coca-Cola in the second quarter was driven by double-digit growth in our mini-can and 16-ounce immediate consumption packages, reflecting strong consumer demand for smaller packages of ice-cold Coca-Cola. So we remain optimistic about our sparkling business in North America and around the world, and we are committed to supporting our brands, committed to driving execution and staying at the forefront of evolving consumer needs.

Our second global priority is to strategically expand our profitable still beverage portfolio. We have delivered 5% still beverage volume growth in the second quarter, and 6% growth year to date. Sports drinks, tea, energy, coffee and water all contributed to global growth, and enabled us to gain volume and value share in still beverages year to date.

Juice and juice drinks growth slowed year to date due to price adjustments, primarily to offset cost of goods increases in North America. However, we gained volume in value share in North America and also on a global basis.

Overall, the global juice growth story remains very robust. We are strengthening our leading brands, as demonstrated by the double-digit growth of Maaza and Rani year to date, along with high single-digit growth for Simply and mid-single-digit growth for Del Valle.

Our tea volume increased 4% in the quarter, growing volume and value share in the second quarter and year to date. Importantly, our tea brands within the US and Japan, our two largest tea markets, performed very well. Tea volume grew 6% in North America, driven by double-digit Gold Peak and Honest Tea growth; while in Japan, tea volume grew 5%, led by 8% growth of Ayataka, the 21st consecutive quarter of strong growth for this dynamic brand.

As a system, we are enhancing our premium water brands to drive revenue while investing in our value chains to improve profitability. Examples of premium water brands growing double digits in both the quarter and year to date include Smartwater in North America, I Lohas in Japan, and Vio in Germany. As we focus on building great brands, we are pleased to share that Smartwater will soon be available in Great Britain, and that addition of DASANI sparkling and DASANI drops is enhancing our brand margins in North America. Our water portfolio grew 7% in the second quarter and 10% year to date.

In the sports drinks category, we grew volume 6% in the quarter, fueled by our FIFA World Cup POWERADE activation. As the global value leader in still beverages, and with 11 billion-dollar brands and many more in the pipeline, we are diligently working to enhance the value of our still portfolio. And as exemplified by our recent partnership with Keurig Green Mountain, we will continue to strategically target opportunities to strengthen our position and build our breadth across new categories while building category beverage depth.

Moving now on to our third strategic priority, which is to increase brand investments by maximizing productivity, our productivity initiatives are on track, as is our commitment to increase media investments in key markets. We are delivering more and better-quality marketing by focusing on increased efficiency and effectiveness. Our global marketing campaign charters are fueling productivity and efficiency, while at the same time driving media effectiveness through higher-quality communication.

An example of the power of this approach is the full-scale activation of our FIFA World Cup campaign where a single creative idea, This Is The World's Cup, was executed across more than 170 markets in the second quarter. The success of our Coca-Cola music anthem for the 2014 FIFA World Cup reinforces the engaging nature of this campaign, as the anthem reached over 2 billion impressions, charting in the top-10 songs in 40 countries, and was ranked as the number-one song in Brazil at the start of the World Cup. The full impact of our enhanced marketing and productivity initiatives will clearly build over time.

Our fourth priority is to win at the point of sale by unlocking the power of our system. Our global system is committed to investing in new plants, investing in new distribution capabilities, investing in coolers and marketing, enhancing our immediate consumption capabilities while optimizing in-store activations and advancing our customers' business strategies, and finally, putting more feet on the street to service these accounts.

To that end, you may have read last week that, together with our bottling partners, we will be investing an additional $8.2 billion by 2020 to support our long-term business plan and vision in Mexico. Since 2010, our total system investments globally have exceeded $60 billion.

Our fifth priority is to invest in our next generation of leaders. We are doing this by inspiring our people to live our values of focusing on the market, working smart, acting like owners, and being passionate ambassadors for our Company and for our brands.

We are harnessing the potential of our millennial associates. Their optimism, their global mindedness, entrepreneurialism and social awareness drive them to build sustainable practices into every aspect of what they do, including right here at the Coca-Cola Company. We, therefore, established an internal group of millennial voices, and we are working with the World Economic Forum's Global Shapers to provide our leaders with insights on how to continue to evolve to meet the needs of this and also future generations.

We continue to focus on strengthening the core front-facing capabilities of franchise leadership, commercial leadership and marketing leadership, while also embracing emerging capabilities in the digital, mobile and social media arena. We are working with our global bottling partners to encourage more cross-system experience, having Company associates join bottlers, and bottling associates join the Company, to instill a one-team mentality across our global system ranks.

And another terrific example of how we're living our fifth priority is the Woodruff Cup, our most prestigious internal award named after our legendary Chairman, Robert Woodruff, whose tenure with the Company spanned from 1923 to 1985. Each year, our business unit Presidents select one of their peers as winner of this award, and people leadership is a key criteria. Our most recent winner of the South Latin business unit exemplifies what it means to inspire our next generation of leaders, as demonstrated by the fact that women make up more than half of their workforce, and that they've consistently been ranked among the top-three best places to work in that whole geography.

Our focus on our five strategic priorities enables us to execute the fundamentals while simultaneously transforming and advancing our Business. An important example of this is our North American refranchising effort to build a 21st-Century beverage partnership model. Our ongoing work is underpinned by our full commitment to create a modern, agile, consumer- and customer-focused operating model and system which balances national scale and local capability.

As we continue to roll out an evolved business model in North America, we expect to franchise the large portion of North America territories into a handful of proven regional bottlers that can best serve every local community within their contiguous operating territories. These larger bottling partners will be complemented by a select group of local bottling partners, enabling us to benefit from the passion and local touch of a franchise model, and to grow our Business faster and more profitably over time.

We are making progress, and we're implementing this work by executing smaller-scale transitions today so that we can seamlessly transfer larger portions of territory in the future. It is important for us to follow this deliberate process as we establish a structure to maximize long-term value for our shareowners while ensuring that there is no business disruption to our customers and consumers. We will provide you with additional details regarding this transformational initiative before the end of the year.

In summary, and as mentioned at the beginning of the year, we are committed to executing strategies that will deliver stronger growth. Notwithstanding the volatile environment in which we are operating, we are making steady and sequential progress as we invest in our brands together with our bottling partners, and we expect to fall within the corridors of our long-term growth algorithm in the second half of the year. Indeed, our second-quarter and year-to-date performance results reflect the steady progress that we are making to restore our global growth momentum, and I look forward to providing you with further updates later in the year.

Now I am happy to hand the call over to our new Chief Financial Officer, Kathy Waller, who will provide you with an update on our financial performance, as well as an outlook on our Business for the balance of the year. Following Kathy's prepared remarks, Irial Finan, Sandy Douglas, Ahmet Bozer and I will participate in our Q&A session to address any market-specific questions that you may have today. Kathy?

KATHY WALLER, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. I would like to start by saying that it is an honor to serve as the CFO of The Coca-Cola Company. In my more than 25 years with the Company, I have seen our Business evolve and grow over time, while remaining strategically focused on doing the right things to drive long-term sustainable growth. That is why I am confident about our Business, and I look forward to working with each of you.

As Muhtar mentioned, we have continued to execute the five strategic priorities we laid out at the beginning of the year. We achieved 3% volume growth in the quarter and delivered sound financial results over the first half of 2014.

Let's start by reviewing a few key drivers of our financial performance. Unit case growth was ahead of concentrate sales growth in the quarter, primarily due to timing of shipments. Importantly, after considering the impact of one less selling day, unit cases and concentrate sales were in line year to date, and we expect them to be in line for the full year.

Comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth was 3% for both the quarter and year to date, after excluding the impact of structural items. Our top-line growth included 2 points of positive price mix in both the quarter and year to date. Comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 5% in the quarter and 6% year to date, after excluding the impact of structural items.

Operating leverage was even in the quarter, as we continued to make the necessary investments behind our brands to accelerate growth, including a mid-single-digit increase in DME as we invest in the growth of our brands together with our global system partners. On a comparable basis, currency unfavorably impacted this quarter's operating income by 4%, which was 3 points better than the outlook we provided during our last earnings call.

The difference between the outlook we provided and the actual currency impact was primarily due to a new provision in Venezuela that imposed a maximum threshold for profit margins, and decreased our bolivar-denominated revenue and profit. The new provision resulted in an approximate $0.01 drag on comparable EPS in the second quarter, which was partially offset by the impact of slight improvement in other currencies compared to our previous expectations. Despite a difficult operating environment in Venezuela, the Coca-Cola system remains committed to the market, and will continue producing and selling our products that Venezuelan consumers enjoy on a daily basis.

We also benefited in the quarter from lowering our underlying effective tax rate from 23% to 22.5% for the full year.

Cash generated from operating activities was a strong $4.5 billion in the first half of the year, and we continue to make capital deployment decisions based on a consistent and disciplined framework, as we have outlined before. First, we reinvest in the Business, which includes making the necessary investments to strengthen our brand, and includes capital investments, which we expect to be roughly $2.5 billion for the year. Second, we reward our shareowners by paying a healthy dividend, which we have increased annually for more than half a century.

Next, we evaluate opportunities to grow through acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures. We view these as enablers to help accelerate growth and create value in a capital-efficient manner. Lastly, we repurchase shares. Year to date, our net share repurchases totaled $1.3 billion, and we are on track for net share repurchases in the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for the full year.

As we look ahead to the second half of 2014, let me take a minute to update you on a few outlook items as you model our Business. We previously communicated that we expected structural items to unfavorably impact the first half of the year as we cycle the deconsolidation of certain bottling operations in 2013. However, we now expect structural items, including Venezuela, to be a 1- to 2-point drag on net revenue growth, and an approximate 3-point drag on operating income growth during the second half of 2014. The refranchise territories in North America had a nominal impact on our comparable results in the second quarter, and are not expected to have a meaningful impact over the balance of the year.

After considering our hedge positions, current spot rates and the cycling of our prior-year rates, we expect a 3-point currency headwind at operating income during the second half of 2014, with a relatively similar impact on both the third and fourth quarters. And we now expect a currency headwind in the 5- to 6-point range at operating income for the full year. This is an improvement compared to the previous outlook we provided, primarily due to the decrease in bolivar-denominated revenue and profit.

After taking into consideration all of these factors, we expect the impact of structural items, net of the benefit from the change in our underlying effective tax rate, to be a $0.02 drag on comparable EPS during the second half of the year. Finally, we continue to expect operating leverage on a currency-neutral basis to be even to slightly positive for the full year.

In closing, we delivered sound financial performance in the first half of 2014, and we expect to continue our sound financial performance over the remainder of the year. And I believe our Company and our global system are well positioned to capitalize on the opportunities within our great industry.

Operator, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Muhtar, if I look at your second-quarter performance buying growth of 3%, sequential improvement versus Q1, global price mix held steady at 2%. I guess second quarter also though benefited in part because of easy comp, and you had the Easter benefit. So can you talk about your ability to sustain the top line momentum as you look at the back half of the year and be mindful of some of the macroeconomic conditions that you see in the marketplace?

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Judy. Again, just to quickly go through the quarter, as you said, volume was up 3%, sparkling volume really importantly was up 2%, and brand Coca-Cola up globally in North America. Those are really three important points.

Also, another quarter of value market share gains, I think more than 25 consecutive -- 28 to be exact -- consecutive quarters of gaining value share. You see us having at, with our system, very clear focus on priorities. We had our entire global bottling system get together with us a couple -- a few months ago, and again a recommitment to the focus on our priorities.

Sequential improvement in a lot of large markets, particularly Europe, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Spain. And good results, very strong results out of Eurasia and Africa and improving in Nigeria, South Africa, Turkey, improvement again if you take Asia-Pacific. Again very strong quarter in China as well as in India, double-digit growth in India, Thailand again saw --.

So if you take all of those margins that are improving, gross margin has improved in the quarter compared to the prior year. Clear path on North America franchising. Strong belief that what we're doing is working in our system, is really important. Good bottler alignment. Yes, there are a few exceptions, but there always have been and will be, and more work to be done.

I am the first to say we operate in a very volatile global environment, both politically and economically. China is slowing down is impacting many commodity exporting countries and from Africa to Latin America. But overall, what we're doing is working: more marketing through productivity gains, better marketing.

We mentioned Share a Coke program in over 80 markets, tremendous leverage on our World Cup program in more than 170 markets with probably the biggest activation that we have ever had. And all this will not generally have an impact on the quarter that you spend in. It comes in after with better incidence, better brand loyalty, better purchasing time that we're all seeing.

What is happening in North America in terms of sparkling price mix also, you can see that we have a very disciplined approach both in the United States and globally where we have been able to achieve a 2% price mix on a global basis. And yes, there was Easter shift, but at the same time, our gallon shipments were below our unit case volume for the quarter. And if you say that would be a -- neutralize the benefit that we may have got from Easter, then I think overall we feel pretty confident with, again, the caveat that we need to do a lot more work and continue to do a lot more work, more focus, better execution.

But the five priorities are working, and early shoots, green shoots. And we expect that the balance of the year, as I mentioned in my script, that we should be able to fall within the corridor of the long-term growth targets.

And again, there may be issues along the way, bumps along the way. But the most important thing is that we are resolutely focused on continuing to build momentum here.

JUDY HONG: Okay, that is helpful. If I can just quickly follow up on North American pricing, particularly in the sparkling side, where you've got the 3% in the quarter. Maybe a little bit more details around the drivers of that, whether it was -- how much was mixed versus rate -- and your views on whether you can sustain that pricing and maybe even see acceleration if you look up the next --

MUHTAR KENT: I will say a few things and pass it over to Sandy, but all I will say is take note of the fact that a very big portion, percentage, 60% to be exact, of the growth came from smaller packages. That is obviously an enhancement of the mix driving revenue, but also rate.

So, I will ask Sandy and then maybe Irial if he has any commentary on North America, but we are operating with tremendous diligence and the discipline in the marketplace. And success for us is a combination of both the growth that we have on the volume, but importantly also growth in transactions which is a really good litmus test of the success of the business that is coming more into play each day as we progress. Sandy?

SANDY DOUGLAS, SVP, GLOBAL CHIEF CUSTOMER OFFICER AND PRESIDENT COCA-COLA NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar; hello, Judy.

We said at the beginning of the year that our focus in North America was going to be a disciplined combination of volume and price and that we would see that as a strategic priority. And the second quarter really reflects that; 3% price mix on sparkling while achieving volume growth on Coke. And Muhtar mentioned the importance of smaller packages in driving that outcome. It is also important in driving growth because consumers want more smaller packages, and we've been working on developing that as a part of our overall strategy.

So lots of discipline. As we look ahead, we are lapping some very promotional activity in the third quarter of last year, and our discipline will remain. And the bottlers in the Company around the country are focusing on marketing and selling our way through and maintaining an extraordinary amount of discipline on pricing, and we are optimistic that we will be able to hold that strategy.

IRIAL FINAN, EVP AND PRESIDENT BOTTLING INVESTMENTS GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes, it is Irial. All I can add is really repeat what Sandy said, and I have said in the last three calls now, which is we really are focused on building a long-term sustainable business. That is mixing pricing and volume and transactions in a very balanced way and coming up with a great result for our Company. And we will do that, and we continue to do it.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, the only thing I would add here also, Judy, is that I think we see a path forward to being able to build more romance with the brand through smaller packages. And that is really an important element in what is also being discussed.

JUDY HONG: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan Chase & Co.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, good morning. Just wanted to get a clarification if I could, when you talk about the $0.02 impact, you mentioned it was comparable EPS, but it sounds like that is reported EPS, as well. Is that correct?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Kathy?

KATHY WALLER: Hi John, and thanks for the question.

The Venezuela impact, yes, that is a two penny drag on a comparable EPS, as well as reported EPS. So if you look at Venezuela, you take it in two pieces; there is currency impact as well as impact of the provision. The provision is less bolivar nominated revenue because of capital margins, and it is gone straight to the bottom line. And then the FX is, the impact is because, as well, we do not have as much bolivar-denominated revenue in income. So you could split those two pieces, and yes, it is comparable, as well as as reported.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay great, thank you.

Kathy, if I could just follow-up, we are continuing to see weaker volumes in some of the higher-margin regions, like Latin America or Europe, what have you. So can you talk a little bit in terms of how you're going to look at--how should we think about margins going forward if these types of -- this type of relative weakness in some of these higher margin market continues, particularly Latin America which is your highest market region, and it's been a little bit softer over the last couple of quarters.

KATHY WALLER: So I would split the question into two, and Ahmet will help answer with it, but the margins in Latin America have been impacted this quarter by the Venezuela provision. And then when you look at ongoing buying growth in contribution into the Company, I will let Ahmet --

AHMET BOZER, EVP AND PRESIDENT COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: John, a couple of points. The rest of Latin America, the margin and the growth in profitability overall is in a good direction. No important issues there. Also keep in mind that we've been able to realize positive price mix in high-margin places like Europe, and we have been able to grow in Japan, so we are able to balance across the international territory to have positive price mix and margins.

JOHN FAUCHER: Yes, okay, great.

MUHTAR KENT: John, just to add, I think yes, you are right in saying that Latin America has slowed down to where it traditionally has been. And we have seen these cyclical slowdowns in Latin America.

And as some parts will get better, I think, starting towards the end of the year, we also see some other volatility, continued volatility in like Argentina and other markets. But overall, I think for most of what we are cycling as well, we expect major markets in Latin America to have some sequential improvement in the second half of this year. And then overall longer-term, we feel very confident also about what is lying ahead in Latin America.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, BofA Merrill Lynch.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.

Kathy, I wanted to follow up on John's question relative to leverage and I have two parts to it. One, I think I caught in the prepared comments that you mentioned that on a comparable currency neutral basis, you would expect some leverage in the second half. So I am just trying to make sure I heard that correctly in that we should be thinking about ex the Venezuela impact and ex the structural change in currencies, there would be currency neutral operating profit growth.

And then second question, if I have done the calculations correctly, it looks like on a comparable basis currency neutral gross margins in the quarter were up. So if you could just talk a little bit A, is that true? And B, if you could talk a little bit about how you would expect gross margin to evolve going forward, what type of inflation you are seeing and just how what factors you might see driving gross margins in the second half.

KATHY WALLER: Okay, hi Brian, thanks for your question.

Our outlook for leverage in the currency neutral basis remains flat to slightly positive. When you think about gross margins, so gross margins have improved for the second quarter and year-to-date. And when we look at -- when we look at our margins for the back half of the year, we delivered sound financial results, and we anticipate that we will continue to deliver sound financial results for the rest of the quarter -- for the back half of the year. And we do anticipate that margins will continue to in the same way they have been in the first half of the year.

BRYAN SPILLANE: So there was nothing unusual about the gross margins in the first half? We could potentially see more progress on gross margins and we're just spending more money back which is what is getting the leverage to slightly flat. Is that a good way to think about it?

KATHY WALLER: Yes, we are continuing to invest behind our brands. So yes, that is part of the leverage story. But that is causing the North America from negative -- slight negative leverage in North America because we are spending behind our brand. So, we are getting pricing and we are committed to rational pricing, so we're getting pricing which is helping us with the margins the gross margin, but we are continuing to invest behind our brands.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Just add to that, Bryan, if you look at the second quarter compared to the first quarter, marketing is substantially higher in the second quarter than it is in the first quarter, and particularly towards the back end of the second quarter, substantially higher. So, that explains some of the things again, what Kathy was saying, but also our productivity is on target. It has been on target for the first half of the year and will be on target for the second half.

OPERATOR: Michael Steib, Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning.

Can I ask a couple of questions, couple of specific questions on Latin America? First on Brazil, given all of the investments you made in the market and the World Cup, I was just wondering why volume performance was not stronger in the quarter.

You mentioned in the release a tough macro environment and some competitive activity, but I was hoping you could give us a bit more detail. And second, with regards to Mexico, I know you've taken all of the pricing related to the tax increase early in the year, but have you also passed on pricing now for general inflation in the country?

Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes Michael, it is Muhtar here, and I will ask Ahmet to provide additional commentary.

Think of Brazil as having a very tough macro environment in the first half. So if you look at the entire consumer disposable and non-disposable consumer goods sectors, we are under tremendous duress in the first half of the year, particularly leading up to -- particularly -- more so in the second quarter.

Think of it this way -- had it not been, the result would not have been what it would've been had we not done all that activity. So from that perspective, I think we see brand getting stronger, incidents and purchase intent getting stronger in Brazil as a result of all the activity, and I think that should benefit us going forward in Brazil.

So certainly the macro environment in Brazil, as you can read, as we can all see, has been very challenging. And so given that backdrop, I think, our results -- we're content with where we are, and we believe that what we have done will benefit us in the second half and going forward. In terms of Mexico, I think both times prices were adjusted, they included a certain portion for also inflation, so take it as that. But again, I will ask Ahmet to provide any further commentary for both Brazil and Mexico.

AHMET BOZER: Thanks Muhtar.

On Brazil, the only thing I would add Michael is that we had a pricing packaging architecture which allows us to have different tax both for immediate and future consumption at different price points, and we are executing those with great discipline. And that in fact is helping us navigate this challenging external environment.

And we expect that to continue to bear fruits in the third and fourth quarters along with the strong marketing programs we have. With respect to Mexico, the only other thing I would add is that we do have a not just passing the tax and the inflation, but a consumer-driven pricing approach which has been very carefully calculated, and the elasticity that we have calculated in reality are happening better than that we have expected. So in other words, our Mexican business is showing more resilience in this area.

OPERATOR: Mark Swartzberg, Stifel Nicolaus

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, good morning gentlemen, hello Kathy. Muhtar, as you think about the sparkling global outlook and your efforts to build on where you are here in the second quarter, is it fair to think your emphasis will continue to be on volume share gains more so than dollar share gains, or do you think there is potential for more dollar share growth in spite of the volumes being a little below what you were hoping for?

MUHTAR KENT: I think success for us is certainly continuing our value share gains. You cannot obviously -- only value share gains without volume is not sustainable over the long term, but we have a very disciplined approach just like in North America, also for our international business related to more smaller packaging.

So the mix will benefit us, but also very importantly it is critical for us to achieve price mix on a global scale. Different geographies will again price differently into the picture. We have such disparate pricing per case depending on the geography we're talking about, so geographic mix is an important piece of this, as is package mix, as is rate.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Obviously, a lot of markets to talk about, and this call is not useful for going into many of them, but when you look at North America specifically and you see the 3% price mix on the carbonated and a bit of growth there on the stills, but you also have the flat volumes. And then data we look at is CPI for the larger carbonated space, which continues to be down, so retailers continue to promote the carbonated component of your business. How are you thinking about the opportunity for better value share performance in North America, given the volume share situation you are facing?

MUHTAR KENT: I will just say that once again, smaller size packs contributed significantly to, say, brand Coca-Cola volume and revenue growth into Q2 and year-to-date as a matter fact. So, if you take over 60% of the growth in brand Coca-Cola in Q2 was driven by double-digit growth in our mini can and 16-ounce immediate consumption packages, I think that is how I would like to leave you with -- that is what I would like to leave you with as an opportunity.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Got it, okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hello. If you would've predicted back in December that price mix in North America was going to be up as much and your volumes would've remained flat. And Latin America, you indicated volumes would've been flat even with all the Mexico tax issues, I think I would've said you are being optimistic, but that is what you are delivering, which is good.

But it does raise two questions for me. One is, it is concentrated your volume growth in only two of your six reporting segments. I want to get a better sense of how comfortable you are with those two currently and your expansion of volume growth in the other segments, like what gives you confidence that the others can grow, as well? And then secondly, a question about the mix between volume and price mix, which if you look over the past 10 years, it is mainly driven by volume, obviously pricing now much more balanced.

Some try to understand how much of that is actually a change in strategic intensity that you described versus just FX driving you to raise more pricing? If you can help those two, that would be great in the broader volume context.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes I will take the last first. The strategy is driven by what consumers want, and that is not just a phenomenon for the United States but smaller packages are a key focus. So that helps the mix. That helps the revenue. That helps also the price mix.

Then, couple that with a very disciplined approach towards also having the right balance between value and volume share gains. And so it is really important.

In terms of concentration of volume growth, I think the important thing is for you to focus on the improvements from quarter to quarter. If you take key geographies like Europe, France had an improvement, Germany had an improvement, Great Britain had a significant improvement.

Italy had a significant improvement, Spain had a significant improvement, and Europe overall had a huge improvement when you look at total. And again, this is just pure simply for volume, and if you look at pricing earnings, you will get also a similar picture.

So I think focus on the sequential improvements. Focus on us delivering on our focused priorities. And so what I see is that we will strive, and diligently strive to continue with sequential improvement, building momentum as we go forward. And I also mentioned as an answer to a previous question that I thought that in Latin America, we would also see sequential improvement.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay, thanks.

And one other things you've been asked a bunch on this conference call is about margin and margin mix. And one of the things obviously that can offset margin pressures is incremental cost cutting. And you talk a little bit more about how you view incremental cost cutting versus what you've announced so far, what you think the potential is, and when you think we might hear more about more cost-cutting at the Company?

MUHTAR KENT: Well we announced significant cost cuts over the last four or five years, different programs. And as I mentioned earlier, again we are on target with our productivity. And that productivity is being reinvested to drive growth.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay thanks.

OPERATOR: Steve Powers, UBS.

STEVE POWERS, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks.

Maybe building on that and focusing back on North America, as you talked about, you had good price mix realization in sparkling, 3%, and you did see margin grow in the quarter which is great. But overall, we only saw 1% price mix, and year-to-date margins remained slightly below last year's level in the US based on my math.

So as I think about the path towards refranchisement and smoothing that path, it seems a greater profitability is a great enabler of that. What needs to be done? Is there a way to get even more aggressive on price mix realization or to Ali's point pushing on productivity more to get the North American profit pool to expand to facilitate entry of new partners?

Thanks.

AHMET BOZER: I will talk about a couple of levers, and then ask Irial to join me. The growth and profitability in North America, the major opportunity exists in pricing and the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the system.

We talked about price as a lever and an area of discipline and focused, and price is achieved through rate as you know, and also mix. And a whole lot of innovation is going on inside of packaging to give consumers what they want and to earn a return as a result of that.

Couple that with our overall system architecture work, which Muhtar described earlier which is on track as we overhaul IT, product supply, as we overhaul customer management and shared services. And the refranchising progress which is on track with our bottlers, will create a system that is on one hand more effective and grows faster and on another level is more efficient at generating better margins.

But at the end of the day, that combination needs to be built on accelerating growth. And the focus of the near-term has been to reinvest the proceeds into marketing to rebuild brand momentum and brand momentum at price point. We're optimistic about the progress, but we have a lot more work to do.

IRIAL FINAN: Yes, the only add I would give is [we're in] to the bottling houses, we remain absolutely committed to deliver one of our core priorities, which is excellence and execution in the marketplace. And as every day goes by, I get more comfortable that we are starting to do things better every day, every time we go to an outlet.

And fundamentally that is the other piece that gives us the capability to get extra price and mix in the marketplace, and we will continue to do that. And it is a journey. It is not turning the light switch on. It happens day by day, weak by weak, month by month.

I feel pretty good that over the next number of years, our capability in the marketplace, married with great marketing, is going to deliver the price mix we all desire. And that is why the discipline in remaining focused on price mix married with transaction growth and married with volume is why we feel confident about the North American business over the long-term.

STEVE POWERS: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Can you just comment about some of the market share losses in Mexico, Brazil, and then a much smaller market in the UK?

So what do you think is driving that? And then when you think some of those trends will reverse.

Because some of these losses are substantial. I think it was a little over a point of value share and scan channels loss in Brazil, about a point in Mexico and then similar trends in the UK.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes Bill, I think in the UK most of that loss was in Q1. If you look at Q2, we have had sequential improvement in the UK. And we expect that going forward in both Mexico and in Brazil that more minor losses to the B brands and local players will reverse themselves in the course of the year.

And we already see that happening in both markets. I think that was the difficult operating environment in Brazil in terms of also us having discipline in our pricing, and the same goes for also Mexico.

BILL SCHMITZ: Got you. So you think your losses are really a function of maybe the more aggressive pricing you took and maybe as that stabilizes this year --.

MUHTAR KENT: And very transitory.

BILL SCHMITZ: Okay great, I appreciate that. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Nik Modi, RBC Capital Markets.

NIK MODI, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, everyone.

Quick question I had is, if you think about the quarter and how trends move through the quarter, I am just curious if you actually saw correlation with the higher level of spending as the quarter progressed and your volume growth. Just again trying to understand if the spending is actually working. And when you think about the ROI in that spend, what discrete things and specific things is Coke doing to make sure there is a glide path to getting a better return out of that spend. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, two things. Spending increased as we moved through the quarter, and there was much more spending at the end of the quarter than there was at the beginning of the quarter. And therefore you would expect that not all of that benefit is going to flow, obviously, into the quarter. And this is again about generating long-term sustainable momentum, which we believe is happening.

Again I want to remind everyone that I am pleased with these results in a difficult operating environment. And to get growth back into sparkling is a significant achievement, to get growth back into Coca-Cola in the world globally and in the United States is a significant achievement, and we will continue to focus on where we need to be quarter after quarter, one quarter at a time. I just want to say that I believe our approach is working.

OPERATOR: Kevin Grundy, Jefferies.

KEVIN GRUNDY, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks for the question.

First Muhtar, you talked about increasing or broadening your product portfolio. So, maybe without tipping your hand too much, what would be the top of your wish list by product and geography, and do you still feel comfortable with your energy drink strategy?

And then separately, Kathy, now that you bring a fresh look here, do you plan on doing anything differently from a capital structure perspective? And I say that within the context that there is an argument to be made that Coke is under leveraging and could potentially add leverage, or by adding leverage could add value to shareholders. And we have seen a number of companies in the CPG space that have been rewarded by the market for such action, so any thoughts there would be appreciated.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Kevin.

Obviously, I cannot walk you through a wish list; that would be too much information to the whole market and everyone that plays in the market. But I would say our portfolio is really very rich, as you saw as from our $17 billion brand and so many more in the pipeline.

And again, our sparkling brands have really performed well on a global basis. Sprite and Fanta and Schweppes in addition to Coca-Cola. So, all of that tells me that what we're doing in different brands and creating more incidents, more transactions is working.

And you heard the numbers that I mentioned in tea both in the US and globally, in premium waters, in juice and juice drinks, in sports drinks, all of that. We are pleased with a much richer portfolio than we had, say, three years ago. And that portfolio is again yielding very good results, particularly, also, Simply in the juice category, [Dasani], Innocent, all those different brands. Del Valle across the world yielding very good results, and also in China too, and southeast Asia with new innovations that are really working well for us in both the fusion of dairy and juice, as well as pulpy drinks and also juice and juice drinks.

KATHY WALLER: And on the second part of your question, yes, I believe the Company has always been very focused on driving long-term sustainable growth. And we have done that in a very consistent and disciplined way. We are very focused on reinvesting in the business and to accelerate growth and create value. I believe we focus on making sure we have share repurchase and we do give a healthy dividend back, but we will continue basically like we've been going with focusing on driving long-term growth.

KEVIN GRUNDY: So no real change on that front? Okay, very good, thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you Kathy, Ahmet, Sandy, Irial and Jackson. The performance year to date, progress against each of our strategic priorities and the positive signs that we are seeing in many global markets all illustrate our view that the 2020 vision and strategic plans are solid.

Proof points are out there. 3% growth in the quarter, global price mix of 2%, increased global media spending reflecting our confidence in building on the strength of our brands and also in our ability to engage our consumers and customers effectively, and global year-to-date value share growth in our categories.

And so we are winning in the vibrant beverage industry and also coupled with sound financial performance during the first half of the year. So we're making steady progress. And we are where we are expected to be at this stage in the year.

I look forward to providing all of you with additional updates as we continue to restore our global momentum in the months ahead. Thank you for your time this morning and for your continued interest and trust in the Coca-Cola Company.

OPERATOR: Thank you, and this does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140724ea7m001p5
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,572 words
   PD
15 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2014 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I now would like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP OF IR, THE COCA-COLA CO: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I am joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, who as you know has elected to retire next month, as well as Kathy Waller who will be recommended for the role of CFO at next week's Board meeting. Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over to you for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Customer Officer and President of Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan, Executive Vice and President and President of Bottling Investments and Supply Chain will also be available for the Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release, and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC reports. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the financial reports and information tab in the investors Section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now I will turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. I appreciate your joining us for an update on our first quarter performance. As you know, we started 2014 with a clear objective of restoring the momentum of our global business. This morning, I am pleased to report that our growth momentum is improving in line with our expectations.

In the midst of continued headwinds, we achieved sequentially stronger 2% volume cycling, 4% volume growth in the prior-year quarter, despite the shift of the Easter holiday into the second quarter of this year, comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 2% after excluding the impact of structural items, growth of an incremental 100 million unit cases or the equivalent of 27 million incremental servings per each day, and both volume and value share gains in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, with value share gains ahead of volume share gains.

These top line results underscore our system's ability to leverage our occasion brand price pack channel architecture across our entire portfolio of leading brands. They are also a reflection of our ability to drive performance, improved incidents, and simultaneously enhance price mix which increased 2% globally in the quarter. And we increased our marketing investments while decreasing other SG&A costs, consistent with our commitment to identify savings opportunities, and to increase support for our brands.

From a geographic perspective, volume in our developed markets was down 1%, however, volume grew in key developed markets including Japan and Australia, while volume in North America was even. Importantly, volume grew 3% in our developing and emerging markets, with China up 12% and Brazil up 4%. Both India and Russia also grew volume in the mid single-digit range, while gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink volume and value share.

We remain steadfastly focused on the five strategic priorities we announced on our fourth quarter earnings call, and later which I outlined at CAGNY. As a reminder, those five strategic priorities are as follows. Firstly, to accelerate sparkling growth led by Coca-Cola, strategically expand our portfolio -- profitable stills portfolio. Thirdly, increase brand investments by maximizing productivity. Fourth, win at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our system. And last but not least, invest in our next generation of leaders.

I will devote the majority of my remarks today to talking about these strategies, and the progress we are making in restoring our momentum. As usual, you will find further operating group performance details in our earnings press release issued earlier this morning. These five important strategic priorities serve as a means to further sharpen our focus. They also serve as beacons to collectively align the efforts of our more than 700,000 system associates all around the world.

Now beginning with our first priority, we are determined to accelerate sparkling beverage growth led by Coca-Cola, and we have established comprehensive strategies to do so. The foundation of this plan is to invest in, and deliver great marketing to support our sparkling brands. We are adding a sharpened focus with our bottling partners to increase sparkling brand penetration, as well as cold drink availability.

We are overlaying disciplined occasion brand price pack channel strategies, supported by revenue growth management capabilities to drive sustained value growth. We are continuously innovating to meet evolving consumer needs. And also, we are engaging with partners and stakeholders to promote trust and to address category misperceptions. These strategies to accelerate sparkling growth are solid, and we expect to see improving results throughout the year.

Highlights of actions we took in this past quarter include a terrific Sochi Olympics campaign executed across all over Russia, supported by solid trade activations that resulted in 7% sparkling volume growth, and 9% brand Coca-Cola growth, the 17th consecutive quarter of growth for brand Coke. A successful recruitment strategy in China, where immediate consumption packs drove sparkling volume growth of 6%, brand Coke growth of 3%, and transaction growth of 10%, and ongoing sparkling innovation in Japan that contributed to 3% sparkling growth in the first quarter.

We clearly see growth potential in the sparkling category. And along with our system partners, we are investing in the wide-ranging sparkling innovation, world-class marketing, and unparalleled local execution to satisfy our consumers' thirst for refreshment. It is still early in our journey to restore sparkling momentum, yet we are tenaciously focused on building and improving upon this quarter's performance.

This is underscored by the programs and the marketing campaigns that are already underway in the second quarter, like our FIFA World Cup campaign that has 175 countries participating, the broadest reach of any campaign in Coca-Cola's history. We are happy to share that the FIFA World Cup Trophy tour is visiting the United States this week, with stops in Washington, DC yesterday, Miami today, and Atlanta and LA later in the week. From here, the FIFA World Cup Trophy tour is heading to Brazil, on the final leg of its 90 country journey. The activation of this exciting global property, coupled with initiatives such as our Share a Coke program with individualized personalized Coca-Cola bottles and cans, continued support and innovation on Sprite and Fanta, and a wide range of new package introductions across our entire sparkling portfolio is going to bring excitement and engagement to our sparkling brands all around the world.

Moving now to our second priority, to strategically expand our profitable still beverage portfolio. Our still beverage brands account for approximately a quarter of our total global volume currently. Today we are the global value leader in still beverages, with $11 billion still brands, more than any of our competitors. In the first quarter of this year, our still beverage volume grew 8%, while gaining both volume and value share. Given our leadership position in the industry, we are keenly focused on working with our global system partners to build strong, profitable and competitively advantaged brands in fast-growing and profitable still beverage categories.

We are building on our leading juice and juice drink portfolio, growing volume 3% in the quarter. This was fueled by exceptional black brands like Simply, which grew double-digits in North America, and Minute Maid Pulpy which grew 8% in China. This also marks our ninth consecutive quarter of value share gains in juice and juice drinks.

Our global still -- our global tea portfolio grew 4%, as we delivered double-digit growth across Honest and Gold Peak in North America, as well as Ayataka and Sokenbicha in China -- in Japan, I beg your pardon. This resulted in the 10th consecutive quarter of global ready-to-drink value share gains in tea.

We are leveraging our packaging leadership to expand our plant bottle and crushable bottle packaging, creating an important point of value differentiation for brands ranging from Dasani in North America to I LOHAS in Japan. And we are developing a new profit-enhancing beverage drop platform that now includes the Dasani, Powerade, Minute Maid and [our] Vitaminwater brands. As you will note, we continue to innovate across our still portfolio to further drive and enhance our leading position.

Our third strategic priority is to increase brand investments by maximizing productivity. On the brand side, and as announced earlier this year, we will grow our investments by $400 million in 2014, and by $1 billion by 2016. We began to ramp up our investments in the first quarter to support robust marketing programs like our Sochi Winter Olympics campaign across multiple markets.

We are also increasing our media investment and quality in North America, as evidenced by our Super Bowl ads, It's Beautiful and Going All the Way. In Latin America, the first of our operating groups to launch the FIFA World Cup activation, viral marketing efforts targeting millennials included short films that have already exceeded 10 million views on YouTube.

And also, our worldwide marketing team is collaborating with our partners to deliver enhanced consumer experiences. A couple of examples that leverage new technology platforms include Misfit Wearables which produces the Shine fitness tracker, and Spotify, the world's leading on-demand music streaming service. Our strategic partnerships with these two companies in which we have made minority equity investments, will enable us to forge even more meaningful connections with our consumers.

And while it is too early to speak to results from our increased level of investment, we are confident in our plans and approach, which is based on robust analytics across our top markets. The insights from this analysis have equipped us with the necessary information to prioritize both the quantity and quality of our investments across markets, across brands, and across media channels.

With regards to productivity, we are diligently seeking, identifying and securing efficiencies across all parts of the business. This effort is focused on standardizing and streamlining our processes, while also clarifying roles and accountabilities. Let me just provide you with three examples of how we are doing this across North America.

We have instituted an ownership cost management focus, thanks to which our associates are identifying and delivering significant savings. Second, about 50% of our plants in North America have completed an operational excellence diagnostic, with the remainder scheduled to do so by 2015. This is resulting in savings of approximately $1 million for each location. And following each implementation, the focus on year-over-year productivity continues. And third, in our warehouse and delivery operations, we have focused on our layout and process standardization.

Thanks to initiatives ranging from realtime data transfer to smart selling, we can now optimize warehouse capacity, work more efficiently, and reduce out-of-stocks. These are just a few examples of the productivity work that we are doing to identify and extract savings that will be redeployed and reinvested to drive long-term growth.

We have also made progress on our fourth priority, which is to win at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our system. Our focus on winning at the point-of-sale is not new. What is new is the increased emphasis on flawless execution across our system. This includes an accelerated focus on capturing new outlook, and greater alignment in the execution of new brand and package launches.

We are also intent on exceeding our right execution daily or RED target, and ensuring that our products are well-placed, as well as merchandised to optimize our sales. This fourth priority emphasizes the importance of capability building and collaboration on all front lines, where our sales associates, drivers, merchandisers are often the final link in ensuring that our Coca-Cola and all our brands are always within an arm's reach of desire.

The first quarter, we saw many concrete examples of how, together with our bottling partners, we are winning at the point-of-sale, including: excellent execution of our Sochi marketing campaign leading to significant share gains across almost all beverage categories in Russia; occasion brand price pack channel architecture changes in many countries including a significant focus on immediate consumption pack introductions, leading to immediate consumption volume growth ahead of future consumption growth; and an improved RED penetration and scores. Right execution daily now covers approximately 40% of our volume, an increase of about 3 points over the past year. And our FIFA World Cup Trophy tour program has now reached 90 countries, where our bottling partners have activated the program in 400,000 retail outlets.

Importantly, the partnership required to win at the point-of-sale extends beyond our bottling partners to include our customers, the more than 24 million retail outlets that we proudly visit on a weekly basis. We are continuously collaborating with our customers to identify ways to add value to their business.

Our fifth and final priority is to invest in our next generation of leaders, both here in the US and all across the world. In this context, I want to remind everyone that today is Gary's last quarterly earnings call, and I want to commend and acknowledge him on an outstanding 14 years as the Coca-Cola Company's CFO. We sincerely thank Gary for his many years of outstanding leadership service, his steady focus, countless insights, and the enormous value he has helped to generate for our Company and all of our shareowners. Collectively, he and his finance leadership team have carried out a thoughtful and purposeful transition.

I am going to recommend that our Board elect Kathy Waller as our new CFO next week, and this is a great example of the talented and experienced bench strength that we are building with our next generation of talented leaders. I hope all of you welcome Kathy to the role of Chief Financial Officer.

As our fifth priority outlines, we are committed to investing in our next-generation of leaders across all levels of the Coca-Cola Company and Coca-Cola system. So as you can see, we are making progress across each of these critical strategic priorities, and I look forward to providing you with further updates as we progress throughout this year.

Now let me address a couple of other topics across our operating groups. First, there is the question of profitability in North America, where comparable currency neutral operating income declined 8% in the quarter. This decline was largely due to the impact of one less selling day, and the shift of Easter into the second quarter. We have been encouraged by the results of targeted marketing efforts in several North American markets in recent months, and we are excited about the trends that we are seeing.

Enhanced marketing and disciplined retail pricing strategies in North America resulted in volume that was even for the brand Coca-Cola. At the same time, we achieved a 2% increase in sparkling price mix. We also gained sparkling value share ahead of volume share, making this our16th consecutive quarter of value share gains.

Our priorities in North America remain very clear. As we shared in our year-end call, our focus remains on building strong brands, creating customer value and enhancing our capabilities. We are streamlining the way we work, and identifying ways to operate more effectively and efficiently in our sales, warehouse and delivery operations.

I also want to speak to our results in Europe where our volume was down 4%, as our business was adversely impacted due to the Easter shift, and by ongoing macroeconomic challenges. Volume in France increased 4%, and volume in Germany was even with prior year. During the quarter, our Europe group realized 10 points of price mix, thanks to the consolidation of Innocent, and to a broad focus on earnings price -- earning price across our business units in Europe.

We seek to continuously earn price mix by balancing disciplined pricing with packaging changes. A recent example of this is the transition from a straight wall 2 liter to a contoured 1.75-liter at the same price in Great Britain at the end of the first quarter. As we look ahead, we are cautiously optimistic about our outlook in Europe, despite the continuing volatile operating environment. The strong and integrated program that we have developed, together with our bottling partners fuel this optimism.

These initiatives will help us leverage our marketing assets, implement critical innovative packaging and dispensing initiatives, and execute impactful marketing programs during the year to come. A number of these initiatives in Europe began in the first quarter, including the FIFA World Cup promotions and three-time World Cup winner Germany offering our Coke Zero customers a chance to win one of the 200 tickets to Brazil, a new Fanta marketing campaign, and [In and Out] flavors successfully launched in Austria, Switzerland, Romania and Hungary, as well as Cappy Pulpy's geographical expansion in the southern European belt. However, we see most of the benefit coming during the remainder of the year due to various factors such as the timing of Easter, the ramp-up in World Cup activations, as well as the timing and intensity of our marketing programs.

Before handing over the call to Gary, I want to also remind you about our recently announced partnership with Keurig Green Mountain which closed in the first quarter. We believe Keurig Green Mountain is the perfect strategic partner to collaborate with, to capitalize on the many opportunities we see available in the market, and we look forward to providing you with further updates later in the year.

As I complete my prepared remarks, I want to reinforce that there is much -- so much runway ahead of us, and the Coca-Cola system is well-positioned to capture more than our fair share of growth. This is a business that has barely tapped into its full potential. Globally, consumer populations are growing. Purchasing power is increasing and spreading to a new middle class. Urbanization continues to intensify, and lifestyles and consumer preferences are changing in ways that significantly favor our expanding and evolving beverage portfolio. We have an unparalleled reach with leading global brands, and a bottling system that is investing for sustainable growth.

Having said that, we do not take anything for granted. We fully understand that obtaining our 2020 vision will require more than just counting on industry growth. Indeed, it is up to all of us, up to our global system leaders, and up to each of our associates to make the right decisions, and to take the right actions that is going to enable us to seize the abundant opportunities that are before us. Gary will now provide you with some additional details on our first quarter financial performance.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. In the first quarter of this year, we began executing and delivering the strategic plan that we outlined and shared with you on our 2013 year-end call, and at the CAGNY and CAGE investor conferences earlier this year. Our clear and focused commitment remains on long-term value creation, and the strategic priorities which Muhtar just outlined today, and they are tailored to do just that. While much work remains to be done, we are confident in our strategies, and are fully committed to this plan as we firmly believe that the Coca-Cola company is a sustainable and great long-term growth business.

As mentioned, we grew unit case volume 2%, a sequential improvement from last quarter, and cycling 4% growth in the prior year. Global price mix increased by 2%, and we gained both volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in the first quarter, a constructive start towards restoring our momentum in 2014.

Comparable currency neutral net revenue grew 2% after excluding structural items, while concentrate sales were even with the prior year. We do expect concentrate sales and unit case sales to be in line for the full year. Comparable currency neutral operating income grew a solid 7% after excluding structural items, while also including an increase in marketing investments in support of our brands. Comparable currency neutral earnings per share grew 5%, with currency creating a 10 point headwind on comparable EPS. And for the math people in the room, you will notice a comparable EPS declined 4% implying a 9 point headwind. I just wanted to point out that the 10 point headwind is in the rounding.

We generated $1.1 billion in cash from operations, and our net share repurchases through the first quarter were $713 million. Our cash from operations increased significantly versus the prior year quarter, primarily because we made a large contribution to our pension plan in the first quarter of last year. Cash from operations also benefited from efficient management of working capital, and these benefits were partially offset by unfavorable exchange.

Because our largest pension plan is currently fully funded, I do not foresee any significant cash contributions to our pension plan in the near-term. As it relates to overall cash management, as we have discussed in the past, we follow disciplined guidelines for how we use our cash to create sustainable shareowner value.

First, we are reinvesting in the business to further strengthen the equity of our brands and to accelerate growth. This includes capital investments in new cooler placements, route to market enhancements, brand and packaging innovation, and marketing investments that include not only more marketing, but better quality marketing as well. Importantly, along with our increased investments, our bottling partners are also stepping up their investments thus further enhancing growth for their overall system.

Second, we continue to reward shareholders by paying a healthy dividend which is $1.22 per share this year, a 9% increase over last year. It is worth noting that we have increased our dividend every year for more than half a century. Third, we evaluate opportunities to grow through bolt-on acquisitions, strategic partnerships, and value added joint ventures when appropriate. Recent examples include the Keurig Green Mountain partnership, which opens up an exciting new packaging format for our brands, investments to further enhance our leading juice portfolio like Innocent and Rani, and investments that allow us to broaden our reach, like Zico and Core Power. And finally, we conduct meaningful, regular share repurchase.

As we look to the second quarter of 2014, we plan on continuing to execute our five strategic priorities, and our full-year plan remains firmly intact. First, let me address operating leverage. As you can see in our release, we achieved 4 points of operating expense leverage in the quarter, as we benefited from the timing of year-over-year expenses. Consistent with what we shared with you on our year-end 2013 call, our outlook for operating expense leverage for the full year 2014 has not changed. We expect to achieve even to slightly positive operating expense leverage for the full year as we increase brand investments.

Secondly, let me address the outlook for currencies. We now estimate, based on current spot rates and hedging, that currencies will have a 7 point headwind on operating income, both in the second quarter and for the full year. Our analysis reflects and includes the negative impact of the Venezuela currency devaluation, partly offset by improvements in other currencies as compared to the outlook we provided at the time of our year-end earnings release.

While we are very cautious in forecasting currency movements, we have managed through more than $2 billion of currency headwinds at the top line in the last two years, and as you know we anticipate significant currency headwinds for the remainder of this year. As we look further into the future, we think it is unlikely that we will have the same level of headwinds going forward.

Third, I would like to comment on structural change. As we have previously disclosed, the bottling transactions completed in 2013 are anticipated to have an unfavorable 1% structural impact on both our full-year 2014 revenues and operating income. As a reminder, this impact hits the first and second quarter results, as the Brazilian bottler transaction took place on July 3 of last year.

As Muhtar noted earlier, I have elected to retire next month after a very special and memorable 20 years at the Coca-Cola Company, and I want to congratulate Kathy Waller on being recommended to the Board for election as the Company's new CFO, and to reinforce my full confidence in her leadership in this position, given her 25 years at the Company. I have to say, as a retiring officer with this wonderful Company, it is comforting to know that I leave the CFO office in great hands, and that we have built a talented and deep finance leadership organization that will support both Kathy and Muhtar. It also gives me great comfort to look around this room this morning during our conference call with Muhtar, Irial, Ahmet, Sandy, Kathy and Jackson, and to think about the experience, focus and dedication of this Company's senior leadership. It has been a tremendous honor to serve as CFO of the Coca-Cola Company over the past 14 years, and I have greatly enjoyed building long-lasting relationships with all of you across our investment community.

In closing, I want to leave you with a few thoughts. First, I have every confidence in our ability to reignite sparkling growth, beginning with brand Coca-Cola. Second, we are continuing to build leadership positions in still beverages, much like we have done in the sparkling category since 1886. And third, our franchise system is not only the strongest it has ever been, but it also provides us with a global footprint and an invaluable local resource, all at the heart of a real value creation model. And lastly, there is nothing quite as refreshing as an ice-cold Coca-Cola.

So to all of you on this call, I sincerely thank you for your candor, your partnership, and your thoughtful questions over the last 14 years. And I encourage you to continue to reach out to the senior leadership team for meaningful dialogue on ways to further enhance our business, and to build long-term value for you and all of our shareowners. Operator, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

The first question today is from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, and congratulations again, Gary and Kathy.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you, Bill.

KATHY WALLER, VP OF FINANCE, CONTROLLER & INCOMING CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Bill.

BILL PECORIELLO: Muhtar, if you could talk about what gives you the confidence that Coke can hit its long-term growth algorithm in 2014 specifically? And also, when you look at the improving momentum here in the first quarter, how much would you attribute to any relief you are seeing in external headwinds versus the impact of the internal actions that you are taking? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Bill. Good morning. First let me say again, that I am pleased to report that our growth momentum is improving in line with our expectations. And in the midst of still -- continued volatility headwinds, achieving sequentially stronger 2% volume growth, that means delivering an incremental 100 million unit cases in the past 90 days or so. That means incrementally, every single day, an additional 27 million actual servings per each day. As the base grows, we are still very proud that we can continue to drive growth.

This is a quarter that is where Easter has shifted, where we were cycling 4% from prior year, whereas I said macro volatility continued, and where we had the harshest winter in northern hemisphere particularly in the US. We don't think this is a great result, but satisfying, as one step in the right direction to restore momentum. Germany, US was flat. In the past quarter, we think, given where -- what we went through and what economies and consumer and climate. Turkey was up 2%, Japan was up 3%. France was up 4%, Brazil was up 4%, India and Russia was up 6%. China was up 12%. These are -- these show, and give us the proof points that our actions are working.

And I think this is a quarter again where only a small fraction of our incremental marketing went -- was deployed. I would say probably around -- so 5% of our total incremental marketing for the year was deployed in this quarter. As we ramp up the quality and also quantity of our marketing, I believe that certainly we are going to drive better alignment. We have really good plans in place, fully aligned with our bottling partners. And I would be disappointed, as would be all my colleagues and associates, if we don't go back into the corridor of our long-term growth algorithm for volume growth.

But also importantly, we are driving not just volume growth, but we are driving immediate consumption growth. When you look -- which is really important for our business. When you look at -- say in this past quarter, of top five countries growing as -- China up 18% in IC growth. Indonesia up 9% in IC growth. Vietnam up 8%, Brazil up 5%.

These are really important numbers, because it is sustainable growth. It is profitable growth, and it is growth in transactions, which is directly married to the health of the brands, and the health of our portfolio. So from that perspective again, I want to just register cautious optimism that I feel we would be disappointed if we do not fall back into the corridor of our long-term growth algorithm for the remainder of the year, in terms of the volume growth picture, and also the other key metrics that follow on from there.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from Bryan Spillane with Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hello, good morning, and Gary and Kathy both, congratulations to both of you.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bryan.

BRYAN SPILLANE: So just wanted to drill in a little bit further on Latin America, and I guess, sort of three topics. One, in Mexico with volumes, the volume decline was a little bit less than we thought. So if you could talk about whether what we are seeing now is sort of the expected elasticity? Or if there is something else in the future that might change the elasticity, so has the consumer really seen the full effect of the pricing?

And then second, if you could talk a little bit about some of the drivers of price mix in the Latin America segment in the quarter, how much of it was driven by Venezuela? And then finally, just in terms of the Brazil comp being better sequentially, how much of that do you think is just that -- maybe the consumer is a little bit better? Was there anything specific that Coke did in the first quarter to drive that better performance in Brazil?

MUHTAR KENT: Bryan, good morning. Last question first on Brazil, I think Brazil was out the gate first, in terms of the FIFA World Cup activation, a lot of noise around that, a lot of activation in stores. And I think that certainly, we also see a little less malaise in terms of the macroeconomic environment. So and again, in terms of also the relationship between durables and nondurable consumer goods was a little bit more in favor for us.

So we feel that is going to continue, and that Brazil will have a better year. And I think the government is also aware of what they need to do, as they lead into one of the biggest events in their history, which is hosting a memorable event like the World Cup.

As far as Mexico is concerned, I think sparkling volume for us was sort of in the mid single-digits decline for the first quarter. The important thing here is that, because of the strength of our brand, because of also the incredible richness of our packaged portfolio, and our occasion brand price pack channel architecture, the strength of that in Mexico, we are seeing that we are gaining market share, versus both local competitors and our international competitor in Mexico as well. And that -- and again, we -- it is too early days related to Mexico. But I would say that we are again, executing with great precision and passion in Mexico with our great bottling partners.

And then, in terms of price mix, including a favorable geographic mix, other points came as the result of high inflation in local markets. And again, I will ask Gary to comment related to the Venezuela piece.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Bryan, Venezuela definitely contributed positively in the quarter to positive price mix. Now with going forward, that will no longer really be the case, because we have adjusted the -- as of the end of the quarter, we have adjusted the exchange rate and we will be using the [VEF]10.8 exchange rate going forward for most of the revenues, a large part of the revenues in Venezuela. So that will come down. But that impact is included in the latest currency forecast that I gave you. So again, some of the other currencies actually have improved from what we talked about in the February call, that offset now by Venezuela. So still at the same 7% impact.

BRYAN SPILLANE: As we're modeling price mix in Latin America, just going forward, there is some price mix in there that is positive excluding Venezuela? I guess, that is what I was after.

GARY FAYARD: Oh, yes. (Multiple Speakers). Definitely positive price mix going in there. And I think the other thing to point out, and Muhtar said it, I said it. But I think it is really important as you look at this quarter how we drove value share ahead of volume share. So we are definitely focused on rational pricing across the world, and getting -- earning price.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from John Faucher with JPMC.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you very much, and Gary, it has been great over the last 14 years. So best of luck, as you move forward, and Kathy, looking forward to working with you as well.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, John.

JOHN FAUCHER: Gary, I had to finish off with sort of one accounting question here. So you drove tremendous SG&A leverage in the quarter, and you talked a little bit about sort of how you haven't put a whole lot of marketing spend to work yet.

So can you walk us through maybe how we should think about the sales curve over the next couple of quarters, and what we should look for on the SG&A line as we look to model out the balance of the year? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Well, I will try John, and we will see how this goes. But basically, they are -- let's go to marketing first, and let's talk about it in two different ways. One is, how much of the marketing is actually in the market. And that is what Muhtar was referring to, how much is -- of the marketing is actually hitting the consumer, and a lot of our incremental spend actually has not hit the consumer yet. It will -- it is much more weighted, starting in the second quarter going through Q4. A lot of the first quarter really focused on getting the quality of our marketing up, and that sort of thing.

That is different from the way we account for marketing, and marketing as you referenced is on the sales curve. So on the sales curve, that incremental marketing is included in what we expensed in the first quarter. Now, then we get into the marketing that we are cycling quarter by quarter from last year. And so, it was an increase in marketing. In the first quarter, the increase will significantly grow during the year based on what we are cycling. That is part of why I said, that 4 points of operating leverage will go to even to slightly positive, and we are also benefiting from some other timing in the first quarter in just some of the OpEx expenses as well.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. And then, Muhtar, if I could ask you a follow-up question on -- you talked about the strength of the bottling system. And obviously, the equity income line is getting hit by FX, but we have seen some comments from Amatil, in terms of what is going on there. And then, also SAB talked about cutting some positions in their soft drink business.

Can you just talk a little bit about the mood of the bottlers and what they are seeing now? And how we should look at some of the headwinds they are facing in the shorter-term? And how that maybe will differ with what happens in the longer-term there? Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. I would say the mood is positive, in terms of their willingness to invest, their appetite for new territories. I have always -- you have heard me say this before in terms of litmus test for the health of the business. There is a lot of appetite for growing in -- horizontally in territory, and trying to get -- expand. And I think in terms of the quality of our marketing, in terms of the quantity of our marketing, I feel that based on all the bottlers that I have [priced] in this past quarter, I feel good.

I feel positive about the sentiment, both here in the United States, as we start our path to franchising, and as we look at how we expand and how we hasten the pace of franchising, but also across the world. I have recently have been with many bottling leaders, and talked to many of them. We have a global system meeting next month. Also, about 50 of the top bottlers get together with their CEOs and Chairmen, and we are there to further align our plans for 2015 and beyond. But I feel good related to the plans in place, related to everyone's desire to execute better and to invest more into the future.

And again, based on the investments that have gone into the marketplace, in the third and fourth quarter of last year. I feel -- that is why I feel confident that you are going to see us back into the corridor of the 3% to 4% long-term growth algorithm for the balance of the year, as we keep restoring momentum. So that is what I would say.

Do we have some pockets of challenges? You mentioned Coca-Cola Amatil. I feel, again, very cautiously optimistic as Alison Watkins assumes her new role there, and we are working very closely with her and her team. And again, we are very much aligned as to how we move forward with SAB Miller and their management team related to their nonalcoholic beverage business.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and I also echo my congratulations to Kathy. And Gary, it has been great. We will miss you.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you, Judy.

KATHY WALLER: Thank you.

JUDY HONG: So just wanted to maybe delve a little bit into Europe in the quarter. And the question, number one, just relating to Great Britain. Obviously, sparkling being down double-digits, if you can give us some context of trends that you have seen throughout the quarter? And sort of strip out some of the one-off factors with respect to the Easter timing, as well as some of the transition into the 1.75-liter packaging, and whether you are seeing some improvement there?

And then, just in terms of southern Europe, we are hearing more from some of the consumer companies that things are trending a little bit better in markets like Spain and Portugal. So maybe you can also just give us whether we are seeing a similar improvement for your business in that part of Europe?

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Judy. I will ask Ahmet to give you a response onto your question. Ahmet?

AHMET BOZER, EVP & PRESIDENT - COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL, THE COCA-COLA CO: Yes, thanks, Judy. Yes, the results obviously for Europe for the first quarter was less than what we would have desired, with the minus 4%. A lot of things came into play with that. You mentioned that Easter obviously, that was definitely a factor. And Muhtar has mentioned the transition into a new future consumption pack in GB.

I would add to that, that there was sort of a pricing activity in the marketplace on future consumption packs that had also had some impact. And we are in very close discussion and alignment with our bottlers to make sure that we actually sort of respond in a way that we maintain rational pricing in the marketplace, but also balance volume growth and value growth at the same time. So that was one.

You mentioned southern Europe. The slight improvement that everybody sees in Iberia and Spain, that we see as well. Our numbers had a bit of noise in it, with regards to the strike in our Iberian bottling partners that you all have heard about before. We have had great mitigation plans in place and executed them. And the negotiations -- or sorry, the restructuring is expected to end in May, and we continue to see improvements in our Iberian business as well. So we expect, as we move into Quarter 2, remove the effect of Easter, fully implement our OBPPC in GB and continue to finish our restructuring in Spain, we expect to see improvements in Europe over the next quarter and the rest of the year.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Great. And then, if I can follow-up on North America, just on the pricing side. So sparkling up 2% seems encouraging, but the broader North American pricing kind of being flattish. How should we think about that going forward? Do you expect to see the still pricing being a little bit more pressured, or do we see improvement there going forward, for the broader North American pricing turning positive?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Judy, this is Muhtar. Let me frame again, just a couple important takeaways. For Britain, rational pricing was really the theme for us in Q1. And the very -- the strength of our marketing program, the strength of our commercial program leads us to believe that we will see improvement as we go into Q2 and Q3 and Q4 in Britain. That is the takeaway, I would say.

Again, the same phrase and motto for our US business, rational pricing. That is the takeaway. And we had 2% to 3% price mix in our sparkling portfolio in the US, and you will see that continuing. And I will ask Sandy to and Irial to reflect on further details on that for the year.

SANDY DOUGLAS, SVP, GLOBAL CHIEF CUSTOMER OFFICER, PRESIDENT OF COCA-COLA NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar. Pricing, we expect pricing for the full year in sparkling to actually improve from the first quarter. Our plans are in place with our customers. The market is rational. Our focus on immediate consumption growth will drive mix, and our rate should continue to be healthy, and even improve as we move through the second quarter and into the third quarter where we are lapping some promotional activity. So that is point one,

Point two is, on stills, the case pack water business continues to grow, so it pulls down mix. We see opportunities, however, on a targeted basis in our bottle can stills to improve pricing, and we will take action to do that. Paul, Irial and I see opportunities on a category by category basis.

And then finally, in our chilled juice business, we have just fielded a significant price increase to respond to the commodity issues with our orange juice in Florida, and that is taking root. And our juice business continues to be advantaged from a share perspective.

And I think all of that wraps up, from a pricing standpoint to a much more favorable profit outlook for the full-year. I mean, we saw some timing related issues, and obviously we have talked about having 1 less selling day in the first quarter. But all of that is going to come to do with our price and volume plan for the year to produce profit growth for the full year. Irial?

IRIAL FINAN, EVP & PRESIDENT - BOTTLING INVESTMENTS AND SUPPLY CHAIN, THE COCA-COLA CO: Yes. The only add I would give is, we are about building a long-term sustainable profitable business in the US. And to do that, we must have a balance of pricing and volume growth. And pricing is a really critical part of that, and we will in this year end up with sparkling in the 2% to 3% range in pricing, or price mix, I should say.

And that is really it, and that is what we are focused on. That is what Sandy, and the team, Paul and the team, all of us together are focused on delivering that -- delivering a healthy business that is going back to growth as well.

JUDY HONG: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.

MICHAEL STEIB, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I was wondering if you could comment on the performance of your key markets in Asia, and particularly China and Indonesia. The China volumes have rebounded quite strongly now for two or three quarters, and I was just hoping you could shed some light on what has been driving that? Was it the new strategies and the new team that has been put in place there, whether that is all paying off, or whether it is really mostly due to relatively low comparison basis still?

And then, a similar question on Indonesia, volumes continue to be strong there. I am just wondering what is driving that?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Michael, this is Muhtar I will say, just a couple of top line, and then ask again, Ahmet to contribute. But I will repeat what I said about IC, particularly pleasing was China, IC was up 18%. Indonesia, IC was up 9%, Vietnam up 8%. These are really important for us when -- as we drive profitable growth in our business. And again, our newly architected packaging portfolio in China is really working with the smaller packs and the new price points.

And I think also, the new team certainly is really delivering what we expect of them, as well as our bottlers with renewed focus. Both the Bottling Investments Group but also Swire as well as COFCO are really doing a good job in the first quarter. And I think a lot of really good investments and activity and commercial leadership is in place to continue to drive that momentum, both in the stills as well as in the sparkling portfolio in China. And so, again Ahmet, if you want to just -- (Multiple Speakers).

AHMET BOZER: Yes. Thanks, Muhtar. Yes, I think, Michael, you have listed a lot of reasons. But my headline would be, it is all of the above. But let me color it a little bit.

Certainly, the new team and the new strategy that we covered with you last year is really coming together nicely, and we are happy with the quality of the growth. Sparkling is growing. Juices are growing and those are the categories that we have told you that we were betting on for our growth in China.

You might see us -- growth in waters. That is an important category. But we just had some recent launches into a [RMB2] water, which improves the profitability of that. Very, very early days, and it is doing well. Also, we are quite encouraged with, again very early results on some of our innovations with Schweppes and plus. And just a couple weeks out, the plans is our isotonic. So we are getting that good mix of sparkling juices and innovation that is beginning to work for us.

I would just caution us though, you did mention the easier cycle rates from last year. That is definitely the case, and 12% growth we are very happy with. But we would expect to see growth in China, continued growth in China, probably in the range of mid to high single-digits that we could expect over time. So that is basically -- I think covers everything.

MUHTAR KENT: And just one other point I would highlight, Michael, is Japan, very pleasing that it grew 3%, 3% in sparkling and stills grew 4% in Japan in the quarter. And again, despite the longest monsoon that I have ever experienced in terms of seasons and how long it took, India grew 6% and should do much better going forward. So and again, I am certainly very proud that this is the 31st consecutive quarter of growth in India for us, including continued share gains.

MICHAEL STEIB: And in Indonesia, could you just comment similarly?

AHMET BOZER: Yes, and again, Michael, that is very important market for us, and we have been focused on aligning with our bottling partner, Amatil, there on a new plan. Or let's say, an evolved plan as was the case in China with the revised OBPCC investments in sparkling and still beverages. There has been a recent change in management in -- on the ground. And all of that again, we are cautiously optimistic about the progress we are making in Indonesia, are beginning to deliver good results. And certainly, that market has a -- has so much more opportunity to grow in the coming years.

MICHAEL STEIB: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. First, Gary, congrats on a great run, and best wishes on the farm, and congrats to Kathy also.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

DARA MOHSENIAN: And Muhtar, I was hoping to discuss if your expectations have changed at all here over the last year, just regarding the long-term growth potential of the sparkling category? Not necessarily from a market share front, but more just in terms of category growth?

And if one looks at industry data, it looks like sparkling trends slowed more in 2013 than we have seen in other CPG categories. So I was just hoping for some perspective on that, the drivers behind it, and expectations going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Now -- no changes as far as my perspective is concerned. And I can confirm that both our entire team, as well as our bottling partners feel the same way as a system. We are blessed to be in a great business, both in the sparkling area, as well as in the stills. We continue to innovate. I believe that we have a great future, where so many hundreds of millions of people in so many large markets haven't tasted a Coca-Cola in the last month, or in the last six months, or in the last year.

We have tremendous opportunity going forward. And I believe that innovation, packaging, equipment and great marketing will continue to grow our business going forward, both in sparkling and in stills. And I feel confident that we will go back into the corridors of our long-term growth algorithm this year and years to follow.

And with new innovations, like creating new paths to consumption, creating new consumption occasions like the Keurig Green Mountain innovation, like Freestyle that is driving, we know everywhere, every time, it is actually installed in an outlet, it drives traffic, it drives incidence, it drives increased sales, and it drives excitement for the consumer.

And at the same time, our contour packages, you will see us being focused much more on the contour. Next year is the 100th anniversary of the contour bottle, the iconic contour bottle. You will see a lot of activity around that also. So we feel we have a lot of work to do. But we feel that, isn't that a great place, where you have a lot of work to do, and you believe in your future.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Okay. And on the innovation front in the US, can you give us a bit more detail in terms of maybe potential timing of sweetener innovation? And how impactful you think natural sweeteners could be to your top line results eventually?

MUHTAR KENT: I think they will -- I am certain innovation is going to be impactful, and I can't give you any more details on timing.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Okay. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Sure. So just thank you again, Gary, Kathy, Ahmet, Sandy, Irial, Jackson, we are just once again, firmly committed to advancing our growth trajectory in 2014. Our strategic priorities are yielding tangible and measurable results, and they are consistent with our long-term goals, and our overarching business strategy. Increased marketing investments and a focus, a relentless focus on execution underscore the confidence we have in our systems alignment, as we seek to execute these strategies, while we further strengthen the foundation for profitable and sustainable long-term growth.

Our 2020 vision calls for a well-balanced growth, that is growth in sparkling beverages, and also growth in still beverages across more than 200 markets, countries, and in revenues and margins. And thanks to this balanced growth in both portfolio, as well as geographic mix, we see a path that leads to global volume, revenue and profit growth in line with our long-term targets. Our focus is unwavering, and our execution of our five strategic priorities is going to enable us to restore momentum for growth to our business. Thank you for your time this morning, and for your continued interest and trust in our Company.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for joining. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140417ea4f001e1
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,738 words
   PD
18 February 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome, everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's fourth-quarter 2013 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.

I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP & IR OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA CO: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer.

Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, Executive Vice President and President of Coca-Cola International; Sandy Douglas, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Customer Officer, and President, Coca-Cola North America; and Irial Finan, Executive Vice President, The Coca-Cola Company, and President of Bottling Investments and Supply Chain, will also be available for the Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC reports. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com.

These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures, which may be referred to by our Senior Executives during this morning's discussion, to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information. I would now like to turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. I want to start off today by recognizing that many of you are attending the CAGNY Conference this week. Given the timing of our earnings call and the fact that I will also be presenting at CAGNY this coming Friday, we will keep our prepared remarks a little bit shorter to ensure that we have adequate time for your questions and that we can get you back into the conference.

With 2013 behind us, I am now looking forward to joining forces with our global system associates as we work to restore momentum to our Business in 2014. 2013 was clearly marked by ongoing persistent macroeconomic challenges and our Business was not immune to these pressures. Nevertheless, we delivered sound financial results and we grew global value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for a 26th consecutive quarter.

Our worldwide volume grew 1% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the full year. We delivered full-year comparable currency-neutral operating income growth of 6% after excluding the impact of structural changes off of a comparable currency-neutral ex-structural revenue growth of 3% for the full year.

And we delivered full-year comparable currency-neutral EPS growth of 8%, in line with our long-term growth targets. This performance underscores our ability to generate sound financial results even in a challenging environment.

Our sparkling brands grew 1% in the full year, cycling 3% with brand Coca-Cola, adding nearly 100 million unit cases. In fact, all of $1 billion sparkling brands, except for Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light grew in 2013, contributing more than 140 million incremental cases in the full year. As of the end of 2013, we've gained core sparkling value share for 17 consecutive quarters.

For the full-year, our portfolio of still beverage brands contributed over 300 million incremental cases, or 5% growth, while cycling 10% growth in the prior year. Importantly, we gained volume share and value share for the year.

Our tea volume grew 11% for the full year, with solid performance across our entire tea portfolio. Juice and juice drinks grew 5% for the full year, with strong performance by Minute Maid, Simply, Del Valle, Minute Maid Pulpy, Rani, and Innocent. We are proud of our robust portfolio of leading juice and juice drink brands.

Sports drinks grew 2% for the full year, with Powerade continuing its solid and consistent growth performance. Packaged water grew 5% for the full year as we focused on growing our premium water brands and on expanding our PlantBottle and Eco-Flex packaging.

While 2013 was an unusual and challenging year, it has certainly not deterred us from our commitment to our 2020 Vision. Many economies around the world remain volatile in 2013, developed markets are slowly starting to recover from this turbulent time, and consumer expenditures remain moderated.

Emerging markets face a substantial challenges as they dealt with fluctuating currencies and other structural issues. However, we remain optimistic and excited about the future of our Business and brands in emerging markets. After all, per capita consumption for our brands remains relatively low in most emerging countries.

That said, these emerging market conditions simply reinforce our commitment to remain focused on our long-term strategies and to keep investing through these tough times to ensure that we continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth.

In Europe, we saw a 1% volume decline for the year. However, we gained sparkling and still value share and we were pleased by improving volume performance in certain key markets. A better second half of the year helped our Northwest Europe and Nordics business unit close 2013 with 1% volume growth, while Germany continued to outperform, delivering 6% volume growth for the quarter and 2% growth for the year. Â¶ur successful Share a Coke campaign last summer contributed to full-year trademark Coca-Cola volume growth of 1% in Northwest Europe and Nordics, and 5% in Germany. We also launched Share a Coke in our Iberia business unit in the fourth quarter of the past year, and as in other markets, the campaign has generated tremendous excitement, contributing to strong double-digit immediate consumption growth and to trademark Coca-Cola growth of 2% in the quarter.

Moving now to Eurasia and Africa, full-year volume grew 7% cycling 10% in the prior-year, and we grew volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for the full year. All our business units delivered solid full-year volume growth, including double-digit volume growth in our Middle East and North Africa business units.

In Russia, strong Olympic and Christmas campaigns activated across the country fueled double-digit growth in trademark Coca-Cola for the full year and enabled us to gain core sparkling volume share while maintaining value share. Fittingly, leading up to this Olympic year, our Business achieved an all-time high market share for nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.

We recently completed a successful Olympic torch relay, bringing the torch to thousands of Russian towns and cities. I was pleased to have an opportunity to host our customers and our bottling partners in Sochi last week, where I saw our best ever activation of an Olympic [asset]. Our local team and bottler are doing an excellent job in Sochi.

Our Pacific group grew 3% in the full year, cycling 7% in the prior year. We were pleased to see improving trends across key markets, including India, China, and Japan as the year progressed.

For the full year, our volume in Japan grew 1%, with Sprite, Minute Maid, and Ayataka each growing by double-digits. China contributed 3% volume growth for the full-year, cycling 4% in 2012, and grew 5% in the fourth quarter.

We delivered balanced growth across sparkling and still beverages thanks to strong campaigns and a renewed focus on execution. We're engaging teams and driving category excitement in China through campaigns like our Mini-Me Coca-Cola campaign, which contributed to double-digit immediate consumption growth in the fourth quarter, and our popular Share a Coke campaign last summer.

India cycled 16% full-year growth, with a 4% volume increase in 2013, closing out the year with our 30th consecutive quarter of volume growth. It is remarkable to think of the business that we have built in India over the last two decades. In 2013, our system generated nearly $1.8 billion in revenue, and we have four of the top five core sparkling brands, the number one juice drink brand, a commanding nonalcoholic ready-to-drink share, and so much, so much untapped opportunity still ahead.

Turning now to Latin America, we grew 1% for the full year, cycling 5% from the prior year. Argentina, Mexico, and Brazil all come to mind as we consider what worked for us and what was challenging in 2013 in Latin America.

We were pleased with our performance in Argentina, where despite challenging economic conditions, our brands performed well, resulting in 7% volume growth for the full year. Sparkling was an important volume driver in Argentina, with Coca-Cola, Sprite, and Fanta each growing mid to high single-digits.

Coca-Cola Life met our expectations and is playing a meaningful role, as it is not just delivering incremental volume, but also enhancing the positive feelings that consumers have for Coca-Cola. We're excited about the potential of Coca-Cola Life, as it has shown great promise in bringing people back into the category. It's another example of how we are working to be part of the solution to the obesity issue, giving consumers a blend of sugar and natural zero-calorie sweeteners.

Returning to our business in Argentina, our still brands grew double-digits, with strong performance in packaged water, with the launch of the Bonaqua Eco-Flex bottle, as well as solid growth in juice and juice drinks and sports drinks.

In Mexico, volume growth was even for the year with still beverage volume growth offset by sparkling. Despite a solid start to 2013, we had a challenging second half of the year, mostly due to severe weather. We continue to see opportunity in Mexico where our strong brands, world-class execution, and an improving economy bode well for the future.

Our bottling partners have adjusted their pricing as the result of the newly implemented tax and we are closely monitoring any further adjustments as needed. While we expect the change to adversely impact our volume in Mexico in the short-term, it is too early to tell what the exact impact will be at this time.

I will wrap up my commentary on Latin America with an update on our Business in Brazil, where consumers have been impacted by a slowing economy, rising prices, and reduced disposable income. Full-year volume was down 2% due to a disappointing 6% drop in the fourth quarter.

Our local team, working closely with our bottling partners, have now launched an upgraded affordability strategy, enhancing our [occasion] brand, price pack, and channel architecture. We are optimistic that this strategy, together with our World Cup program, will enable us to return to growth in Brazil in 2014.

Turning now to North America, we remain steadfast in our commitment to building long-term value in our flagship market and a commitment that calls for building strong brands, creating customer value, and enhancing our system capabilities. Sandy Douglas is leading our North America business, where we will again benefit from the strong customer and strategic brand expertise. Adding Paul Mulligan and Irial Finan's disciplined focus on execution at the point-of-sale will enable us to refine these strategies and to enhance their impact.

The combined experience and expertise of this leadership team and a joint accountability for driving value will ensure that we are laser-focused on continued improvement of our overall performance in this important market. We will therefore continue to assess and to evaluate the operating results in North America as an integrated business.

In October of 2010, we established a four- to five-year timeframe to commence the refranchising of our bottling operations in North America. 2014 is the fourth year, and as the North America operating model evolves, it will not only streamline our focus, but it will also expedite refranchising to independent bottling partners.

To date, we've closed on the first transaction of our 21st century beverage partnership model at the end of 2013, and we are very encouraged with the seamless transition of the territory. Looking ahead, we are well-aligned on the transition with the other four bottlers that we announced back in 2013.

We expect to reach agreements with those partners shortly and for those transactions to begin closing later in the year that we are in. We will also imminently announce new bottling partnerships whose ownership reflects the diversity of the consumers and customers we proudly serve in North America.

We expect North America to deliver consistent volume, revenue, and transaction growth, with the balance, volume, and price mix that you would expect from an industry leader. We also firmly believe that the Business will deliver consistent profitable growth over the long-term.

2013 was a challenging year in North America and I'm not satisfied with our overall performance. Nevertheless, we gained volume and value share while generating positive price mix of 1% across our portfolio and positive price mix of 2% for our sparkling brands. However, our volume was even versus prior year and operating income fell short of our targets.

Sparkling beverage volume fell 2%, largely due to softer Diet Coke volume. We have implemented a multi-faceted approach to address category headwinds and the various misperceptions that fuel them. This effort is targeting both obesity and ingredient concerns and increased aggressive sweetener innovation, transparent consumer communications, continued packaging evolution, and new partnerships with credible third parties around the world who will use meaningful facts to defend and protect the sparkling category.

While we work to nurture our sparkling business back to growth, our still beverage business continues to perform well. Still beverages grew 5% for the full year, as our diverse portfolio of still beverage brands continues to outperform the competition. Thanks to continuous innovation and to growing brands like Powerade, Simply, Gold Peak, and smartwater, the fourth quarter marked the 15th consecutive quarter in which our still beverage portfolio gained or maintained volume and value share in North America.

As we approach the mid-point of our 2020 Vision, we remain fully committed to taking the necessary bold actions to realize our vision. One such action is our recently-announced global partnership with Green Mountain Coffee Roasters. This partnership is a real game-changing innovation in the nonalcoholic beverage category.

Consumers are demanding more beverage variety, functionality, and convenience, and we believe Green Mountain is the perfect strategic partner to collaborate with and to capitalize on the many transformative opportunities we see available in the marketplace. Importantly for The Coca-Cola Company, with this exciting partnership, we're leveraging new technology to create a transformative platform for consumers to enjoy our great brands through new consumption occasions and new channels. Â¶y combining Coca-Cola's brand leadership and global footprint with Green Mountain's cutting-edge technology and innovation capabilities, together we will capitalize on the many exciting opportunities in the single-serve pod-based segment of the cold beverage industry, as well as explore other future opportunities to collaborate on the entire Keurig platform.

As evidenced by this recent announcement, our Management team is constantly identifying and constantly evaluating creative ways to formulate and fuel the power of partnerships that keep us at the forefront of consumer trends driving the dynamic global beverage industry. We are fortunate to participate in a global and resilient industry fueled by robust long-term demographic trends. We are part of a great business system and unparalleled in its reach and its commitment to invest and we are the stewards of some of the world's most loved brands.

Thus, there is no doubt that the lingering effects of the global recession in 2009 have created a challenging environment over the last few years. In addition, obesity and ingredient concerns have raised some questions about growth in developed markets.

Throughout this time period, our Company has consistently delivered on our profit objectives and we will not allow ourselves to become distracted or to make decisions focused on short-term gains. Instead, we have thoroughly evaluated what we need to do to accelerate sustainable growth and we're acting with urgency and decisiveness. Historically, we know that when we invest in our brands, commit to near-flawless execution, and control what we know we can control, we can accelerate our growth.

With this in mind, we aligned on five strategic priorities to restore our momentum and to keep us on the path to achieve our 2020 Vision. These priorities focus on the growth drivers for our (inaudible) system, sparkling beverages, still beverages, and global system execution, and on securing and strengthening the financial and human capital necessary to deliver long-term sustainable growth.

Our five strategic system priorities to restore momentum are: firstly, accelerate sparkling growth, led by Coca-Cola; secondly, strategically expanding our profitable still portfolio; third, increasing media investments by maximizing productivity; fourth, winning at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our system; and five, investing in our next generation of leaders. Let me just spend a few minutes providing some detail on each of these system priorities.

First, we will accelerate sparkling growth, led by Coca-Cola. There is quite simply no other brand in the world like Coca-Cola, the world's most universal beverage brand. We're fortunate to be its stewards.

Indeed, in many markets around the world, brand Coca-Cola remains magical, but we need to work even harder to enhance the romance of the brand in every market around the world. Our global marketing community is laser-focused on doing their best work while reallocating resources to the most impactful campaigns and mediums.

A good example of this great work is Share a Coke, which I have referenced several times in my remarks earlier. Since the initial launch of Share a Coke in Australia back in 2011, we've now executed the campaign in 21 other markets.

This is much more than a marketing campaign; in fact, it's a system-wide collaborative effort to engage consumers in a meaningful and very authentic Coca-Cola way. Markets that have launched Share a Coke have experienced increased household penetration, higher immediate consumption volume, and improved brand [love] scores as a redirect result of this campaign. This is the kind of marketing that we love to invest in and we look forward to again sharing a Coke with millions of consumers around the world this year.

At the same time, we're working hard to empower our consumers and we're making progress against our four commitments to further contribute to healthier, happier, and more active communities. To that end, we've placed a special emphasis on innovation efforts to enhance low- or no-calorie versions of our brands, as well as on supporting active, healthy living programs all around the world.

Our second priority is to strategically expand our profitable still portfolio. We are the world's largest still beverage Company with $11 billion still brands and many more in the pipeline.

We've shown in juices that when we approach an objective and a goal systematically, aligning with our partners, planning from end-to-end, we win and we win big. Today, The Coca-Cola Company is also the world's largest juice and juice drinks Company, almost twice the size of our closest competitor. We are the stewards of $4 billion juice and juice drink brands and we are working diligently to raise that number.

We're bringing the same disciplined thinking to other categories, partnering across our system and across our supply chain to establish a scalable formula for value creation in new categories. This effort involves re-examining every stage of a beverage's lifecycle and developing category-specific plans that balance organic growth innovation and acquisitions.

Our third system priority is to increase media investments by maximizing productivity. We're in a business where great marketing works, so we have committed to increasing our media spending behind our brands by up to $1 billion by 2016. We will fund this increased investment through a combination of supply chain optimization, systems standardization, diligent resource and cost allocation, as well as improved utilization of our global marketing network.

This incremental productivity goal will further enable us to drive long-term profitable growth and momentum towards realizing our 2020 Vision. Gary will share further details about this new opportunity in a few moments.

Our fourth priority is to win at the point-of-sale by unlocking the power of our global system. Working together with our marketing partners, we are continuously building capabilities and leveraging best practices to improve our execution. In the last four years alone, our system has invested over $50 billion to enhance our competitive position in markets all around the world.

As you know, execution in the global marketplace is about doing many common things uncommonly well and doing them in an aligned way across our great system. It is about presenting our brands in the right package, in the right outlet, in the right channel, at the right price [code] available, and within an arms reach of our consumers. This is why we're calling 2014 the year of execution at the point-of-sale, beginning with brand Coca-Cola.

Our final, but perhaps most important priority, is to continue to invest in our pipeline of leaders. There is nothing more critical to our Business than our people and we have to continue to hire the best, retain the best, train the best, and mentor the best. Our Company and leadership must inspire our people to live our values of focusing on the market, working smart, acting like owners, and being passionate ambassadors for our Company and for our brands.

As we look forward to 2014 and beyond, we remain very confident in our ability to drive our volume growth trajectory back in line with our long-term growth model. The overall beverage industry remains healthy, generating both volume and value growth.

Our diverse portfolio of $17 billion brands, combined with our unparalleled scale, provides us with many opportunities to accelerate market share gains. We have identified opportunities to significantly enhance our productivity initiatives and we've made important commitments to increase our brand investments.

Consequently, we are no less enthusiastic about the future ahead of us and the beverage industry than when we embarked on our 2020 Vision back four years ago. With that, let me turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. As Muhtar shared earlier, 2013 presented numerous challenges to our industry and to our Business. As a result, our full-year volume growth was below our expectations.

However, before we put 2013 behind us, I wanted to reflect on a few items that I shared with you all at CAGNY last February. Specifically, I talked about our unwavering focus on long-term value creation for our share owners. Apart from competing in a great industry, there were three specific points I emphasized.

First, we are focused on delivering value-creating volume growth. Despite volume growth being below our expectations in 2013, we delivered full-year operating income and EPS growth in line with our long-term growth targets.

Secondly, our goal is to take volume share and value share. Although we fell short on volume, we again gained global value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in 2013.

Lastly, I emphasized the critical role that the evolution of our franchise system plays in creating sustainable long-term growth. Our Company and our system made solid progress on this front throughout 2013. We sold 51% of our Philippines bottling operations to Coca-ColaFEMSA; our four bottling partners in the greater Tokyo area emerged to form Coca-Cola East Japan; our seven bottling partners in Spain and Portugal merged and the integration of that bottler is underway; we merged our Company-owned bottling operations in Brazil, with an independent local bottler, to form the second largest bottler in Brazil; and we also continued to advance the system of the future work in North America.

Having said that, let's quickly review a few key drivers of our financial performance this year. Unit case sales and concentrate sales were in line on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter and for the full year. Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 6% in the quarter and for the full year, after excluding the impact of structural items.

Comparable currency-neutral earnings per share grew 7% in the quarter and 8% for the full year. We generated $10.5 billion in cash from operations, which was down 1%, primarily due to the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, an increase in tax payments, and the impact of the deconsolidation of bottling operations in the Philippines and Brazil.

Now let me take a moment to update everyone on our productivity initiatives before I move to our outlook for 2014. First, let me start by saying, we've made significant progress on our previously-announced productivity and reinvestment programs. In fact, I'm pleased to report that by the end of 2013, we have substantially accomplished the objectives of the program and captured the savings associated with those objectives.

Secondly, as Muhtar mentioned earlier, we are expanding our previously-announced productivity and reinvestment program to drive an incremental $1 billion in productivity by 2016 that will be redirected primarily into increased media investments. Our incremental productivity goal consists of two relatively equal components.

First, expanded savings through global supply chain optimization, data and information technology system standardization, and resource and cost reallocation, which will be reinvested in global brand building initiatives, with an emphasis on increased media spending. Also we'll be increasing the effectiveness of our marketing investments by transforming our marketing and commercial model to redeploy resources into more consumer-facing marketing investments to accelerate growth.

As we look ahead to 2014, let me take a minute to update you on a few outlook items as you model our business. After considering our hedge positions, current spot rates, and the cycling of prior-year rates, we currently expect a currency headwind at the operating income of approximately 10 points in the first quarter of 2014 and 7 points for the full year.

In terms of coverage, we're fully hedged on the euro and the yen, almost totally covered on Sterling, and also have near-term coverage in place across several other major currencies. We anticipate that operating leverage on a currency-neutral basis will be flat to slightly positive.

We expect net interest income will contribute roughly the equivalent of $0.01 per share to our full-year 2014 earnings per share and will be evenly distributed throughout the year. We expect the tax rate for 2014 to hold steady at approximately 23%.

With respect to structural items, we'll still be cycling the impact of some bottling divestitures during the first six months of 2014, and even though these structural items will not have a significant impact on earnings per share, they will result in a 1 point headwind at both net revenue and operating income for the full year.

To be clear, our 2014 outlook for the impact of structural items does not include the potential impact of refranchising bottling assets in North America related to our system of the future work. We will continue to provide updates as we move forward throughout the year.

As for cash, as I've shared with you over the years, we utilize a very disciplined and consistent framework. First, we reinvest in the Business, which includes making the necessary investments to strengthen our brands to accelerate growth. It also includes capital investments, which we expect to be in the range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year.

Second, we reward share owners by paying a healthy dividend. We've increased our dividend every year for more than a half-century and we will recommend another increase in the dividend this year at our Board meeting this week.

Next we evaluate opportunities to grow through acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures. We view these as enablers to help accelerate growth when appropriate and where there is a need within our existing portfolio.

Finally, we put what's left over into share repurchase. In 2014, we expect share repurchases to be in the range of $2.5 billion to $3 billion.

Although our 2014 outlook for net share repurchase is below 2013, I would remind everyone that our 2013 buybacks represented a 15% increase from the prior year and was partially funded by cash inflows related to bottling divestitures. Also given the forecasted exchange headwinds in 2014, we believe this is the right approach and will obviously continue to update you as we move forward throughout the year.

In terms of quarterly phasing, our first quarter in 2014 will have one less selling day and our fourth quarter will have one additional selling day. In addition, we expect the impact of the Easter holiday to fully benefit the second quarter of 2014, and we'll be cycling the reversal of certain expenses related to long-term compensation in the first and second quarters of 2014.

In closing, we continue to be focused on doing the right things for the health of our Business and to ensure we can deliver sustainable, long-term growth to create value for our share owners. I believe our Company and our system are well-positioned to capitalize on the opportunities within our great industry.

I look forward to seeing many of you at CAGNY later this week and at CAGE in March. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you please talk about the outlook geography-by-geography and then maybe how the pace of growth is going to differ between volume and pricing given some of the big currency moves and also obviously the tax in Mexico? I have a follow-up if I could?

MUHTAR KENT: Sure, Bill. Good morning. This is Muhtar.

Let me first just take a step back and just say that, in a way, we've had a speed bump. We know it would have come on our road to 2020. We dealt with commodities and in 2011 and 2012. Volatility in weather has become a norm.

Uncertain economies -- internal, also execution issues caused us to under-perform versus our expectations in 2013. I'll start by saying that.

We have looked at everything. We have looked at our people, priorities, marketing, selling, and innovation, and we have refreshed our plans with a simple but scaled up set of priorities on marketing our brands, system execution by our franchisees and bottling partners and Company-owned bottlers, and on innovation of all kinds. Business models like the one that we recently announced with Green Mountain, brands, equipment, packaging, the lot.

Our long-term outlook is our performance algorithm which we have and will deliver going forward. And 2014 will be a year of steady improvement as we get back up to speed.

But make no mistake, our leadership team is confident, accountable. Our system will market well. We will sell well and we are going to achieve our 2020 Vision.

Now let me just take you through a quick tour of the world and I'll ask Ahmet also to comment. Starting with Asia, China is going to sustain its growth, India in terms of its macroeconomic outlook, and we will continue to benefit from that.

In India, there is elections coming up and usually when there are elections, there is a little bit of easing of fiscal discipline. That will play into a little bit of added disposable incomes.

In Southeast Asia, certainly we've seen quite a lot of political turmoil, especially in Thailand. That will -- as we go into 2014, my expectation is that, that will ease a little bit.

Indonesia, also there's an election coming up. But Indonesia is certainly having some macroeconomic issues that will probably continue into 2014. Philippines, we'll see a slightly improved outlook in the Philippines versus 2013.

In Japan, obviously everyone is looking very closely at the new policies of Prime Minister Abe's government. There's a new tax coming up. We'll see how that impacts but certainly we all feel -- that our operating in Japan -- feel that there is some hope for a little bit of more inflation in the economy that will benefit also businesses like ours. Although recently, the last economic numbers from Japan were a little bit below expectations.

Africa, youngest continent, we're very well-positioned. We feel that we will continue to grow well in the years to come in the African continent and benefit from also improvements in governance across the whole continent.

In Eurasia, there's elections coming up in Turkey. Lots of again political issues in the Middle East will continue.

Russia, all Russians can be very proud of the Olympics that are taking place. We will as we move forward -- and I was there in Russia, looking at some of the great activations that we've had in our Business -- and Russia, our Business will continue to grow in Russia with all the investments that we're making with our bottling partners.

Europe is a continued tale of two cities. If you take the southern zone, the high unemployment and low growth is going to continue but it's not going to get worse.

As far as northern Europe, Britain is certainly ahead of all the other economies in terms of the growth outlook. Germany also is in that area. We will continue to benefit from the robustness of policies in those two economies and the rest of the continent is somewhat behind Germany and England.

In Latin America, again, 2014 is going to be a year leading into an election in early 2015. We'll have also the benefit of the World Cup and our biggest ever activation globally on the World Cup. Southern Cone -- Argentina, Chile -- we should continue to see the benefit of all the programs we have in place and also continued inflationary environment in those two areas.

Mexico, President Pena Nieto's programs are taking effect, all the reforms. Long-term, that is a benefit to our Business, to the economy, to the people of Mexico. Again, as I said in my commentary, it's too early to say about the impact of the price increase we've had there.

So I hope that gives you a good tour of the world. Then finally, in terms of our flagship market in the United States, clearly the best right now, as far as we can see -- the best Western developed economy in the world, we think we will see slightly improved mobility in the United States in 2014 versus 2013. We hope that, that will also mean a little bit of increased spending for consumer products as we go into 2014.

So -- and again, we will benefit from all the robustness in our marketing programs and our increased expenditure and quality of marketing as we move into 2014 for our flagship market.

Ahmet, do you want to add some commentary?

AHMET BOZER, EVP & PRESIDENT OF COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL, THE COCA-COLA CO: Yes, I'll add a few things to really compare some of these issues that have existed even last year, how they are different now. So for example emerging market currencies, when the first news on discontinuation of tapering came out last year around May or June, there was a bit of a shock in emerging markets.

We see that over the last seven or eight months, these emerging markets are finding ways to deal with it -- by no means it's certain, by no means it's perfect -- but it certainly feels a little bit more under control compared to when it first came up, and the interest rate and things like that have been baked into those expectations. So the message there is countries and our Business, we are finding ways to deal with that new reality of less liquidity coming out of the United States.

I would just add, Muhtar, to your comment on Europe north-south divide, that is very much true but we are beginning to see different shades of gray in the south as well. There are some encouraging signs in Spain; less so in Italy at this point in time, although there's a new prime minister there and we're hopeful with the new programs to be announced if they are.

And Eastern Europe -- it continues to struggle in terms of consumer confidence and economics. So North continues to do well and South is even showing different performance now.

The other point that, Muhtar, you mentioned, is political uncertainty. It's another common theme to many of our emerging markets. They eventually could impact the economic realities, but again, so far, in countries like Turkey and Thailand, it's been fine.

And let me, just, in the interest of giving time to other questions, let me just stop it here.

MUHTAR KENT: Sandy, do you want to add any commentary to North America? It's important to say in North America that we believe in the North American market; we believe in the demographics; we believe this is a growth market.

We have grown in all but 2 quarters of the last 15 quarters in the United States. We believe we can do better and we're intent and resolutely focused on achieving that. Sandy?

SANDY DOUGLAS, SVP, GLOBAL CHIEF CUSTOMER OFFICER & PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar. We have a great Business in North America. Our focus in accelerating the Business is on our brands, on our customers, and on our capability.

I'm really happy to be working with Irial and Paul and all of our US bottlers. Irial Finan and Paul bring a tremendous amount of selling and executional energy that will help us build on our momentum.

On my end, over the last 6 to 7 weeks, Paul and I have met with our major customers, we've met with our bottlers, and we've gone through the brand plans in detail looking at opportunities to focus and strengthen them and to move resources to emphasize advertising and brand-building on our largest brands. With the plan in place, our focus as a system -- Irial, Paul, and I, and our bottlers -- is to improve all aspects of our execution whether it's marketing or sales or in the marketplace.

We believe as a result of that, that we will improve steadily over time, and we share the confidence that Muhtar expressed in the long-term health of North America. It's a great market, it will grow, and I think we can be confident about our long-term future there.

BILL SCHMITZ: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Just a follow-up to Bill's question, if we think about 2014 there's a lot of moving parts, with exchange rates and some of the volatility in emerging markets. Gary, could you talk a little bit about how we should think about currency-neutral and also maybe neutral of the effects of structural change?

Are you still looking at a currency-neutral on-algorithm year in operating profits? And also just some of the other major drivers behind volume that might influence that cost of goods sold inflation, price mix, country mix, that sort of thing? That would be helpful?

GARY FAYARD: Bryan, thanks, and let me see if I can go through all of those. Let me start at the top.

When you're the industry leader, you have to believe in rational pricing and we believe we should get pricing for our brands because our brands are worth it and we would expect to have positive price mix this year to go with the volume that we will have this year. When you look at commodities, they're fairly benign from what we're seeing for 2014 so not a big deal.

Now let's say currency, among the worst we've seen in years. There's not a whole lot you can do about it when all the emerging market currencies melt down as they did earlier at the end of December, early January. With that said, let me be very clear. Ours is a growth business, is a business model that is built on growth, and we know that we cannot save our way to prosperity.

We will have productivity, but that productivity will be reinvested for growth. While we are reinvesting for growth in our marketing, we have -- our goals are also, in addition, while we're increasing the marketing, we will also have a goal and it is the goal for this year of hitting our long-term growth models this year. So we're going to significantly increase our marketing but at the same time the goal is we will hit long-term growth model this year.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thanks for that clarity, Gary. Look forward to seeing you guys Friday.

GARY FAYARD: Right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just one quick follow-up to Gary's question and then a question for Muhtar or Gary to answer, rather. Gary, does that include a Mexico impact in hitting your long-term algorithm program in 2014?

Then Muhtar, responding to Gary's question about ramping up the marketing, how do we view -- there's a sense out there in the market that given the headwinds for the category, that adding more marketing could be pushing on a string, so to speak. So what is it that you're seeing that says these headwinds that you are facing can be offset with higher marketing? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: John, this is Gary. Thanks for the question.

First, as Muhtar said in the prepared remarks, it's too early to tell what's going to happen in Mexico. We have planned around Mexico of what we believe is the most likely case, but we have a portfolio of brands that are marketed and sold across 200 countries, and our job is to manage that portfolio.

So unless something unforeseen should happen, the answer has to be yes. It includes what could happen in Mexico. If that changes, we'll update you obviously, but we're going on what we believe would happened today.

MUHTAR KENT: And just to add to Gary's answer and to the second part of your question, John, I'll just tell you very simply that the Coca-Cola way is to grow our way to success. We invest for growth together with our bottling partners and we have the greatest system in the world.

We have a tremendous amount of experience to say that good marketing, good selling works for our Business. And it will work for our business. We have numerous cases to prove that.

We're going to continue to build on our marketing in both quantity and quality. This is a global increase in marketing.

In every country that we operate in, large or small, we know it works. When we invest in marketing, our global partners invest in feet-on-the-street, in more coolers, in more trucks, in more [lines], and that's what we see happening. That's what we will see, we believe, happening to our Business as we restore steady momentum in through 2014 and beyond.

JOHN FAUCHER: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A few questions. First, just the North America, Gary, the profitability decline in fourth quarter was pretty surprising. So maybe you could give us a little bit color in terms of the components of the profit decline in North America?

Just broadly in North America from a profitability perspective, the Business hasn't really grown since the acquisition of the bottlers. So as you think about the next couple of years, thinking about the refranchising opportunities, and all the productivity savings, are we at a point where we can actually see growth in this Business from a profitability perspective in 2014, or is this more of a transition year still with the investment that's going on?

GARY FAYARD: Judy, it's Gary. Let me take the first part of that question on the fourth-quarter operating profit declined was down 12% in the fourth quarter. By the way, I know the answer to this one specifically because I asked the same question some time back and got into the minute detail on it.

100% of that change is because it's in all in OpEx, or primarily all in OpEx and it's what we're cycling from 2012. There were some incentive compensation accrual reversals in the fourth quarter of 2012 that did not happen in 2013. That cycling caused a significant change in OpEx swing year-on-year in the fourth quarter only and it's what swung North America to that 12% operating income loss.

So it's much more reasonable to actually look at North America, look at it for the full year, and you'll get a better picture of actual performance versus the fourth quarter. When you look at the full year, then you will see that is where we've got some challenges, as Muhtar said, around volume and particularly in sparkling -- around diets and lights. But that's what we're specifically on.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, just let me add to in terms of the outlook, and that is that, as I said, we are confident about and excited about, first, our performance our algorithm worldwide. But also in terms of steady improvement as we get back up to speed in the United States and that will -- when we start restoring the momentum in the United States, which we believe is going to happen, that will also bring the financial results that we will be happier with as we move into 2014 and beyond.

It's going to take a while. This is not an immediate fix but we know that it's going to be a steady improvement.

JUDY HONG: And just in terms of the media investments, is there any color you can give us in terms of the breakdown by regions, by categories? Is North America likely to get a disproportionate amount in terms of the media spending increase in 2014?

MUHTAR KENT: Can't give you the specifics on the geographic mix, Judy, but as we announced, it's about $1 billion by 2016. And it is a global number.

Again, there will be a good distribution. We will be again also looking and tracking through franchise leadership, resulting also system increase in investment in all the key markets.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Thank you. See you Friday.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. See you Friday. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Dara Mohsenian, Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I also wanted to touch on profit in North America. It sounds like, in 2013, you view the profit challenges as more driven from a volume perspective, but given that diet soft drinks worries seem to be more secular around longer-term health concerns, I'm just wondering if going forward, you may manage more for profitability and lean more on pricing than driving volume growth. Is there any change as you look at the algorithm between pricing and volume and which metric you'll focus on going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Dara. Sandy, you want to take the (multiple speakers) and then, Irial, you want to comment?

SANDY DOUGLAS: The key to the North America growth algorithm is investing in our brands and our feet-on-the-street. A key element to that is getting our pricing so that we can have the revenue to be able to reinvest in sustainable growth.

Where we've had issues over the years, in my experience, in North America, is when we did not get the price we needed, when our marketing execution was not what it need to be, and therefore the feet-on-the-street started to get reduced and ultimately it hurt sustainable growth. Our plan going forward, and it's going to take some time, and we're focused on improving it, is to make sure that we get the price and that we execute the marketing well and feed the feet-on-the-street, which creates the virtuous cycle in the United States just like it does around the world. Irial, do you want to add to that?

IRIAL FINAN, EVP & PRESIDENT BOTTLING INVESTMENTS AND SUPPLY CHAIN, THE COCA-COLA CO: The only comment I'd say -- Muhtar already mentioned that we are an industry leader. And industry leaders have to set the tone in terms of price, in terms of how to market the brand in any given markets.

Actually less than 50 days in to my new involvement in North America, I'm really excited about the future. I'm excited about the enthusiasm, the passion of our people, our job -- mine, Paul's, Sandy's -- is really to make sure that excitement translates into performance and to results.

As Sandy said, it's not going to happen overnight. I feel we've already started on the journey, and over the next quarters and next couple of years, you will see very positive momentum in our market in North America.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Okay, and then Muhtar, post the investment in Green Mountain, I was just hoping to get an update on how important a role acquisitions might play in meeting your 2020 Vision goals. You mentioned the focus on partnerships earlier in the call -- I was hoping you could elaborate there? And if acquisitions are a greater priority here given some of the difficult macro conditions and a somewhat favorable environment with your healthy balance sheet and still low rates here?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Nothing different than before. So no change.

We're obviously very excited with our new opportunities for consumption as will be brought to us by the partnership with Green Mountain over time. The key is to fuel the power of partnerships.

The Coca-Cola Company and system is an incredible integration of power of partnerships in every respect. And therefore, this is yet another one. So think about -- if you look at household consumption, in particular the Western markets, there's a tremendous opportunity to gain incremental consumption occasions for our brands through these kind of partnerships.

This is what the Green Mountain partnership is all about. When you look at how beverages are consumed at home and when you look at trends in the next 10 years, people are going to spend more time at home.

They're going to work more from home. Home is going to be an even more important place for people, for consumers. And we need to be present there with different technologies, different packaging, different ways to serve our brands, and that's why this is important and partnerships like these are going to be important for us over time going forward.

Our thinking has not really evolved or changed in terms of bolt-on acquisitions. If we see opportunities, we will get them, like Innocent, like [Oshan] and so forth. And we will continue to seek new power partnerships -- to leverage new power partnerships also going into the remaining part of our 2020 Vision for the next six years.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: The frustration I'm hearing from many investors and a lot of questions on this call is just that there's a feeling that the Company isn't doing enough to change itself, despite that the world around it has clearly changed and many, like us, believe secularly. There is continued emphasis on the Coca-Cola way and history, which is respectable in volumes, market share, spending even more on marketing, blaming some short-term externalities. But it's been a little while now that we've seen tougher volumes, North America profit pool continues to shrink, there's only $1 billion cost savings, when some of your competitors are doing more [only] from a pro rata basis. There is limited movement on refranchising your health innovations so far.

So might the Company ever believe that it needs to focus on new levers of shareholder value creation, like pricing up even more, lower promotions, massive cost cutting, big portfolio or innovation change, and indeed returning more cash to shareholders? I know there's lots there, but should investors expect bigger, bolder change at KO to meet this truly different world and if so what should specifically should we be looking forward to, to just sharing in your confidence about the story, or should we just expect the same status quo, going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: First, Ali, I disagree with you. We have a great portfolio of brands; we have a great system, the best consumer product system in the world; and I believe that our programs will work and have worked.

We've significantly outperformed and grown since 2010. Yes, we've had a speed bump and certainly that makes us even more focused and more resolute to continue on our road to 2020.

We have -- I will share at CAGNY on Friday, the real reasons why we believe in our future. And so that's all I would say.

ALI DIBADJ: But I don't disagree with you about the strength of the brands at all actually, Muhtar. And I don't disagree with you about the strength of the system. I'm just looking at the results and I'm trying to figure out whether enough is changing, enough is different and whether you guys actually do you the world as different enough and so you're taking action but I actually don't disagree with you--?

MUHTAR KENT: I understand. I understand it's easy for people to have very short memories. But we have the experience and we know what we are doing and we will continue to do what we believe and we are focused and we will execute the best and we will achieve our 2020 Vision.

That's what this is all about. So that's what I will say.

And we have talked about pricing. You've heard my colleagues also talk about pricing. And we don't want to repeat ourselves.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay. Thanks very much.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you, Gary, Ahmet, Sandy, Irial, and Jackson. We've delivered sound full-year financial results. We're implementing the strategic actions that will enable us to restore momentum in 2014 and we see many reasons to believe that we can accelerate our growth over time, achieve our long-term growth model targets, and realize our 2020 Vision.

Our global beverage industry is healthy. The trends that have historically fueled it continue to be strong, and our global systems' commitment and reach are unparalleled. This commitment has never wavered and the strategic decisions that we have made over recent years have not only enabled us to deliver solid financial results, they've also advanced our competitive position, enhanced our capabilities, and strengthened our resolve as a global system to achieve our 2020 Vision.

That is our promise to our investors, to our customers, to our consumers, and the daily objective of the more than 700,000 associates of the Coca-Cola system all around the world. As always, we thank you for your interest, your investment in our Company, and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And this does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140220ea2i00231
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,626 words
   PD
15 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's third-quarter 2013 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors and, therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I now would like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP & IR RELATIONS OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you. Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we'll turn the call over for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, President of Coca-Cola International; Steve Cahillane, President of Coca-Cola Americas; and Irial Finan, President of our Bottling Investments Group will also be available for the Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we've posted schedules under the financial reports and information tab in the investor section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information.

Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. We delivered sequential volume growth in the third quarter, while capturing global nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage value shares for the 25th consecutive quarter. We gained volume and value share across core sparkling and juice drinks, sports drinks, and ready-to-drink teas. Importantly, we're able to do this in combination with a 2% increase in price mix. Excluding the impact of structural items, we generated comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth of 4% and strong operating income growth of 8%. Our broad diversified product portfolio, the disciplined approach to extracting and reinvesting savings, and our global geographic reach are enabling us to effectively navigate the still uncertain macroeconomic environment.

History has taught us that when we invest through difficult times we emerge even stronger. This quarter, our system delivered the highest number of servings ever reported in the third quarter, both for brand Coca-Cola and across our portfolio. In all, we delivered 181 billion servings, thanks to global volume growth of 2%, driven by 2% global growth in brand Coca-Cola. This record number of servings speaks not only to our system's worldwide strength, but also to the opportunities ahead of us as we engage with the next generation of global consumers. Our global still brands also delivered solid results growing 3% and gaining global value share. These third-quarter results bring our year-to-date volume growth to 2%, cycling 5%.

In line with our expectations for the third quarter, we delivered sequential volume growth in many key markets including North America, China, India, and regions across Europe. That said, clearly, the global economy remains challenged, as noted by the international monetary fund last week, which trimmed its forecast for global output for the sixth time since early last year. And as we have all noted, emerging markets have become increasingly more volatile further exasperating a challenging global landscape. Hence, disposable income in consumer spending have become challenged and consummately have impacted the overall growth of the non-alcohol ready-to-drink industry. Yet despite these on-going headwinds, our business remains healthy and we continue to invest in the strength of our brands.

We are fully implementing our productivity and reinvestment plans and together with our global bottling partners, we continue to advance our system. All of this leads us to remain confident in our ability to drive our volume growth trajectory back in line with our long-term growth model over time. Looking first to our operations in North America, brand Coca-Cola grew an impressive 2% in the quarter, leading our total beverage portfolio to 2% growth on top of 2% growth in the prior-year quarter. Year-to-date volume growth in North America is even as we cycled 2%. Sparkling beverages were even in the quarter with sparkling price mix increasing 1%. Year-to-date sparkling price mix is up 2% as we remain committed to a rational pricing environment.

We also remain focused on consistent investments in packaging innovation, in immediate consumption growth, and increased team recruitment, all of which are yielding positive results. Specifically, packages like the 1.25-liter and mini packs, mini can packs, have increased our household base by more than 1.8 million in the last year. In addition, Coca-Cola has generated over 19 million incremental immediate consumption transactions year-to-date, and importantly, Coca-Cola remains the most preferred beverage brand amongst teens by a 2 to 1 margin. Still beverage volume grew a solid 5%, with volume and value share gains across the energy, juice and juice drinks, water, and tea categories.

In sports drinks, we gained volume share while maintaining value share. As these results indicate, our revenue growth management strategies are working and enabling our system to provide consumers the brands they love, the convenience that they crave, and the value that they need while also expanding our top line. We continue to outperform the industry, gaining volume and value share across both sparkling and still categories. I'm also pleased to share that we are making progress on the evolution of our North America system, as our North America team continues to advance discussions with existing and prospective partners who are eager to be part of this dynamic franchise system.

Turning now to Latin America, our volume growth was even in the third quarter cycling 5% growth, and coupled with a double-digit increase in price mix due primarily to continued and disciplined focus on price and pack architecture enhancements, as well as inflationary environments in some markets. Across the region, we gained non-alcoholic ready-to-drink volume share, making this the 25th consecutive quarter that we have maintained or gained volume share. Similar to what we have experienced in other markets, we're seeing a slowdown in economic growth in Mexico and Brazil. Falling GDP growth rates have led to slower growth rates in personal consumption and, consequently, in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. As in other instances where we have witnessed economic slowdowns in recent years, we're expanding our marketing efforts while actively working with our bottling partners to invest in these markets and to offer consumers attractive price pack combinations. Examples include the expansion of returnable glass bottle distribution, and initiatives to ensure affordability tied to magic price points. Outside of Mexico and Brazil, we experienced solid performance with volume growth of 4% in the quarter.

Moving on now to Europe, we again witnessed diverging results with 3% volume growth in Northern European countries, offset by a 5% volume decline in countries that make up Central and South Europe, for a net decline of 1% in our European business in the third quarter. In spite of this challenging environment, we gained volume share in core sparkling across the entire continent, while continuing to strengthen our competitive positions across the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry in our Central and Southern European business units. Price mix increased 8% in the quarter, including the impact of the consolidation of Innocent. Our Share a Coke campaign was extremely well received. We placed over 2.5 billion customized packages into the market to drive team recruitment and further bolster immediate consumption.

Lastly, our operations in Germany continue to perform well, delivering 3% growth in the quarter, cycling 3%. This performance was fueled by high single-digit growth in brand Coca-Cola and double-digit Coke Zero growth. Sprite and Fanta also contributed to growth in the quarter in Europe. The Eurasia and Africa group grew 4%, cycling 11%, as we maintained focus on broadening distribution, honing our marketing efforts, and strengthening brand loyalty in the more than 80 countries that make up our business in this dynamic region. Volume growth grew 4%, led by brand Coca-Cola which grew 3%, and Sprite which grew 4%. Still beverage volume grew 3% in the quarter.

The Eurasia and Africa group maintained volume share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, while growing volume share in sparkling beverages and juice and juice drinks. Both the Middle East and North Africa business unit and the Central East and West Africa business unit maintain their strong first half volume performance in the third quarter. On a year-to-date basis, the Eurasia and Africa group is up high single digits, cycling 10% growth, and has been an important contributor to our year-to-date performance. Our Pacific group delivered 5% growth in the quarter, improving sequentially from the second quarter and cycling 4% from the prior-year quarter. Sparkling beverages led with 5% growth as brand Coca-Cola delivered 7% growth and Sprite grew 5%. Still beverage volume also grew 5% in the quarter while cycling 7% growth.

As noted during our second-quarter call, we anticipated a better second half of the year in China and I'm pleased to report that we were able to deliver 9% volume growth in the quarter, led by 8% growth in sparkling beverages. Earlier this year, we began to evolve our strategies in China to reflect the current economic and competitive environment and also to position ourselves for continued sustainable profit growth. Our business in India delivered 6% growth in the quarter, cycling double digits. We achieved this growth while increasing prices across our juice brands to offset higher cost of goods. In addition, volume grew by strong double digits in September, once the impact of the extended monsoons abated. Brand Coca-Cola again led the way with 22% growth in the quarter.

We are pleased with these results and with our solid volume and value share gains across sparkling and still beverages in India. Looking ahead, we have strong marketing programs planned for the fourth quarter of this year and into next year. I'm particularly excited about two iconic marketing programs that will ignite consumer passions across key markets. Specifically, the Olympic torch relay recently departed from ancient Olympia as it begins its relay journey across Russia. And the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour is also under way, with stops planned in 89 countries where passions for futbol run high.

Further, throughout our Company's history, we've always been at the forefront of cultural change in forming the conversation, inspiring our youth to act, and bringing resources to our local communities all across the world. This legacy has strained our thinking about forging effective and lasting partnerships, creating shared value and making a positive societal difference in areas that are of critical importance to our business, specifically water, woman, and well-being. Returning to our global performance, we benefited from marked sequential improvement in several key markets. We achieved robust and widespread growth of our flagship brand, and we delivered solid financial results.

Our efforts to enhance the health of our system are working, as evidenced by our broad-based growth, improving execution, and strong cash generation. At the same time, we also acknowledge that we have more work to do, as we will no doubt face headwinds as we work towards our 2020 vision. Nevertheless, the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry is a vibrant and rewarding business to compete in and our business has consistently grown. And I can assure you that the underlying forces that shaped our 2020 vision just a few years ago remains very much intact today. Together with our global system partners, our road map is enabling us to strategically invest, both through good times and challenging times, to deliver long-term sustainable performance.

I'll now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. Our third-quarter results underscore several key points. First, the global economy is still struggling to recover, with increasing volatility across emerging markets. Second, slowing economic growth clearly impacted consumer spending and overall non-alcoholic ready-to-drink industry growth in the quarter. And third, in spite of these macro trends, our strategies and solid execution enabled us to once again capture global value share and to deliver solid financial performance. As Muhtar said, we grew our global volume 2% in the quarter, while at the same time delivering solid financial results. While we're pleased with this sequential volume improvement, we remain focused on further advancing our volume growth trajectory over time. Concentrate sales were slightly below unit case volume growth in the quarter, but were in line with unit case sales year-to-date.

Moving on to our financial results, each of our geographic operating units contributed to comparable currency-neutral operating income growth in the quarter. Comparable currency-neutral net revenues were even, both in the quarter and year-to-date. Excluding the impact of structural items, this would primarily be the Philippines and the Brazil bottler, net revenues increased 4% for the quarter and 3% year-to-date. We realized a healthy 2% global price mix for the quarter, and 1% price mix year-to-date. Importantly, year-to-date price mix was positive across each of our geographies, with the exception of the Pacific due to geographic mix. Also, as you know, we consolidated the Innocent brands in Europe, which helped our price mix in the quarter. But just to be clear, our global price mix was 2% without the Innocent brands benefit.

As expected, our gross margins moderated somewhat this quarter due to geographic mix. We expect our full-year gross margins to be relatively in line with our year-to-date comparable gross margins. Excluding the impact of structural items, we achieved 5 points of favorable operating expense leverage for the quarter, while we continued to support our brands through increased marketing investments. Our operating expense leverage now stands at 3 points year-to-date, and we expect low single-digit leverage for the full year. As a reminder, we are cycling the reversal of expenses related to one of our long-term incentive plans in the fourth quarter of last year.

Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 7% this quarter and 5% year-to-date. Excluding the impact of the structural items, operating income grew 8% in the quarter and 6% year-to-date. Therefore, we now expect our full-year operating income to be generally in line with our year-to-date performance. On a comparable basis, the impact of currency was a 5% headwind on this quarter's operating income results, a full point more than we expected due to the -- and this is due to the weakening of many of the emerging market currencies. We now anticipate continued currency headwinds will have an unfavorable impact on operating income in the 5% to 6% range in the fourth quarter.

Comparable earnings per share grew 4% in the third quarter, despite currency headwinds of about 5%. Year-to-date comparable earnings per share also grew 4%, despite headwinds from currency of about 4%. We generated $7.7 billion in cash from operations year-to-date, and have repurchased $2.7 billion of our shares in line with our plans to repurchase $3 billion to $3.5 billion this year. Equity income came in lower than in the prior year quarter due to the ongoing challenging macroeconomic conditions around the world. We expect equity income will continue to be impacted by these factors.

Let me now provide you just with a couple of reminders as we look to the balance of the year. Looking forward, as mentioned in our second-quarter earnings call, we anticipate that bottling transactions, including the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations early in the third quarter, will have a 3% structural impact on our full-year 2013 net revenues. Likewise, our full-year operating income results should see a 1% negative structural impact. In closing, we are strategically navigating through these challenging macroeconomic times, investing in our business, steadily strengthen our competitive position, and to drive balanced growth and long-term sustainable performance.

Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from Dara Mohsenian from Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Muhtar, I was hoping for more granularity on emerging markets given the Q3 slowdown, particularly in Latin America, which was in contrast to some improvement we saw in China and India. So can you give us an update on the macro environment as you look around the world? And also, some of the strategies you mention you were implementing, are you gaining traction at this point from a market share standpoint? And should we expect to see volume performance in emerging markets improve as we look out going forward from here?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Dara, good morning. I think first it's important to realize that there is different timing across the world to some of the volatility and macroeconomics, and particularly what's interesting for us which is disposable incomes. So I think China has already had a slowdown and is beginning to recover. We see that. And there's always also a lag between the GDP per capitas and disposable income. So also important to realize that they don't all happen at the same time. The numbers don't correspond to each other one-to-one.

And so we do see an improvement in Southeast Asia and parts of certainly China, where things have stabilized and things, people are beginning to normalize their habits. And in the last three, four months we've seen a flight of currency from emerging markets, market stock exchanges in countries back into North America. That's had impact on disposable incomes in Latin America, in Eurasia, in countries like Turkey, and other countries, in certain other countries in North Africa. So, yes, those -- and you can track stock exchange indexes and you can track disposable income growth or slowdowns. They are all very related and we do see that the world is not just one city or one element of volatility. There's different pockets of volatility happening at the same time. And what is, what we are fortunate with is the great portfolio, a wonderful portfolio where India slowed down maybe seven, eight, nine months ago.

We see some comeback in terms of disposable income I'm talking about, and China is the same. Southeast Asia I would say are similar. Philippines also pretty much in that camp. And then we certainly also see that we've still got some headwinds maybe in other parts of the world. So there's some tailwinds coming and some headwinds coming. And we continue to invest in our brands and when you look at our performance, we have sequential improvement in many parts of the world, particularly when you look at places like India, places like China, Atayan, even also developed markets such as Australia and also South Africa. And our African continent, I haven't mentioned that, countries that are some sub-South Africa that are usually south of 80 per capita, again, grew in a very healthy manner this past quarter, about 5% up. And we expect Africa to continue to generate good results and economies in Africa seem to be pretty buoyant and seem not to be too impacted. But of course they are very slow level of their per capita development as well. I hope that helps.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Yes, that's helpful. And then some of the strategies you're implementing, do you think it's helping to drive an improvement in market growth at all or drive market share gains? And do you feel comfortable that emerging markets trends have bottomed in general at this point and we should see some improvement going forward, or is it still too volatile to call right now?

MUHTAR KENT: I thinks it's pretty -- as I said, different pockets showing different results, but we have a very, very sharp focus on -- I was down in Latin America recently a month ago. I visited many countries in Africa recently as well as in Asia. We have an incredibly sharp focus on brand price pack channel architecture, new price points, lower price points, more focus on affordability, more focus on returnable packs and smaller packs. Individual packs that help continue to keep the drinkers' base growing, which is key and essential to when economies also start turning up and when disposable income starts heading north.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everybody.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

BILL PECORIELLO: Muhtar, critics have said that Coke's growth story is over, reflected in the stock price, pointing to the slowing emerging market growth you were just talking about, declines in diet soft drinks. Some say the pricing in the US is irrational, and an inability to grow in big markets like US and Mexico. Can you explain why you still see solid growth ahead for the Company? And what the Company is doing in terms of innovation, productivity, you mentioned price pack earlier, to drive that growth and why the critics who have declared the growth story is over are wrong? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, thanks, Bill. First, philosophically, from a strategic vantage point, the whole story of balanced growth we believe is still very impact. Balance being growth in western markets, growth in emerging markets, balance being growth in sparkling and growth in still beverages. And you see that happening in this past quarter as well. So we've grown in markets like the United States, which we believe is a long-term growth market. When you think about it, 14 of the last -- of the last 14 consecutive quarters, we've grown in all but one of them. And now we've generated, again, 2% growth, with 2% growth of brand Coca-Cola.

So we -- Australia grew. Many important markets in Western Europe grew. Germany grew again 3%. Countries in Northwest Europe generated good healthy growth for us. And then emerging markets. Yes, there's some headwinds that are happening in emerging markets but we believe they are very temporary. The whole demographic, the whole investment, the whole story of 1 billion new middle class still holds very strong in our opinion by 2020. Over this past decade that we're in, this decade that we're in, a billion new middle class.

That bodes very well for the industry we're in and we believe we can continue to generate very healthy good growth. We believe we can continue to generate very healthy price earnings. I mean, I'm sorry, price mix. And we believe that, therefore, in this, like in this past quarter which was where we did see a lot of headwinds, we generated 4% revenue growth and 8% currency-neutral operating income growth. And we believe that we had a lot of headwinds. So as economies begin to move, I think we'll see a lot of improvement. And I'll ask Ahmet as well to make some comments on this and if need be also ask Steve to add his commentary.

AHMET BOZER, PRESIDENT COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Muhtar. Bill, you mentioned a few items. I'll just focus on a couple of them. Emerging markets, as you know, if you look at the history that it goes through cycles. So it has a cycle of years and years of growth and every now and then you have economic headwind, and you manage through that. But emerging growth, emerging markets growth economically certainly isn't over, and we have a formula which pretty much closely shows that as personal consumption grows, we actually grow with it.

Now, having said that, in some of the emerging markets where there might be personal consumption and macro headwinds, we could still grow, like India, because we have very low per caps and we have significant investments in feet on the street, infrastructure, brands. We're just really building our business. And India showed that again this year. So that's what I would say about your comment of emerging markets. The growth story there is far from over for a long time to come. And I guess the rest were about US pricing and decline in soft drinks. So maybe I should just pass that on to Steve.

STEVE CAHILLANE, PRESIDENT COCA-COLA AMERICAS, THE COCA-COLA CO: Yes. Thanks, Ahmet. First, I would just underscore on the broader question, what Muhtar said in his prepared remarks, that in this quarter we delivered the highest number of servings ever reported in the third quarter. So I think that bodes well for our growth story going forward. But with regards to North America pricing, which I heard you ask, Bill, and in particular, sparkling price. We feel good about delivering positive price mix in the quarter of plus 1%, in line with our strategy to consistently earn at least 1 to 2 points of sparkling with consumers. And in the US Coke system remains committed to taking rational pricing and we've done this very well over the past several years. In fact, we achieved 2 to 3 points of price mix in sparkling beverages and across our total portfolio in both 2011 and 2012. Year-to-date, we're 2% sparkling price mix, which we feel good about.

But I think it's important to remember, we've always said that we're going to focus on consumer-centric pricing. And if I can give you an example of that, the average price today of an 8-ounce serving of Coca-Cola is $0.25, exactly $0.25. This is up over 5% versus two years ago and it's up nearly 10% versus three years ago, which compares very favorably to the US inflation market. And this tells me really three things. First, at $0.25 we do not have an affordability issue. Coca-Cola remains a very affordable indulgence. Two, we've been able to earn price above inflation in the United States. And three, we still have plenty of room to continue to take price.

But now addressing the third quarter in particular, we acknowledge we did strategically invest in select promotional activity in the back half of the summer through the Labor Day holiday. Given that we essentially didn't have much of a Fourth of July holiday and Memorial Day holiday, this Labor Day acted much more like a Fourth of July holiday. But these investments were tied to specific occasion-based brands and packages to help drive incremental household penetration, which they did, attract more consumers into the category, which happened, and is very much in line with our long-standing North American strategy. And all of these activities that we did, all of them, to take price in the marketplace, I think set us up very well to take more price in this quarter and going into 2014. So we're very confident that the pricing environment in North America remains very rational and that we'll be able to continue to earn price in the marketplace in this quarter and going forward in the next year.

AHMET BOZER: Yes, just let me round out that question with one final remark, Bill, and that is that once again if you take our world average per capita of around 90, just under 90, and you take the most populous nations of the world that are less than half of that per capita, India, China, Indonesia. Way below that number, way below half of that number, we believe there's -- and many other parts of the world as well in Africa, the youngest billion, we believe the critics, whoever they are, are wrong. I don't understand that sentiment. We're growing while others are not at the moment. And our business and balanced portfolio is built for times like these. So we see this as a time of opportunity.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question or comment comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Hello, good morning.

AHMET BOZER: Good morning.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Question about Mexico and excise taxes. It's been in the press over the last, especially more so over the last couple of weeks, and in speaking to some of your bottling partners in Mexico specifically, it seems like they are more resigned to the potential that it's going to be a reality. So if you could talk a little bit about just how you see the situation unfolding in Mexico and to the extent you'll get an excise tax increase, how you plan -- or do you plan to do anything differently in Mexico in response to it? Maybe some thoughts about elasticity? And then finally, just any concern that there's spill-over into other markets would also be helpful?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Look, Bryan, firstly let me just address that by saying regressive taxes do not work, period. And wherever we have seen them being implemented in some cases, they have been taken away by the government after two, three years, basically like in Denmark. They are not working wherever else they have been implemented, and so the consumer suffers in them. It's proven time and time after again. We've made our case to the government. We have tremendous respect for the government of President Pena Niento. And we need to understand that, and we've made our case that this really does not have anything to do with health policy. In order to address the health policy properly, we have to come and work together with government and with civil society to raise the awareness and to create programs that really work. That really drive physical activity and, therefore, just a regressive discriminatory tax on one part of the food industry just is not going to work and apparently that's all I would really like to say, because its discussions are in progress and I don't want to comment any further.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Are there any preparations for -- I guess, just trying to understand if it does become a reality, do you have plans in place to deal with it if it does occur?

MUHTAR KENT: I just don't want to comment on it at this moment. As I said, there are a lot of discussions going on and it would be wrong for me to publicly comment on any of those discussions and, therefore, we'll deal with whatever the result is in the most effective way. I can assure you that we will continue to prosper the business. We're one of the largest, we are the largest consumer goods business in the country. We are one of the largest contributors to the GDP in that country by a big margin, and we support millions of retailers in the country effectively for their livelihood and, therefore, I think that we will certainly find the right way forward, whatever happens.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question or comment comes from John Faucher from JPMC.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you very much. Muhtar and Gary, you guys talked about the price mix number improving sequentially, which was good to see. So Gary, can you talk a little bit about how you see this playing out over the next 12 to 24 months? Where you have the negative geographic mix offset by the positive mix on a per case basis is the bottler territories, where you own the bottler gets better like North America, versus the absolute level of pricing. How should we look at those factors competing against each other to try and map something out?

And then one other housekeeping question, which was your comments on operating profit for the year, could you just revise those and, or restate those, just because there's some confusion about whether it was currency-neutral or non-currency-neutral, what have you? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Okay, John. Let me see how well I can do on this and then you can come back and ask. But first, going to price mix, and just as a reprise in general on price mix, generally what we see, and I'm going to take this in steps, generally what we see is you see pricing. So you see rate and mix, positive rate and mix, would be positive across almost all of the groups. You would then see negative, generally, you would see negative geographic mix and it's basically a function of higher growth in emerging market countries than developed market countries, which would give you a negative geographic mix. Then on top of that, and you're absolutely right, then where we own bottlers and they're growing, and that gives you then a positive price mix because they're finished products versus concentrate.

So a couple things. So if you go back to the second quarter, I talked about margins and I thought margins would moderate and because of geographic mix. And the follow-up to questions I remember, I said because we expect North America to actually perform better and that will actually hurt margins because it's a finished product business where margins are lower. But it helps price mix. And what you're seeing today is while price mix in North America was even for the quarter, we are getting positive price mix from our finished product businesses.

Going forward, and not talking specifically about 2014 because we're still in the midst of planning 2014 and we'll give you a full review on our views on next year in the February call, we are planning to take appropriate pricing and Steve referred to taking pricing in North America as well. So we are expecting to take pricing. So going forward, what I would expect to see is that we should have a positive in rate going forward. We should have a positive in mix going forward. We should have a positive from finished products going forward. And we should have a negative from geographic mix. So that's the kind of -- and if you add all of that up, it should be a positive price mix. That's what we would expect and it's what we would expect as what's in our long-term earnings road model, is positive price mix long term.

Now, let me see if I can turn to operating income. When I was talking about operating income, it was definitely currency-neutral. It was -- and ex structural. So let's be very clear on both of those, currency-neutral and ex structural So operating income was 8% currency-neutral ex structural for the quarter, and 6% year-to-date currency-neutral ex structural. And what I said was we now expect the full year to be generally in line with the first half of the year. So somewhere in that ball park and that is net of currency-neutral and net of the structural impact because I can tell you with the structural impact, it's a point of negative structural impact and so that would take our year-to-date from 6% to 5%, for example. So just to be clear, ex structural, currency-neutral.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So, and I'm not trying to trick you into guidance or anything here, but it basically sounds like you're saying currency-neutral, ex structural, mid-single digits year-to-date. So, therefore, that implies the Q4 but then you talked about the currency impact. So as we're looking at those, should basically offset to get you to slight operating profit growth for the quarter?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, without giving guidance, what we're basically saying is that the full year we think ex structural and ex currency, it ought to be in line pretty much with where we are year-to-date.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay.

GARY FAYARD: Yes.

JOHN FAUCHER: Thank you very much.

GARY FAYARD: Okay.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. I had one follow-up question on North America and then a question about Europe. So in North America, there's been a lot written about the declines that we've seen in diet sodas. And, Steve, I'm not sure if you went through that and whether you shared some of the similar concerns that people have written about the decline in diets and your perspective on whether the artificial sweetener issue is impacting that category at all and from your strategy in dealing with that situation?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Steve, you want to address that?

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes, thanks, Judy. First, I did talk specifically about diets. I would underscore that we have a very wide portfolio in North America led by brand Coca-Cola, which is twice the size of Diet Coke, and brand Coca-Cola, as you know, grew 2% in the quarter which we're very pleased with. Diet Coke is like a lot of diet products in the United States, and not just beverages but across the whole array of food, are under a bit of pressure as people are questioning ingredients, ingredient safety, and so forth. But we believe very strongly in the future of Diet Coke, the number two sparkling brand in the United States. We've got terrific programs against it. We're actually seeing increased incidents in the past quarter, between 19- and 24-year olds. We think a lot of that has to do with the exciting new promotions with Taylor Swift, some of the new packaging we're bringing into the marketplace, an increased focus on Diet Coke.

But there are headwinds. There are headwinds that we're facing. And we face headwinds in a lot of different areas, a lot of different places, and this is just one of them. But last year it became the second best selling sparkling in the United States and we're continuing to focus on it. Coke Zero, also a part of our zero-calorie portfolio, grew mid-single digits in the quarter. So we're very happy about that. We've got a great program around Coke Zero, College GameDay just kicked off, it's really becoming ever-more relevant with young males. So we're confident that throughout our whole portfolio, we're offering consumers exactly what they want, when they want it, how they want it, at the right prices that they want it, and we'll continue to focus on any of the headwinds around Diet Coke. And we're confident that it has a bright future in this country.

JUDY HONG: Okay. And then just on Europe, the improvement that we saw in Northwest Europe and Germany as well, to what do you attribute that to? Perhaps weather getting much better in the quarter as opposed to the macros in consumers and what you guys are doing to really rejuvenate growth in those markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, Judy this, is Muhtar. First, I think it's important to understand that, and I've said this in the past, that economies that are performing at a different pace in the continent of Europe, not everywhere is really bad, not everywhere is really good. And so you still have very challenging consumer sentiments in Spain and Italy and Greece and Portugal and the South, in Southeast Europe, in what used to be termed as the Balkans, Romania, Bulgaria, former Yugoslavia. It's very challenging environment. And then you've got a better environment in Northwest Europe and then certainly the best environment still in Germany. And so based on those, our business also reflects some of those conditions and so it's a pretty good mirror actually. And I'll ask Irial to comment on Germany and why we've been consistently performing in Germany and growing our business and, again, there is tremendous sequential improvement versus the first half in many countries of Northwest Europe, in Scandinavia and also Northwest European countries. Irial?

IRIAL FINAN, PRESIDENT BOTTLING INVESTMENTS GROUP, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar. And this actually goes back to one of the earlier questions. I think in Germany we've got an economy that's doing okay. We have got actually really good marketing married up with continued excellent execution. And you bring all of that together and you get great results. And for me in Germany, it gives me great confidence about the future of our business, quite frankly, because we are seeing where we put in the hard work, where we do the right things in the business, we do get good results. And Germany is just an example of what can happen, quite frankly, in many markets around the world as the economies turn and improve.

MUHTAR KENT: Ahmet, do you want to comment?

AHMET BOZER: Yes, I just wanted to -- hello, Judy. I just wanted to add to the others that we had a very, very strong Share a Coke campaign across Europe this summer that worked extremely well. We are ever-more closely aligned with our bottling partners, really driving growth. And just on the macro, I would like to add that there's a clear divergence between North and South. So North continues to do better and South continues to do worse. So our business in the North certainly is reflective of that.

JUDY HONG: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello, good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

BILL SCHMITZ: Hey, can you just talk about the timing of some of the refranchise in the US? Because I think we talked a lot about it earlier in the year and it's kind of hit a lull recently? And then I have a follow-up, if I may.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think it's on target, as we have said, reported previously, where we make very sound significant good progress with, in discussions with some of our existing partners, as well as discussions ongoing with some other prospective partners. So we are on target, if not a little bit ahead. And I think you'll hear more about it in the coming period ahead of us, and I'll ask Steve just to maybe shed some more light on it.

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes, thanks, Muhtar. Bill, the one thing I would really underscore is we absolutely have not hit a lull. Don't take the absence of public commentary to mean that we are not making very good, very constructive progress. All our bottling partners, both current and prospective, are extremely excited about this business in the United States, about the opportunity to continue to be franchise partners in the United States, to grow the business in the United States, and we're making very exciting progress and we'll have more to report in the coming months.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great. Thanks so much. And then just on the SG&A costs, can you just give us a little bit more color on what drove some pretty significant efficiencies, which is obviously great, but with the advertising ratio flat or up and then maybe what drove some of the other improvements on that line item?

MUHTAR KENT: Talking about productivity, Bill?

BILL SCHMITZ: Yes, productivity and SG&A broadly, yes.

MUHTAR KENT: I'll ask Gary, do you want --?

GARY FAYARD: Sure, Bill. Within the quarter, we continue to invest in marketing, so marketing is actually up in the quarter and up year-to-date. We had significant productivity savings in the quarter. We have some previously announced productivity programs that we announced back in 2012. Those 2012 programs will go through 2015, and really focus around productivity and then reinvesting those back into the business. They were focused on information systems, marketing, supply chain, innovation, operational excellence, that sort of thing.

I can tell you, we'll give you a full update on it at the year-end call, so I can give you the full year. But we are making very good progress against the goals and you'll see that on the February call when we go through a full update. And we've got hard savings and soft savings. So let me give you some examples of what's happening and it's adding into the productivity and some of the leverage that you're seeing.

So in things like supply chain, if you buy things cheaper, hard savings. And we're doing a lot around supply chain and actually getting a lot of hard savings. And those you're seeing being reflected. In marketing, if you can buy media cheaper, then we just buy more media basically is what we're doing. So we're reinvesting back into marketing and being able to buy more media for the same price, if you will. So we, as I say, we'll give you a full update on all the productivity programs in February at our year-end call. But we're making excellent progress and you're seeing a lot of that just what's coming through the G&A line with, as I say, within that marketing, SG&A marketing, being up for the quarter and year-to-date.

BILL SCHMITZ: Got you. Was there any benefits from the incentive compensation accruals either this quarter, maybe into the fourth quarter as well?

GARY FAYARD: Very, very little. There's a huge cycling of last year in the fourth quarter, as I've mentioned earlier. But there's very little. I mean, there's a little bit but nothing of significance in the quarter this year.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great. Thanks so much.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Ali Dibadj from Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hello, guys, thanks. Just one quick thing and then a real question. So I just want to underscore something again, because it's a key controversy and, look, I'll be fair. I think what Steve said a moment ago is music to a lot of investors' ears. And I want to just replay to make sure I understand. So did you say that the past couple months in North America from a price promo investment perspective, we're a little bit more of a blip and that we should expect something like higher pricing that we saw in 2011 and 2012 going forward in North America?

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes, thanks, Ali. I think that's a fair interpretation of what I said. This was a very different summer. It's been a difficult year starting with the fiscal cliff and sequestration and payroll taxes and so forth. And then the summer was very sluggish and it's very important in our business to keep consumers engaged with our brands, to make sure that we're in the households, to make sure that teens are being recruited. And so Labor Day acted very much like a Fourth of July or Memorial Day, whereas typically it would not. It would be the end of summer.

And Labor Day acted like the only summer, so it was more promotional than you would have seen. It would be more promotional than what we would expect going forward. But those things happen from time to time. And we think that the pricing environment will continue to be very strong, very rational, and because of all the investments we're making in our brands, we feel that we have the opportunity to earn even more price going forward in the marketplace. And that would be absolutely our intention to do that.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay. That makes perfect sense.

MUHTAR KENT: And I just want to add one thing. In terms of the Nielsen data, yes, that's exactly the reflection. But don't underestimate. We took very healthy pricing and I see also in the quarter. And so, overall, that's how you get to the one price mix positive on sparkling. And so, don't let that point go unnoticed at the moment.

ALI DIBADJ: I appreciate that. That makes a lot of sense. And then a broader question, and I don't know how often you revisit this, but what do you think the Company has to grow volumes between now and 2020 to deliver on the 2020 vision, given some of the recent slowdown in volumes? And I guess in that context, do you think as a Company you have to acquire more to reach that vision?

MUHTAR KENT: I would say that first, we believe that our long-term growth model, with appropriate mix which we believe we can take and we can generate, it would definitely get us to our 2020 vision of, from a system revenue point of view, of doubling our business with the base of 2010. So that's the sort of trajectory, if you like, and we're on track in terms of moving ahead to doing, achieving our goal. The second piece is we'll always be looking for any kind of bolt-on acquisitions that may make sense, but that's the extent of what I would say that right now we would be looking at. Bolt-on acquisitions and if there's an opportunity, we will look at it seriously.

ALI DIBADJ: And from a difference of volume versus price mix to reach the system doubling goal, has it shifted at all between the two?

MUHTAR KENT: Sorry, say that again?

ALI DIBADJ: Well, so to double the system sales by 2020, there is perhaps an ingoing assumption of what would be from volume and what would be from price mix. Has the recent global slowdown shifted that mix at all between volume growth and price mix growth to reach the doubling of sales?

MUHTAR KENT: I don't think materially. You know, if you look at our long-term growth of corridor of volume plus what we've been achieving, I think the balance is still there the same as it used to be.

ALI DIBADJ: Thanks very much. Very helpful.

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Wendy Nicholson from Citi Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI RESEARCH: Hello, thanks, good morning. First question on China, can you talk about the acceleration, the pickup in volumes there, whether that was driven by any change in pricing or promotional levels? And what your outlook of a normalized run rate, because that region's just been so lumpy in terms of volume growth as we go into 2014, where's a base case of volume growth?

And then my second question is looking at the buyback program, the stock's on track for two years of relative under-performance, and we haven't seen that for a while and yet your target for buybacks hasn't changed since the beginning of the year. So I'm kind of surprised with the balance sheet you have, with the weakness in the stock, and certainly, Muhtar, with your resounding confidence about the long-term outlook, you're not getting more aggressive on the buyback here? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I'll have Ahmet just comment on China. Then maybe Gary can finish off the second part of the question. Sure.

AHMET BOZER: Thanks, Wendy. You might remember that in our last call, we talked about the fact that we were evolving both our organization and our strategy in China. And what we see in the third quarter really encourages us that we had not only 9% growth in total, but also 8% growth in sparkling. And that's pretty much delivers on the expectation that we've said that we would expect sequential improvement from the first half results, in the second half of this year, and we expect that sequential improvement from the first half results to continue into 2014.

To your question of pricing promotion, we did not have any significant marked pricing promotions in the marketplace. It was basically a combination of, A, beginning to implement parts of our new strategy in the marketplace, B, the same Share a Coke promotion as we're scaling up these wonderful global assets in all parts of the world. And then our new team beginning to gel together, connecting with our bottling system and really improving execution. So we are encouraged by those results and we expect to continue to, as I said, improve sequentially from the first half results.

MUHTAR KENT: Okay, Gary.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Wendy, relative to share repurchase, let me first, let me just start with a preface that don't particularly agree with you on saying our share price is relatively underperformed for the last two years. But absent that, a couple of thoughts on share repurchase. Our view on share repurchase is that share repurchase is value neutral. It is not something that grows value. It does for the short-term holder. Because maybe you can get a bump in the share price. But for the long-term holder, it is not something that is value-enhancing. It is much more like a cash-efficient dividend, which is the way we treat it in that our priorities for cash are number one, to reinvest in the business, to grow the business that would include bolt-on acquisitions, et cetera.

Number two would be dividends which we have increased for the last 51 years, 10% this year. And third, excess cash would be put into share repurchase and just because we don't need that cash in the business. So it's a return of cash to shareholders. But leveraging the balance sheet to do something that we would view as value-neutral, we don't think is the right thing to do so we continue to just perform exactly in line with the targets that we set at the beginning of the year. Thanks.

WENDY NICHOLSON: Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you Gary, Ahmet, Steve, Irial, and Jackson. We delivered sound third-quarter results within an ongoing challenged macroeconomic environment. While we saw sequential improvement in the business, we remain constructively discontent and resolutely focused on further advancing our growth trajectory. Our 2020 vision and long-term strategies remain firmly intact. And together with our global bottling partners, we're investing in our brands and our capabilities to further strengthen our system and to drive sustainable growth and value. As always, we thank you for your interest, your investment in our Company, and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131022e9af000ma
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,476 words
   PD
16 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's second-quarter 2013 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Participants will be announced by their name and company. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person.

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions. I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP & IR OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA CO: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, President of Coca-Cola International, Steve Cahillane, President of Coca-Cola Americas, and Irial Finan, President of our Bottling Investments Group, will also be available for the Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports and Information tab in the Investors section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures, which should be referred to by our Senior Executives during this morning's discussions, [which our results] is reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Our second-quarter volume performance came in below our expectations. There was a confluence of factors that collectively led to unusually weak second-quarter volume results. We continued to see [further] (technical difficulty) slowing economic conditions across the markets like Asia and Latin America and social unrest in southeast Europe, Middle East, and Brazil. On top of this, we were faced with unusually widespread wet and cold weather conditions across multiple regions including North America, across northern Europe and India, all of which impacted the entire industry. Consequently, we grew global volume 1% in the second quarter, leading to year-to-date volume growth of 3%. Our comparable currency neutral operating income, excluding structural, grew 5% year-to-date. And both in the quarter and year-to-date, we gained global volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, as well as in both sparkling and still beverages. These gains included volume and value share increases in core sparkling juice, tea, and water, all of which underscores the real strength of our brand and the global reach of our system.

While we are not happy with our second-quarter volume performance, I can assure you that we are intensely focused on improving those areas we can control to ensure better performance in the second half of the year. Looking forward, we remain absolutely confident in our 2020 Vision and in our system's ability to execute, to grow, and to create value all across the world. As we have often said during these challenging global economic times, there will occasionally be a bump in the road and the real strength of a business is how you deal with that bump. In that respect, together with our system bottling partners, we continue to invest in our brand, the strength in our system for the future, and to achieve our long-term growth targets. The fact that we have outperformed the industry in this most recent quarter reinforces our belief that we are navigating these circumstances in a way that further strengthens our position of leadership within this extremely vibrant and resilient beverage industry.

Let me now provide you with an overview of our business performance by operating group starting with North America. In North America, volume declined 1% in the quarter as a 4% decline in sparkling beverages offset 5% volume growth in our still beverage portfolio. Year-to-date, volume in North America was even. Prior to this quarter, we consistently grew our business in North America for 12 consecutive quarters. Unfortunately, we experienced an extremely wet and cold second quarter with more rain in the US in June than we have seen in 50 years and 44% more precipitation than in June of last year. This weather clearly impacted our entire industry's volume growth. Nevertheless, we gained sparkling volume and value share both in the quarter and year-to-date, reflecting the strength of our brand, and we have robust marketing plans in place for the balance of 2013.

Still beverages gained volume and value share in the quarter making this the 24th consecutive quarter that our still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained value share. Our growth in still beverages this quarter was led by strong performance across the ready-to-drink tea and packaged water categories, with brands such as Gold Peak, smartwater, and Dasani leading the way. Further, our volume and value share gains in the juices and juice drinks category were driven by solid growth for Simply and Minute Maid. We are confident that we are on the right track in North America and we continue to work diligently with our bottlers as we advance our refranchising plan. Indeed, we saw sequential improvement across the quarter in both the convenience retail and quick service restaurant channels, suggesting that category trends are beginning to improve.

While we do recognize that we still have work to do in North America, we remain laser-focused on the strategies that we have shared with you. First, we are building a balanced portfolio of strong brands, led by Coca-Cola, and ensuring that our portfolio remains relevant to all generations of consumers and across all beverage occasions. Second, we are focused on translating this brand value into unsurpassed customer value by delivering best-in-class customer service each and every single day. And third, we are continuously investing to build the capabilities we will need to sustain and to repeat our success. These strategies are taking a real hold and we are building on them with the evolution of the United States franchise system announced earlier this year. We therefore believe we are well-positioned to continue outperforming the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry for the balance of the year.

Turning now to Latin America, we grew volume 2% in the quarter and 3% year-to-date. Volume growth was a little softer in the quarter due to macroeconomic challenges in a few major markets, specifically increasing consumer debt levels and higher food inflation along with concern over transportation fees contributed to some civil unrest and softer consumer spending in Brazil. In Mexico, weaker job creation and higher inflation impacted disposable income, resulting in reduced retail sales. These macro factors led to low single-digit volume growth in Mexico while the volume results in Brazil were even. Given slower growth rates in personal consumption across the region, we estimate that, year-to-date, beverage industry growth rates are currently 1.5 to 2 percentage points lower than the average of the last four years in Latin America. In the second quarter, we again gained volume share in Latin America in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, including both volume share gains in both sparkling and still beverages.

Moving to brand performance, trademark Coca-Cola grew 1% during the quarter and maintained volume share within the sparkling beverages category. These results reflect sustained marketing across the brand and the category. Our other sparkling brands grew volume and value share in the quarter, as we expanded Mundet in Mexico and Fanta in Colombia while reigniting marketing behind Schweppes in both Brazil and Argentina. High single-digit growth in still beverages led to volume share gains in the quarter. These results were driven by the expansion of Fuze Tea, continued strong performance of the Del Valle portfolio and strong share gains in Powerade, thanks to superior execution of our program. We expect that our Latin America Group will return to rates of volume growth that we have been more accustomed to in the last few years given current dynamics. Continued marketing and bottler investments along with solid execution plans for the second half of the year will also contribute to this improvement. I will bring my Americas update to a close by congratulating the associates of Solar, our new bottling partner in Brazil. With the close of this transaction, Solar forms the second largest operation in The Coca-Cola Brazil system, serving over 70 million consumers.

Now turning to Coca-Cola International, starting with Europe. The weak economy continues to be a key factor affecting our performance in Europe, especially in the southern regions where unemployment remains high, while consumer confidence and expenditures remain low. We are seeing this continue to play out across most fast-moving consumer goods categories with several of them slowing between the first and second quarters. Additionally, historically wet and cold conditions across Europe, including the coldest spring for Germany in 40 years, further dampened already weak consumer sentiment and industry trends and contributed to volume declining 3% in Germany in the quarter. While our European volume fell 4% in the quarter and is down 2% year-to-date, we maintain the positive share momentum of the first quarter, growing volume and value share across total nonalcoholic beverages and core sparkling beverages.

Across the continent, our team and bottling partners are activating a number of marketing and trade execution programs. Among them is our new Share a Coke summer campaign, launched across Europe in May and early signs are very positive. In fact, excitement surrounding the launch helped to partially offset the impact of weather on immediate consumption. Our current European outlook remains cautious for the time being given ongoing macroeconomic conditions. However, we believe with our commitment to our brands and execution, we should continue to gain share through the remainder of the year.

Moving on to our Eurasia and Africa Group, we achieved 9% volume growth in the quarter, up double-digits year-to-date. All business units grew in the quarter with our Middle East and North Africa business unit as well as our Central East and West Africa business units delivering double-digit growth. For the quarter, we've strengthened our competitive position as we gained volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. Local execution of our global marketing campaign, along with continued price pack innovation, fueled this growth, which was led by brand Coca-Cola up 7% in the quarter and 9% year-to-date. Fanta and Sprite further contributed to core sparkling growth, while our still brands grew double-digits, led by Rani, Crystal, and Fuze Tea. Volume in Russia grew 3% with trademark Coca-Cola up double-digits. A successful sparkling promotion fueled Coca-Cola, Fanta, and Sprite growth as consumers collected under-the-cap points to obtain a limited edition set of limited Winter Olympic-themed glassware. In Spain and Portugal, we are encouraged by the early integration efforts underway at Coca-Cola Iberian Partners, our bottler in Spain and Portugal. We now have eight bottlers in those markets now operating as a single entity.

Shifting to our Pacific Group, we saw volume growth of 2% and we maintained nonalcoholic ready-to-drink value share. As is well publicized, China's economy has been slowing and this is now being felt in consumer spending. China's first half retail sales were the slowest in 10 years, while much of the growth in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry in the second quarter came from the value-orientated water category. As a result, our volume performance in China remained soft and was even for the quarter, cycling 7% growth from prior year. We command a leadership position in China in both brand preference and market share in sparkling as well as in juices and juice drinks. Sparkling volume grew 2% and our juices and juice drinks volume grew 7% year-to-date. This is driven by solid execution of key consumer and commercial initiatives and continual new product innovation. Looking forward, we are keenly focused on adjusting our strategies and improving our business in China. We recently strengthened our Management team in that region, adding to the already strong talent that we have in China and we are evolving our strategy, reallocating resources across our brand portfolio and strengthening our consumer communication. We anticipate a return to growth in our China business in the second half of the year.

In India, volume grew low single-digits in the quarter, cycling 20% growth last year, and importantly, we again improved our volume and value share of total nonalcoholic beverages, as well as sparkling and still beverages, further strengthening our competitive position as trademark Coca-Cola grew by double-digits. Our business in Japan delivered 1% volume growth while cycling 4% growth last year and we are seeing sequential improvements on share trends as we are moving through the year. Japan's sparkling beverage volume grew 1% in the quarter supported by the music-themed integrated marketing campaigns, such as the Zero Limit campaign for Coca-Cola Zero, up 13%. Solid growth in tea and sports drinks up 3% and 7% respectively also contributed to this momentum. Our Georgia Coffee performance was below our expectations and we are keenly focused on strategies and new launches to improve performance in the second half of the year.

I do want to acknowledge and congratulate our Coca-Cola East Japan associates on the successful completion of their merger and the launch of their Company on July 1. With this merger, our system is building on its deep roots and a 50-year history of strong partnerships in Japan. Coca-Cola East Japan will be well-positioned to meet the business growth needs of our customers while also engaging and refreshing consumers of all ages and lifestyles.

Lastly, our ASEAN business unit delivered strong results with 10% volume growth cycling double-digit growth from the previous year as Thailand, Indonesia, and Vietnam all delivered strong double-digit growth. Going forward, we expect to see an improvement in our Pacific Group's performance in the second half of the year. On a global scale, we were recently humbled by several accolades, including rising to number five on Barron's list of the World's Most Respected Companies and receiving the 2013 Creative Marketer of the Year award at the Cannes Lions International Festival.

In my 35 years of experience in the Coca-Cola system, I have learned that we proudly participate in one of the fastest growing and most dynamic industries in the world. As I think about the second quarter, nothing has changed in our ability to continue winning in this industry. There's no question that our system's commitment to superior execution is stronger than ever before and our business fundamentals remain firmly intact. Our leadership team is firmly in place and I'm confident in our ability to capitalize on the abundant opportunities that lie ahead. Given this, we are confident that we have the right strategies, we have the right vision, and the right initiatives to drive long-term sustainable growth and value. And our focus on achieving our 2020 Vision is unwavering with current dynamics leading us to believe that our performance will be better in the back half of the year. Why?

Quite simply a few important reasons. First, our global brands are stronger than ever and we will continue to invest in them to capture long-term volume and value share. Second, we have an unparalleled global business system focused on delivering on our 2020 Vision and, third, we have great confidence in our plans and we will sharpen our focus to ensure our resources are directed to those strategic priorities that will drive our business and certain key markets will return to growth. The nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry is and has always -- and always will be a terrific, terrific business. We will continue to capitalize on our unprecedented global reach, the broad portfolio of preferred premium brands, and superior system execution. And we continue to invest alongside our global bottling partners and we are well-positioned to effectively manage our Business for long-term profitable growth both in today's economic environment and also as we look forward to our future. With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. As Muhtar has shared, the industry clearly slowed a little due to a number of factors that impacted various markets around the world. The combination of these factors resulted in weaker volume performance in the second quarter than we expected. At the same time, we recognize the need for improved performance in certain markets. Having said that, we remain absolutely focused on doing the right things for the long-term health of the business and investing for long-term sustainable growth. Increasing share during times like these further strengthens our position and can ultimately lead to accelerated growth as market conditions normalize. And we continue to win on this front, gaining both global volume and value share in both total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages as well as volume and value share in global sparkling and still beverages. So let's review our results in more detail starting with a review of the key drivers of our financial performance.

Our second quarter and year-to-date financial performance reflects concentrated sales growth in line with unit case, volume growth, as well as a strong increase in direct marketing expenses, as we sustain our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands. From an operating segment standpoint, our operating income growth this quarter reflected strong profit growth in Latin America and Eurasia and Africa, as well as the continued solid financial performance of the Bottling Investments Group. Operating income in North America and Pacific was even while Europe experienced a slight decline in profit. Comparable currency neutral net revenue declined 1% this quarter and we were even year-to-date. However, excluding the impact of structural items, primarily the sale of the Philippines bottler, net revenues increased 2% both for the quarter and year-to-date. We continue to earn pricing in the marketplace, but at the consolidated level, the positive pricing was offset by the impact of geographic mix, resulting in even price mix for both the quarter and year-to-date.

Although geographic mix unfavorably impacted price mix at the consolidated level, it contributed to the improvement of our gross margin in the quarter and year-to-date. Our comparable gross margin was 61.2%. This represents a slight improvement compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of geographic mix, structural items, and our foreign currency hedging program. As we shared in our first quarter earnings call, we expect our gross margin to moderate somewhat over the remainder of this year primarily due to a shift in geographic mix. Excluding the impact of structural items, we achieved 2 points of favorable operating expense leverage for both the quarter and year-to-date and we now expect to achieve low single-digit operating expense leverage for the full year. On comparable currency neutral operating income, it was up 4% this quarter and year-to-date. Excluding the impact of structural items, operating income grew 5% year-to-date. On a comparable basis, the impact of currency was a 3% headwind on this quarter's operating income results. And based on our hedge positions, current spot rates and the cycling of our prior year rates, we expect currencies to be a 4% headwind on our operating income for the third quarter and full year.

Below the line, we have benefited from an increase in net interest income, an improved tax rate, and fewer shares outstanding due to our continued share repurchase program. We expect net interest income in the second half of the year to be relatively in line with comparable net interest income year-to-date. Additionally, we now expect our full-year tax rate to be 23% and we expect to hold this rate through 2014. Comparable earnings per share grew 4% in the second quarter despite currency headwinds of approximately 2%. Year-to-date comparable earnings per share also grew 4% despite currency headwinds of approximately 4%, as well as the impact of two fewer selling days. We continue to generate a strong $4 billion from cash from operations year-to-date, providing us significant financial flexibility. As I have shared with you over the years, we redeploy our cash flows utilizing a consistent and disciplined framework.

First, our first is to reinvest back into the Business and to strengthen our global system. Secondly, to continue to expand our portfolio and capabilities through bolt-on acquisitions and partnerships. Third, continue to return cash to shareholders through our dividends and we increased our dividend 10% in 2013, our 51st consecutive year of dividend increases. And lastly, repurchase shares. Year-to-date, our net share repurchases totaled $2 billion and we continue to expect full-year share repurchase to be between $3 billion and $3.5 billion. As you model our 2013 operating results, let me again remind you that the steps we have taken along with our bottling partners to strengthen our global system will have a structural impact on our operating results over the remainder of the year. As you're aware, we closed the transaction in the Philippines earlier this year and the merger of our bottling partners in Brazil and Japan recently closed.

As I shared in our 2012 year-end call, we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results. However, these transactions will impact various line items within our P&L. We anticipate that these transactions will have a 3% structural impact on our full-year 2013 net revenues. Likewise, our full-year operating income results should see a 1% structural impact. However, there should be a corresponding improvement in our equity income to account for our share of the results of these operations moving forward. Additionally, the structural impact from these transactions will be larger in the second half due to the impact of the deconsolidation of our Brazilian bottling operations beginning in the third quarter.

In closing, we delivered solid financial performance through the first two quarters of 2013 and we expect to continue our solid financial performance during the second half of this year. Our Company and our system are well-positioned to capitalize on the real opportunities for growth and we remain very confident as we continue to win in the marketplace with volume and value share, we continue to deliver solid financial results, we continue to innovate and invest in our brands, our global system continues to get stronger, and we are best-positioned to continue capturing growth in the dynamic nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry. Operator, we are now ready for any questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Muhtar, I was hoping you could step around the world and dive a little bit deeper into certain markets and regions to help us separate out the impact of nonrecurring factors that hit your second quarter. First is any macro related factors that can continue to pressure the business in the second half. You had mentioned macro factors in Brazil, Mexico, Europe, and China. Will those continue to be as big an impact in the second half as the second quarter and if not why? And then maybe if you could help quantify maybe what you think the weather-related impact was in the second quarter?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, hello, Bill, thanks. Overall both from -- in Europe, United States, India, some other parts, we did have a pretty significant impact from weather -- unusual weather, monsoons coming very early in India as you probably all read, many thousands missing in flooding, worst flooding since the tsunami back 10 years ago. So -- and then Europe -- also Central Europe, Germany, all the issues around the river beds rising and flooding and very heavy, wet conditions. So we did, yes, have impact both from a consumer sentiment, both from a mobility sentiment in the United States also, and both also from just the pure, in some cases, distribution issues that hindered our performance and as you know, when we lose a sale that doesn't recur any more, we lost it that day and so. And also in some cases we were cycling very unusually warm and favorable weather conditions from prior year in some cases like India last year the monsoons actually started later, that gave us a 20% growth in India, unusual for the second quarter in India. Usually the first half in India is always less than the second half in India because of the anomalies of the weather. So, yes.

And then macro conditions, we all have felt it in social issues in Southeast Europe, demonstrations across the Middle East, and then more recently in Brazil, but we feel confident both in terms of looking at our plans in place, looking at current dynamics, that both Brazil will have a better second half, China will have a better second half, Russia will have a better second half, and certainly a better quarter than this last quarter where we grew volume 3%. Overall, Mexico as well as India. So while we have -- we continue to invest in our brands, our brands are stronger than ever before, we have taken market share, our system is stronger and so all these key markets we believe will perform better in the second half. In fact, as I've said, we have seen this -- we always know that the second half in a country like India is significantly better than the first half. In any case, if you look back at our performance over last few years. So -- and then in the United States, we've got very robust plans to return back to growth.

So we feel pretty confident that this was a confluence of events that happened all at the same time. The portfolio effect of our global business did not work in our favor in this particular case in the second quarter and I feel and my colleagues feel and our bottlers feel very confident. I have been across many markets recently. I've traveled to China, Japan, Thailand, Myanmar, many other parts of Asia, I have been in Southeast Europe, I've been in France, and all in the last four, five weeks and I feel that we will look towards a definitely a better quarter volumetrically, and again, we can talk to you about how we feel about the financial numbers too later in the call and I can ask Gary to reflect on that too in terms of the second half. You want to -- Gary?

GARY FAYARD: Sure. Well, let me continue on [then] versus the volume. On the second half on the P&L, we had a very solid first half, we would expect to have a solid second half of the year as well. We have said there would be bumps along the road, the industry had one, obviously and it slowed. But we continued to take share and we feel very confident about the second half. As we look at the second half financial results, we will be very close to our long-term growth targets, particularly in volume and earnings per share should be coming back in line with what we would all have been expecting at the first of this year.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I would just add, Bill, that this is more an anomaly. We should not see this as a trend or a systemic issue and that is simply how I believe one should think about it and again I can ask Steve and Ahmet to reflect upon how they see the second half from their vantage point in both Americas and International. Maybe Steve, you can start?

STEVE CAHILLANE, PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA AMERICAS, THE COCA-COLA CO: Sure. Thanks, Muhtar. Starting with Latin America, Muhtar said it well. We saw things in Brazil that we hadn't seen before the economy slowed. There was social unrest. It didn't last very long, things are slowly getting back to normal, and we expect a better performance sequentially as we progress through the year in Brazil and in Mexico. In Latin Center and in South Latin, we have seen very good results. High single-digit results continue so there's a lot still going very well that continue to go well in Latin America and Brazil and Mexico, getting back to what we would expect to see on a normal basis. In North America, Muhtar said it, it's -- we don't like to talk about the weather, but the first half of last year saw unusually good weather conditions. We had warm weather, we had dry weather coming out of winter and going into spring. This year in North America we had some of the worst weather and you've all seen it. It's been very wet, it's been very cold, it's been historically wet and cold, which obviously impacts our business.

On top of that, we had the payroll tax effect which started at the beginning of the year, which affects lower income households, obviously much more, affects their disposable income, their ability to spend. We saw late payroll tax -- late payroll -- or tax refunds coming into the marketplace. But as we look forward we expect the weather pattern to obviously normalize. The weather will not continue to be a factor in a country as big as the United States like it's been and from an economic standpoint, people are used to the payroll tax now. They have had four to five months to moderate their household budgets, to get used to it. The refunds, obviously, have been back in the marketplace and we are already starting to see better trends in QSR, better trends in Convenience Retail, better trends across our business. So we look forward to the second half of the year across the Americas, much more favorably than the first half. Muhtar used the word anomaly -- especially an anomaly in North America and we see ourselves coming out of that.

MUHTAR KENT: Ahmet?

AHMET BOZER, PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA INTERNATIONAL, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Steve. Thanks, Muhtar. Yes, just to build further on Muhtar's comments, I'll start with India, that's definitely completely weather-related. All our investments in the route to markets coolers and capabilities will continue to deliver the kind of levels that we are used to having from India in the rest of the year. So we are quite comfortable on that. On China, there were probably impacts of -- as you hear, the continuing slowdown in macro levels, as well as there was some weather impact, but we do expect volume to return for a number of reasons. First of all, China is a country with very, very low per capitas. I have been there a number of times in the last three, four months and we have been working on evolving our strategy with better OBPPC, more price points, and more packs, as well as improving our capability.

As Muhtar mentioned, we have recently strengthened our Management team there, and I'm very confident that in the second half of the year we are going to start returning to growth in China, maybe not at the levels of double-digits that you might have been seeing but we will certainly be looking to returning to growth in China. Now, the other anomaly in the International results was Europe. I could comfortably say that a very, very big part of that 4% decline was driven by unseasonable weather, as it has already been mentioned. It shows the strength of our system that we were able to gain volume and value share in both sparkling and NARTD and as we see weather normalizing we again look forward to coming back to our normal range of growth in Europe. The rest of International territory, such as EAG continued to deliver at historical growth rates.

GARY FAYARD: And Bill, this is Gary. Just add one or two other quick data points as well. When we talk about 1% volume, you have to wonder, is that a weak 1% or a strong 1%. Let me just assure you, it's as strong as it can be and still be 1%. So that's number one. The other thing is we talk about some of these anomalies on some of these markets. One of the things that gives me some confidence as well because there's been a lot of discussion about what's happening with the emerging markets and all around the world with the slowdown from China, et cetera, but we have always talked about the markets where the per capita consumption is less than 150 and has always been a real strength of ours. Well again even in the second quarter, if you looked at those markets under 150 and exclude China and India, which we have just discussed separately, if you excluded those, our volume in those markets was plus 7% in the second quarter, so it still shows underlying strength of the markets in those emerging markets.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thanks for the comprehensive answers.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Gary, I just wanted to ask a clarification about the back half of the year. Your commentary on the financials, it sounds like you're saying you're going to get to that level in the back half of the year and not the back half of the year will get you to the long-term algorithm for the full year. At least that's how I interpreted it. Can you just clarify that?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John. Thanks for the question. Here's how I would say it. We are actually very close in the first half of the year, year-to-date, if you look at operating income, I think year-to-date ex structural, currency neutral is plus 5% and our volume is plus 3% so we are not that far away. So our view would be that we should be and in fact year-to-date earnings per share ex currency is 8%, rounds up to 8%. So we are not that far away in the first half. That's why I was saying, solid results, and when I say it's solid -- you've followed us long enough, we like to be at the top end of ranges and not at the bottom end of ranges. Unfortunately, we are at the bottom end right now but that's the world we are dealing with but we feel very good about the second half.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay.

MUHTAR KENT: John, this is Muhtar. Just one point that I can add to that is the following. It's customary sometimes that when in the kind of businesses that we are in, when you have a blip in your volume because of a confluence of events, some of which are not in your control, the first thing you do is go out and cut marketing and if you look at our numbers, we have continued to invest aggressively in our brands through the second quarter, through -- in the first half and, as you know, every investment in marketing does not pay back in that quarter. It pays back in future quarters and therefore we are confident that with the share gains, we are confident with the strength of our brands, we are confident about the metrics on our brands both in sparkling and stills across the world and we are confident in our bottling partners' investment plans that are taking place in the second quarter that we can continue our momentum going into the second half of the year and also improve on it, volumetrically, but also continue with our mission to achieve our 2020 Vision through the next -- the years ahead.

JOHN FAUCHER: Got it. Okay. Thanks. Then my actual question here was, Gary, you got positive price mix in the vast -- in every region this quarter with the exception of Pacific. And yet it's not going up to full positive price mix here. How do we view the regional price mix versus the geographic offset and how does this fit into your long-term algorithm? Because it seems like this is something that's most likely going to continue to be a notable overhang?

GARY FAYARD: Okay, John, first I want to compliment you on your creativity with that first question and then here's the real question. But anyway. Great question, actually. And the first thing I would say around pricing is we believe strongly that we have premium brands and our brands should command a premium in the market. And they do command a premium across the world. Number one, we are seeing pricing across -- rational and within the industry we think pricing is rational, particularly in the United States. But if you look at price mix and I'm going to go year-to-date, but the second quarter is essentially the same thing. If you look at price mix, price mix year-to-date is even. But within that you've got positive pricing and you've got negative geographic mix.

So year-to-date consolidated, we actually have positive 1% pricing. If you look at it by region, year-to-date North America has positive pricing up 1%. Eurasia and Africa has positive pricing up 8%. Europe has -- looks like positive pricing up 2%, although I'll tell you a lot of that is because of Innocent and our acquisition of Innocent so absent Innocent, I think Europe is closer to flat. Latin America is positive 8 points of pricing year-to-date. The Pacific is even. And Bottling Investments Group is plus 2% as well. So we are actually getting very nice, positive pricing as well as category mix, brand mix, channel mix, all of those things are working.

What's happening to us and where the ding comes in, if you will, is that we've got negative geographic mix so we've got significant negative geographic mix across many of those regions, which brings us back to even when you put price and geography together overall at the consolidated level. As I've often said, geographic mix would -- is always going to be probably negative because you're going to expect those emerging market countries to be growing faster than the developed market countries and you've got better pricing in the developed market countries. What's amplified it a little bit this quarter particularly was the result in Europe that we talked about and North America being -- coming out even where they were. So, you put all that together, we are actually getting the kind of pricing we would expect to be getting in the market.

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just wanted to go back to the second half expectations and clearly you can't control the macros and the weather, but I would just like to hear a little bit more specifically on some of the actions that you're doing to improve the volume performance, particularly in markets like China where there's a macro issue but there's also competitive issue, there's also portfolio issue just in terms of not participating in some of the fast growth segments. So can you just talk about how you're thinking about marketing investments, how you're thinking about your portfolio? Can you accelerate price tag architecture strategy more aggressively to really get the volume performance even if the macros don't come back and/or the weather continues to be challenging?

AHMET BOZER: Should I take this?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Judy, let me just reflect on that and I'll ask Ahmet also to comment. But what we have said again is there was a coming together of many events that usually don't come together all the time. We have performed overall globally at rates that are much more commensurate to what you've been used to in the last three, four years despite the fact that we've had issues, some of these issues happening to us from quarter to quarter, but you haven't felt them because of the fact that the portfolio worked. And this time, you have the issues around in Latin America and the two key markets -- Brazil and Mexico -- on slowing down and on also consumer spending being impacted because of the Brazilian crunch in consumer credit that was taken away from the consumers and generally the consumer spending went away. And then you also had China, the issues in China that was consumer spending is actually much below GDP levels and that is documented across the macro numbers in China and as well as the weather issues related to India and also other issues coming together in North America where it went for the first time in 12 quarters from a plus to a negative, which we don't expect.

All of these things we don't expect to continue at the same time. Some of these things may still continue to impact us. Therefore, the portfolio will work. Now, related specifically to China, we are participating in two great categories in China and we are the leaders, which is sparkling and juices, those categories we have grown in and they are adding tremendous value to our portfolio and to our business in China. We have also, as we said, retargeting all our efforts in China, refocusing all our efforts. Yes, there's a different competitive landscape. We feel that actually that is not -- has not been the issue for us. The main issue for us is to ensure that we can continue to distribute in outlying areas in China that we have had some issues and we are correcting those and also that our marketing is working, which we feel definitely our brands are stronger, our innovation pipeline is working in terms of what we are providing to the consumer, also in terms of packaging.

And we feel confident that those two categories -- playing in those two categories -- and then also innovating across some other categories like dairy is going to create the growth and the value for us starting in the second quarter but also continuing and we also feel confident that the Chinese leadership -- the new Chinese leadership -- are going to ensure that they take the right actions and we are seeing that to reposition and transform the economy without creating a major bump as they transform the economy from a purely export-led economy to a more balanced economy with also consumer spending and both Deputy Vice Premier Yang in charge of the economy, as well as the new team, we feel confident and have the plans in place to ensure that that takes place. So again, Ahmet, you can reflect more on that, as well as any other markets you want to.

AHMET BOZER: Yes. Thanks, Muhtar. Thanks, Judy, for the question. A couple of messages here, Judy. Message number one is that the economy may be down but the growth prospects in China, even in the short term, is there simply because of the very low level of per capitas and strength of our system. Point number two, if you look at all the competitors in China, nobody really participated in all the categories. All the players have one or two categories that they are strong in and then they drive their businesses through those categories and maybe extend them to others. Our position is the same so our strategy is basically first of all, we definitely can do better in the categories that we already exist, such as sparkling. So to give you some specific actions we are taking to do that, I have highlighted the OBPPC and that's actually accelerated, we have pilots running on various multi-serve and single-serve packages for different price points in different parts of China. And as those things roll out of the pilot, we will be rolling some of them nationally, so those are already in a way in the market and they will be accelerated into the second quarter. We have also relooked at our communication strategies and we are going to be communicating more intensely on the intrinsics of our products as well as extrinsics.

You might have heard about our nickname promotion, that's the similar promotion to the Share a Coke promotion around the world elsewhere, which is getting incredibly positive reaction from the consumer, and all the other things of improving our route-to-markets, et cetera, those are all underway and we are very confident that that's going to give us our strength in sparkling. Now we also play in juices as you know, and we, as Muhtar mentioned, we are the number one player there. We are refocusing our efforts back around Pulpy and we are just looking at an extension of that into Mango, which is getting very strong consumer reaction. So as we consolidate our efforts behind that you would see a continued increase.

Now, obviously we are not only focused on just our existing categories. We have a pretty successful brand in Super Milky Pulpy, which is a value-added dairy, and we are beginning to increase our focus on that and we are getting high single-digit growth of that brand and we are building our innovation pipeline for the future. So it's a fairly robust strategy and, yes, under lower economic environments we might have lower growth rates than what you're used to, but we are ever strengthening our position in China to capitalize on this market for not just immediate future but the very long term.

MUHTAR KENT: And we have Irial also, which oversees Bottling Investments Group and, as you know, we are one of the three system players in China in terms of bottling. Maybe, Irial, you can comment on what you're seeing down on -- very close to the ground?

IRIAL FINAN, PRESIDENT, BOTTLING INVESTMENTS GROUP, THE COCA-COLA CO: Yes, Judy, good morning. Just to build on something Muhtar said earlier, which is around investment and I would say from a bottling perspective, we continue to invest heavily in the market and particularly in our execution capability, route-to-market capability, and critically in developing the talent to be successful in the next years ahead. So when you add those to the revitalized marketing strategies, OBPPC, I actually feel very confident about the future. Yes, we have bumps along the way but our Business is growing, our challenge is to grow a healthy long-term Business and I think, from a bottling perspective, we are really putting in place the infrastructure and the capability to really drive a success for the future and that's basically where I would leave it.

MUHTAR KENT: Judy, what I would just say finally is I wouldn't read anything more into this than what it is. As Gary said earlier, we were fractionally away from rounding up to 2% and we could -- it would not have been hard for us to do something which would not be right for this Business and take the volume up to 3% and selling low, cheap product. That is not what we are about. We are about investing. We are about doing the right thing for this Business and we are about -- and I've always said there may be a bump along the road, the one bump along -- we have grown this business consistently in line every year on an annual basis since 2008 on our way to our 2020 Vision in the range -- in the upper range of our long-term growth plan despite very, very challenging macroeconomic conditions and that is going to happen in 2013 also.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just two quick questions. What are the trends like recently? It seems like you're pretty bullish in the back half. So as you exited June and got into July, it looks like some of the weather normalized, so what are you seeing more recently? And then minutia but the big margin decline percentage year-over-year in Europe, what's the primary driver of that?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, let me just comment on what you just said. We are not -- this is not about managing on a day -- yes, we manage this business on an hourly basis but it's not healthy to comment on what has happened in the last two weeks. Yes, of course, we expect the weather to normalize. As you know, whoever is in the Northeast now and whoever was in the West Coast of the United States in the last 10 days, you know that weather has -- it does normalize. That's probability and statistics, so it just happened all in a very short period of time where everything was negative in many major markets, it's -- and it will turn -- it will normalize and that's what we are saying, part of what we are saying, so I have every confidence that with the normalized conditions, as I've said, we will again, 2013 will be another year when volume will grow at the range of the long-term growth model. As far as the margins are concerned, I will turn it over to Gary in terms of what -- the margin of what you mentioned in terms of the margin numbers in Europe.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, in Europe it's a structural anomaly. It's actually Innocent. So when the juice business, juice having lower margin, when it came in, that's what changed the margins. It's nothing more than that.

BILL SCHMITZ: Got you but so they should be down going forward though because of that because Innocent is now fully consolidated?

GARY FAYARD: Yes.

BILL SCHMITZ: Okay, great.

GARY FAYARD: And that's actually the flip side, if you will, of what I said when I was answering John's question, that if you looked at price, the price inside of price mix in Europe is actually plus 2%, but it's really Innocent giving us a lift on price but it gives the opposite effect on the margin.

BILL SCHMITZ: Got you. So from a dollar margin perspective it's almost neutral but the percentages change because of the price component?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, exactly right.

BILL SCHMITZ: Oh, great. Thanks very much for your time.

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Gary, just a question for you related to share repurchases. With the stock the way it's performed in the second quarter, did you accelerate or do anything different in terms of timing of maybe pulling forward share repurchases? And then the business right now is bouncing around the low end of your algorithm and the stock has bounced around in a pretty tight range here recently. So is there any consideration to maybe even buying back more stock than you originally planned just because you've got an opportunity to buy it here at the -- around the $40 level?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, great question, Bryan. Well, first, you will see that we did accelerate purchases in the first half of the year. As I said, if our annual target was in the $3 billion to $3.5 billion range and we actually have repurchased $2 billion in the first half, we did exactly what you said and we accelerated in the first half of the year. Where we are right now is we are sticking with the annual target, which we originally set at $3 billion to $3.5 billion and I'd just tell you, we will give you an update on that at the end of the third quarter.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. But not out of the realm of possibility that you could go higher if you chose to?

GARY FAYARD: I've learned to never say never to anything.

BRYAN SPILLANE: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Swartzberg, Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Muhtar or Gary, question on the gross margin evolution. I don't want to put words in your mouth but it seems like one of the silver linings here is that the price pack architecture work you've been doing over several years has allowed you to put up a pretty decent gross margin number and offset some of the corresponding earnings disappointment that comes from the revenues being what they were in the quarter. If that is a fair assessment, can you give us a bit of an update on what's going on in terms of innovation, not in terms of the price, the pack but in terms of what's really in the bottle because that seems to be one of the problems you're facing from a larger share performance absolute NARTD performance perspective?

GARY FAYARD: Perhaps, Mark, let me take the margin question and then we can come back to the innovation question. But this is actually -- let me get back into actually what I talked about, price mix and margins when I was talking about Innocent. The same thing applies actually at a higher level for the total Company. So what you've got is very positive pricing and you're seeing that and that being offset by geographic mix. But what you're seeing is when an operation like North America is minus 1% in the quarter, that actually -- this is counterintuitive -- but it actually improves margins, okay, because North America having the finished product business has lower margins. So in our expectation is, number one, to continue to get positive pricing and we are going to be rational in pricing and we intend to stay premium as I said earlier. But in addition to that, we expect North America's performance to improve in the second half of the year, which will actually put pressure on margins, which is why we said earlier that we would expect gross margins to moderate over the second half of the year and it's really the geographic mix of where the income is coming from. Does that make sense?

MARK SWARTZBERG: It does, yes. Absolutely. The geographic headwind is what it is.

GARY FAYARD: Yes.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, also on innovation, as we have said before, we don't look at innovation only as ingredients, we look at it as packaging, ingredients, equipment, even in terms of the marketing, social media, the brand price pack channel, architecture, occasion architecture, all of that is working for us and also our -- in terms of our new campaign to be part of the solution around the world, working closely with local governments, national governments, working with the government of Mexico, working with mayors in Chicago, in San Antonio, other parts of the United States, in different states, in Atlanta, and you can look at the patents that we have been filing of recent. So we are working and freestyle and the next generation of what is behind -- what's coming next after that, we are working on a host of new innovations.

Also ingredients. Continue to work with our partnerships across the world in different incubators around the world. The best -- we always believe here in The Coca-Cola Company, the best ideas are outside. So the plant bottle came from the outside from one of the incubators in India. Many new ideas are coming from different incubators in Israel or in China or in Japan or in Latin America. We have many -- we have substantial partnerships from here in -- with the University of Georgia to across many institutions around the world in techno parks. So, yes, we are very, very active and we are content that we have the right pipeline and maybe I can ask Steve to reflect on -- from just a North America and Americas perspective.

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes, thanks, Muhtar. From a -- starting with the Latin America perspective, we've got Coca-Cola Light, which we are kicking off in Argentina. Which we are excited about watching the prospects of that. We are doing terrific innovation around our Jugos Del Valle platform in juices in Latin America, as well as in North America we have launched Fruitwater, a brand new product off to a very good start. Powerade Zero Drops have joined Dasani Drops as a very exciting innovation. NOS Active, with is a fusion between sports drinks and energy, kicked off in April, again off to a very good start. From a packaging perspective, we continue to innovate around our price package architecture. We've just launched 16-ounce sparkling icy cans in our major packages. We've got Taylor Swift Slim cans coming into the marketplace. We've got 19.2 ounce sparkling cans coming into the marketplace. Again, lots of excitement around the packaging innovation.

In terms of some marketing innovations, we've got Coke Zero, which is going to be launching College GameDay this fall, which we are very excited about. We've got Caffeine-Free Coke Zero coming into the marketplace. We feel very good about that. Really building out the Coke Zero platform as an all-day brand, so we've got lots in the marketplace and lots more coming into the marketplace and it builds on one of Muhtar's earlier points that throughout this rough period of time, we have continued our marketing pressure, we have continued our marketing investment. We have not cut it. We have increased it and it allows us to continue to innovate and bring new innovations into the marketplace.

MARK SWARTZBERG: That's helpful. And if I could simply follow up on this subject of a stevia-based sweetener in the brand -- on the door, so to speak. Coca-Cola, we have seen what you've said recently about globally taking down the portion of your volume that is in the full-cal portion of your business. Should we infer here that there's an increased resolve to use organic sweeteners against the main brand here and there's some optimism globally for that potential?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I would just comment on that that it's all about ensuring that you provide the right choices at the right time for the right consumers in the right environment and that you shouldn't read that we have an increased resolve to use any specific ingredient. It's all about ensuring that we do have viable lights and no-calorie versions for every one of our major brands available to the consumer, ensure that we [front the pack] label transparently, ensure that we have active lifestyle programs, as per all our global commitments, and ensure that we have responsible marketing. That's our -- those are our four commitments and our Business, we've said many times, is about brands. Today, we have $16 billion brands, that are growing. We have in the pipeline another 19 brands that are bigger than $750 million in revenue and less than $1 billion. Those are all going to become $1 billion brands in the next increment of time because they are growing and we are confident that we will have multiple -- more $1 billion brands than we have today and I think that's what this Business is all about, adding value through brands to our system and I'm confident that you will see us add many more $1 billion brands to our [rostrum] in the near future.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thank you, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: So the general theme of my couple questions is really what we are all trying to figure out, which is, what's going to get better from here and why, and not only in terms of volume but also in terms of some of the other key drivers of profitability. So if I may, my first question is around North America and although you say in the press release, you remain committed to rational pricing, price mix was only up 1% and do you think volumes would have been down more than negative 4% if you had taken more than 1% pricing so taken 2% to 3% pricing or can we hope for that part of the business, the pricing in North America improving going forward? And as a follow-up to that, in a completely different per cap market like China, following up to Ahmet's point a second ago, I just want to get a better sense of if evolving a strategy has anything to do with increased price promotion as well, as it sometimes does with some companies?

MUHTAR KENT: Steve, you want to go?

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes, thanks, Ali. I will start. In terms of pricing, we have always said that our pricing strategy in North America is consumer-based and it continues to be consumer-based. We captured, if you look at Nielsen, we captured very good pricing across our portfolio in North America and we think it was an appropriate amount of pricing by channel. The unfortunate 4% volume decline was, as we said, had a lot more to do with weather and the economy, at least 60% to 70% having to do with a one-time, really poor weather event, so we didn't put more price in the marketplace to try and chase volume that wasn't there. We put appropriate price increases in the marketplace and we maintained our margins and we maintained our price strategy going forward and we continue to bring new products and new packages into the marketplace to help our whole architecture achieve the type of pricing that we deserve.

And we have given some examples of this in the past and a good one is our 1.25 liter, which continues to be very successful. One-third of the 1.25 liter volume is in fact incremental volume, so it is good in and of itself but it has also allowed it -- so if you look at our 2-liter pricing over the course of the past 12, 15 months, we are out of the $0.99 price promotion for 2-liter and have been for quite some time. So we are not going to put too much price in the marketplace. We take appropriate price, based on what the consumer and what's right for the consumer and what's right for the customer and we fully expect that based on the price plans we have in place for the back half of the year, based on the innovations we have on the back half of the year, that sparkling volume will in fact improve from what happened in the second quarter.

AHMET BOZER: Ali, I would move onto your question on China. The answer is there's absolutely no plans for increased price promotion. In fact, the reason for having a evolving OBBPC is to have more sustained volume at the right price point and the right packs for all the consumers. Now, to give you an example, you might be familiar that there's been a lot of upsizing going on in China and we have launched our 300 mL package last year. Now, we will tactically respond to such upsizing to be able to balance our volume and share performance but that's a -- those are limited tactical moves rather than a strategy to have increased price promotion so that's not really in the cards. Now, to maybe build on this a little bit and also to address some of the innovation questions that I didn't have a chance to share, is that we have small cans -- either slim can or sleek can -- and small PET launches all across the International territory, all across Europe, all across Eurasia Africa Group, and some of the Pacific markets.

That I believe is an important innovation in a way and also allows us to drive revenue and gross margin. In addition to that, let's also keep in mind that we had some very successful products such as Pulpy that hasn't been fully launched in all of our International territories. Eurasia Africa Group, for example, have taken that and they have launched it in Morocco. In a very short period of time, we were able to achieve a 20% plus market share with that launch. We've just had a recent launch of extensions of coffee into PET in Japan. In the CVS channel, the recruiting female consumers were quite happy and pleased with the results of that. We have been innovating in energy drinks in Russia and Turkey by extending them into PET packages, resealable PET packages that the consumers want so we continue to innovate in different packages, different categories across our International territory as well as using successful innovations from the previous years.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you, Jackson, Irial, Steve, Amit, and Gary. Our Business continues to grow and to capture global volume and value share even in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges and importantly we do not manage our Business for the short term but rather for the medium and long-term and, as I mentioned earlier, our focus on achieving our 2020 Vision is unwavering with current dynamics leading us to believe that our performance will be better in the back half of this year and beyond. As always, we thank you for your interest, your investment in our Company, and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And this concludes today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130723e97g00105
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,175 words
   PD
16 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2013 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP & IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we'll turn the call over for your questions. Ahmet Bozer, President of Coca-Cola International; Steve Cahillane, President of Coca-Cola Americas; and Irial Finan, President of our Bottling Investments Group will also be available for our Q&A session.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release, and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules under the Financial Reports & Information tab in the investor section of our Company website at www.coca-colacompany.com. These schedules reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures, which may be referred to by our senior executives during this morning's discussion, to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Before we review this quarter's operating results, I would like to take a moment to acknowledge the senseless events that took place in Boston yesterday. We were deeply saddened by this news, and our thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this horrible tragedy.

Now, turning to this quarter's results. We are pleased with our first quarter performance. The great women and men of The Coca-Cola Company, Coca-Cola system delivered solid performance results in line with our expectations. And on a global basis, we once again gained value share. We have now gained global value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages for 23 consecutive quarters.

In spite of the challenging global economic times of the last few years, our people and our system bottling partners are executing the right strategies to advance us further towards our 2020 Vision. Since the launch of our 2020 Vision at the beginning of 2010, we've increased daily servings by more than 225 million. We have lifted global volume and value share to the highest levels since 2003, and more than $48 billion have been added to The Coca-Cola Company's market capitalization. Across the system, we are continuing to invest together for a better tomorrow. In fact, we enter 2013 and the fourth year of our journey to 2020 from a position of real strength clearly focused, and well on track to reach our goals and objectives.

And our global bottling system is healthier than ever before. The strength of our brands and the promise of sustainable growth are fueling our bottlers' efforts to become more efficient, improve capability, and further strengthen execution. We are working closely with our bottling partners around the world to rapidly realize opportunities, to execute with precision, and to continue winning at the point of sale. We are innovating and investing in the health of our brands, in our capabilities, and in new opportunities for growth across the entire nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage landscape. We are leading the industry dialogue around obesity, and strengthening the sparkling category by bringing forward new packaging choices, transparency in labeling, and new sweetener solutions, while also championing energy balance and promoting physical activity.

We are working across the golden triangle of government, civil society, and business to create real value and to make a lasting positive difference. And more importantly, we continue to generate shareowner value. To that end, in the first quarter of 2013, we grew worldwide volume by 4%, cycling 5% from prior year, and once again captured global nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage value share with volume and value share gains in core sparkling categories. Our global sparkling portfolio grew 3%, led by brand Coca-Cola growth of 3%, while Fanta grew 6% and Sprite grew 5%. Sparkling brands contributed nearly two-thirds of our global volume growth. Worldwide still beverage volume grew 6% in the quarter, with growth across most still beverage categories, including ready-to-drink tea, juices and juice drinks, as well as packaged water.

These gains enabled us to capture global still beverage volume and value share. And immediate consumption volume also grew 3%, with growth across both sparkling and still beverages. As announced during our 2012 year-end earnings call, we implemented a new organizational structure effective January 1 of this year that includes Coca-Cola Americas, which began 2013 by growing volume 3%, and Coca-Cola International, which grew volume by 5%.

Moving now to operating groups. I will start with North America, where we remain resolutely focused on driving sustainable growth. We are pleased to report that North America continued to build on three successive years of growth, with 1% volume growth in the first quarter, resulting in volume and value share gains. We are winning by investing in our portfolio of preferred brands by executing with excellence at the point of sale, and by creating efficiencies and synergies across our manufacturing, sales, and distribution networks. Although sparkling volume was down by 1% in the quarter, we achieved 3% sparkling price mix, reflecting our focus on value creation. Importantly, brand Coca-Cola grew this quarter, aided by double-digit growth in both mini cans and in our 1.25-liter package, underscoring the strength of our flagship brand and the success of our occasion-based package architecture.

Coca-Cola also extended its favorite brand lead to over two times its closest competitor in North America. Sparkling beverages gained volume and value share, as marketing and execution are enabling us to win in the marketplace. Still beverage volume grew 6% in the quarter, cycling 6% from prior year. Our portfolio of still beverage brands has now captured volume and value share for 21 of the past 23 quarters. Our tea brands grew strong double digits and captured volume and value share of the ready-to-drink tea category. Growth was driven by Honest Tea at the premium end of the market, the ongoing rollout of Fuze, which is now available in 70% of total US supermarkets, and continued Gold Peak growth. As you may know, we have built Gold Peak from scratch since launching it in 2006. The brand has grown by double digits for 24 consecutive quarters, and is rapidly on its way to becoming a billion-dollar brand.

Our juice and juice drink portfolio grew 3% in the quarter, gaining volume and value share. Simply was up 9%, thanks to the addition of new flavors and the growth in Simply single serve. Our Minute Maid trademark grew 4%, due to the expansion of Minute Maid punches and ades, as well as gains in the light segment of the chilled juice drink category. North America water business grew 5%, led by growth of Dasani, which continues to maintain a price premium to its primary competitors. smartwater maintained its streak, delivering its 20th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. And our energy portfolio delivered its 11th consecutive quarter of volume growth and gained volume and value share.

As announced earlier today, we are taking a significant step towards our 2020 Vision by commencing the implementation of the 21st century beverage partnership model in the United States. The franchise system has always been the strength of the Coca-Cola business globally, and today we are accelerating the transformation of our US system in ways that will establish a clear path to help us achieve our 2020 Vision. In the coming months, we will be collaborating with five of our bottling partners to implement a plan which will include the granting of exclusive territory rights in the sale of distribution assets with cold drink equipment. In the near term, production assets will remain with Coca-Cola Refreshments, which will facilitate future implementation of a national product supply system.

These actions are being taken ahead of our previously stated timeline. The result will be further progress towards a more agile, modern, customer-focused franchise business model, unique to the United States. We remain confident that we have the right strategies for North America, and we are optimistic about the outlook for this important critical market, despite the challenging competitive environment and macroeconomic backdrop. As today's results indicate, The Coca-Cola Company's brand marketing, commercial execution, and category leadership efforts are all working together to enable us to sustainably win at the point of sale.

Turning now to Latin America. We are building the business from a position of real strength, having realized solid focus and volume growth in the quarter, cycling 5%. Sparkling beverages in Latin America grew 2%, with brand Coca-Cola also up 2%, enabling us to gain both volume and value share. Still beverages across Latin America delivered double-digit growth, gaining volume and value share, thanks to growth across the portfolio, including double-digit growth for both Del Valle juices and juice drinks, as well as Powerade.

In Mexico, brand Coca-Cola growth, combined with high single-digit growth of our still brands, helped drive overall volume growth of 3% in the quarter, enabling us to capture volume and value share of nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. In Brazil, where volume also grew 3%, brand Coca-Cola delivered 2% growth, while Fanta grew 8%, and Del Valle delivered 15% growth, enabling us to gain volume and value share in this important market.

The Latin Center business unit, which stretches from Ecuador to Belize and encompasses the Caribbean, grew volume by double digits, and trademark Coca-Cola expanded its leadership, growing high single digits through consumer-relevant propositions that includes increasing availability of our 1.25-liter returnable glass bottle, and expanding immediate consumption PET. We continue to see growth opportunities across Latin America, which is the Company's largest operating group in terms of unit case volume, and where we have gained value share in 21 of the last 23 quarters.

Moving now to the Pacific Group. We generated 3% overall volume growth, cycling 9% from prior year, led by high single-digit growth in brand Coca-Cola. At a country level, volume in China grew by 1%, cycling strong 9% growth. Sparkling beverages grew high single digits, while the juice and juice drinks business grew by double digits, following the introduction of Minute Maid Pulpy Pear and Minute Maid Pulpy Mango. This growth was partially offset by a decline in water volume as we cycled strong water growth. These results reflect sequential improvement and are in line with the expectations we shared during our year-end call.

Importantly, we believe that we will continue to realize sequential improvements through 2013. At the same time, we also believe that it is going to take a period of time for consumption to return to the growth levels of previous years. Nevertheless, we have every confidence in the long-term resilience of our China business, and we remain optimistic about our long-term opportunities to generate robust growth in this region over time.

In Japan, volume growth was 1%, in line with expectations, cycling 3% growth from prior year. Sparkling growth was up mid-single digits, led by trademark Coca-Cola, and in particular Coca-Cola Zero up double digits, driven by the successful Zero Limit national promotion. Ayataka green tea and I LOHAS water, our newest billion-dollar brands in Japan, continued their double-digit growth, and contributed to solid growth in the important convenience store channel.

Turning to India, which as a reminder we're now reporting within the Pacific Group, we delivered high single-digit volume growth, cycling strong double-digit growth from last year. And we have gained volume and value share in sparkling, while also increasing our pricing. Growth was led by brand Coca-Cola, which grew a strong 30% in the quarter, thanks to a strong, robust, integrated marketing and communications campaign, and strong in-market execution. In the first quarter alone, we added over 250,000 incremental outlets in India, and significantly increased chilled availability for our brands. Our still beverages in India grew mid-single digits, cycling strong double-digit growth, while gaining both volume and value share.

In concluding our update of the Pacific, I would also like to recognize our continued strong performance in two exciting markets, Thailand and South Korea. In Thailand, we are maintaining double-digit volume growth while rapidly investing in additional capacity. We are working in close alignment with our local bottling partners to further expand our leadership position in this important market. In South Korea, we are generating broad-based growth across a diverse portfolio of strong brands, with sparkling beverages growing high single digits in the quarter, led by brand Coca-Cola, up 11%.

Turning now to the Eurasia and Africa Group. We once again delivered double-digit volume growth, growing 15%, while maintaining share. Brand Coca-Cola grew double digits, bolstered by our award-winning Crazy for Good campaign. Fanta, Sprite, and Coke Zero all generated double-digit growth as well. Our still brands delivered double-digit growth, led by Fuze Tea, and the acquired volume related to the Aujan partnership.

Russia continued to deliver strong results, outpacing the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry with high single-digit volume growth. Growth was led by sparkling beverages, where we gained share for the eighth consecutive quarter, as brand Coca-Cola grew 15%. Our still beverage portfolio gained volume and value share, as Dobriy juice continued its double-digit expansion.

One highlight I would like to mention with regard to Russia is our effort to deepen the emotional connection with the consumers by leveraging the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi. Our sponsorship of these games and the torch relay will combine the passion of the Olympic spirit and Coca-Cola in the minds of millions of Russians, as the torch will pass through thousands of Russian towns. In fact, our activation of the torch relay is already driving real connections to our consumers, as evidenced by the more than 77,000 torchbearer nominations we have received during our latest consumer promotion.

The Turkey, Caucasus, and Central Asia business unit also continued its strong performance, delivering double-digit growth in the quarter. Prior to concluding my update on Eurasia and Africa, I would like to note that the Middle East and North Africa business unit was recently awarded the Company's Woodruff Cup. This is our most prestigious operating award, honoring the top performing business unit in our worldwide business systems.

Among other important accomplishments, the Middle East and North Africa business unit achieved double-digit volume and operating income growth for 2012. And we celebrated an important milestone with our partners at Aujan this quarter, as we toasted the billionth can of Rani juice produced since the start of our partnership. Rani is the leading juice brand in the Middle East, and a terrific compliment to our existing juice business in Eurasia and Africa, including Turkey, which gained volume and value share for a 10th consecutive quarter.

Turning now to Europe, the economic environment clearly remains uncertain across this region, as persistent high unemployment, coupled with severe austerity measures, are weighing on consumer sentiment and consumer spending. In fact, Nielsen's latest Global Survey of Consumer Confidence and Spending Intentions indicate that consumer confidence fell in 20 of the 29 European markets in the fourth quarter of last year.

Nevertheless, our volume was even in the quarter, cycling 1% growth from prior year, which is a significant sequential improvement from the fourth quarter of last year, and we grew volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages, both sparkling beverages across the region, including key markets like France, Germany, and Great Britain. There were pockets of volume growth across Europe, with Germany growing a healthy 3%, the Nordic countries showing improvement, and Great Britain returning to growth, while gaining share due to strong integrated marketing campaigns and solid execution in the marketplace.

For the near future, as European consumers remain cautious in their spending, we will keep investing for the long-term health of our business. These results from around the world underscore the laser focus of our system -- that our system has on our strategic priorities as we advance further towards our 2020 Vision.

Our five core strategic priorities are as follows. First, we must continue to grow sustainably and provide meaningful solutions that enhance the health and well-being of the communities we proudly serve. Second, we will win with Coca-Cola, while actively promoting the brand and the category. Third, we must absolutely keep winning and executing with excellence at the point of sale. Fourth, we need to keep maximizing the value of our global beverage portfolio. And fifth, we will encourage and inspire our system and associates to deliver our mission.

Looking back at the first quarter of 2013, we were also honored and humbled to receive several recognitions. We were again ranked number four on FORTUNE's list of Most Admired Companies, and named one of the Most Innovative Companies in the world by Fast Company. Also one of the most meaningful recognitions for the Coca-Cola system came from Catalyst, the leading nonprofit organization with a mission to expand opportunities for women in business. We were honored to accept the 2013 Catalyst Award in recognition of our Global Women's Initiative. This important initiative is focused on fueling the advancement of women as dynamic leaders and entrepreneurs across the organization, and also in communities throughout the world where we serve our customers and consumers.

Before moving on, I want to revisit a complex societal issue that touches us all, obesity. Beginning last year, The Coca-Cola Company took new steps to give consumers even more choices in package sizes, sweeteners, and beverages, including more low- and no-calorie selections, while also providing clear nutritional information, and by supporting fitness programs. Coca-Cola has a rich heritage of being associated with exercise, sports, and active lifestyles. Today, we are using our marketing expertise and community connections to inform consumers about energy balance and to inspire more people to get moving. We firmly believe the challenges of obesity are solvable. The Coca-Cola system, together with industry partners, NGOs, and governments, is committed to being part of the solution.

In closing, I would like to reiterate that our brands are stronger than ever before. We delivered solid performance results this quarter, in line with our expectations, while continuing to gain global value share. Together, with our global system bottling partners, we are working diligently to unlock value, to execute with precision, and to continue gaining volume and value share. We are leading the industry dialogue around obesity by bringing forward solutions, adding transparency to the dialogue around calories, and championing energy balance and physical activity.

We are generating value for our shareowners, as evidenced by the recently announced 10% increase in our annual dividend, which is our 51st consecutive annual dividend increase. Even so, we remain constructively discontent, as we seek to make the most of the vast growth opportunities we continue to see around the globe. Please know that we are working each and every day to refresh the world, inspire moments of happiness and optimism, create value, and make a meaningful difference in the lives of our consumers, our customers, and in the communities that we proudly serve.

With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. We delivered solid results this quarter, underscoring once again that our Company and global system are well-positioned to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision. Achieving such consistent performance during a time of ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty is a real testament to the strength of our global system and the investments we continue to make for long-term sustainable growth.

Before we get into the financial details of the quarter, let me remind you that we closed the sale of 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines to Coca-Cola FEMSA in January of this year, and therefore we no longer are consolidating the Philippines results. We anticipate that this transaction, along with the previously announced bottling merger in Brazil, will have a 3% structural impact on our full year 2013 net revenues; likewise our full year operating income results should see a 1% structural impact. However, there should be a corresponding improvement to equity income to account for our share of the results of these operations moving forward. As I was -- as I shared in our 2012 year-end call, we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results.

Moving now to our first quarter results, our comparable earnings per share were $0.46, up 5% versus the prior year quarter, despite currency headwinds of approximately 4%. Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up 5%, despite the impact of two fewer selling days, and the impact of certain structural items. Currency was a 3% headwind on comparable operating income. Comparable currency neutral net revenue grew 1%, and grew 2% after adjusting for the impact of structural items. After adjusting for the effect of two fewer selling days in the quarter, unit case sales were in line with concentrate sales.

Price mix for the quarter was even, cycling 3% in the prior year quarter, and remember in the second quarter we will also be cycling 3% price mix. However, stated in our last earnings call, we expect to earn low single-digit consolidated price mix for 2013, consistent with our long-term growth model. We continue executing our occasion-based brand price package and channel strategies with precision around the world. Our comparable gross margin was 61.5%. This represents a slight improvement compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of geographical mix, the deconsolidation of the Philippines bottler, and the impact of our foreign currency hedging program. We expect the improvement in our gross margin to moderate over the remainder of the year, due to a shift in geographic mix.

With regard to operating expense leverage, we achieved three points of favorable operating leverage in the quarter, despite the impact of two fewer selling days. Again, this was primarily due to the deconsolidation of the Philippines bottler, as well as the benefit from a reversal of expenses related to some of our long-term incentive plans. This was partially offset by sustained strategic investments in our brand building activities around the world.

As we have shared before, we continue to expect operating expense leverage to be even to slightly positive for the full year. As you model our 2013 operating results and our corresponding expense leverage, let me also remind everyone that the 2013 calendar will have one less day when compared to 2012. And based on our quarterly closing calendar, as I have said, we had two less days this quarter when compared to the first quarter of 2012, and our fourth quarter of 2013 will have one more day when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.

Moving now to net interest income, we came in at $14 million of income this quarter, ahead of our initial forecast. We now expect net interest will be even to slightly positive for the remainder of the year. Our underlying effective tax rate is 23.5%. We expect this rate to remain unchanged through 2014. Cash flow from operations decreased 3%, primarily due to the impact of the two fewer selling days in the period, an unfavorable impact from currency, and an increase in the use of working capital in preparation for the peak season of our growing global business. Looking ahead to the remainder of the year, we expect our cash flow growth rate to be more in line with our earnings growth rate.

Turning to share repurchase, our net share repurchase use during the quarter totaled approximately $1.1 billion. This places us well on track to achieve the $3 billion to $3.5 billion range for full-year 2013 that we communicated during our last earnings call. As for currencies, we remain fully hedged on the euro, yen, and sterling for 2013 and into 2014, and we also have near-term coverage in place across several other currencies. After considering these hedge positions and current spot rates, we expect currencies to be a 3% headwind for the second quarter, and a 2% headwind for the full year. As you've all seen the movement of the yen in recent months, as mentioned, we've hedged our yen exposure for this year and into next year, but we do believe that the weaker yen will ultimately be beneficial for the Japanese economy and for our business.

In closing, and as Muhtar shared earlier, we are delivering on our strategic priorities and achieving real success. We fully expect operating income to be in line with our long-term growth targets for the full year. Our global system is committed to investing together for a better tomorrow, and our proven ability to achieve consistent quality results provides us with the confidence that together as a system, we will successfully crack the code to sustainable growth to meet our 2020 Vision goals. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions)

In respect to the number of individuals with questions, only one question per participant. Your first question is from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Faucher, you may continue with your question.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Sorry. There's a lot of static. As you look at the bottle consolidation piece, is Spanish or Japanese bottler consolidation just sort of the beginning of the next wave of, let's say, a bottler-driven consolidation? And how much are you pushing this, as opposed to letting the bottlers lead where the system's going?

MUHTAR KENT: Hi, John. Good morning. This is Muhtar. First, I think it's important to realize that there's not one model for the world. There's many different models for the world, as you can see. What's happening, this has been an exciting last several months with respect to the evolution, actually continuous evolution, of our franchise system. We manage our business to create sustainable long-term value, and evolution of our franchise system continues to play an absolutely critical role in that process.

And so what you have seen recently, the [Contal] merger in Japan, the Brazil merger of three bottling partners creating a large Brazilian-led bottling business, the Iberian merger of seven bottling partners in Iberia, the sale of the Philippines -- of the majority shares of the Philippines and the control to FEMSA, and now the US process, the journey starting in the United States, are all part of our vision, our plan, and to ensure that we can continue to deliver on the commitments we've made for our vision.

They use, in some cases, they use partially our capital. In some cases, where there's a sale, obviously, we bring back capital back into The Coca-Cola Company, but all the time ensuring that our bottling business is fully suited for the needs of the 21st century, delivering what is necessary ahead of consumer expectations, customer expectations, and so not one size fits all. And in the case of the United States, again I'm pleased to report, we are pleased to report today, that we've reached agreement in principle to start this journey. All along, since the first day we've closed the transaction with Coca-Cola Refreshments, I've always said there will be a meaningful role to invite partners back into the business.

When I was -- when we were asked about the timing, we've always said around the four- to five-year timeframe from the time we've closed, the close of the Coca-Cola Refreshments was, as you will recall, back in the latter part of 2010, and we are well within that timeline. And it's a continuous evolution. And sometimes it will necessitate for us to use our own capital, sometimes a mix, and sometimes no capital. And again, not one size fits all. The US model is very different, but it is, again, a model that invites partners to serve with us passionately the communities that we operate in.

JOHN FAUCHER: Great, and if I could just ask a follow-up on that, which would be as you look at the different options you gave for the US pieces here, in terms of sub-bottler agreements, asset sales, swaps, things like that. Is there some way to think about the financial impact as you do this? I mean, this is a small piece of it. How long does this timeframe take out, as you sort of push these US pieces out? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. I think from -- we can't comment on the timing for the end game, but all I can tell you is that we are intent on creating the evolution necessary for us to be able to serve both our large customers and small, independent customers in the best possible way with our bottling partners. Again, we've always said that, right from the beginning, and we're consistent to that, that the US will be slightly different. We want to create the best-in-class production, optimum cost production system, coast-to-coast, from the East to the West. That will be nationally managed.

We also want to create a nationally managed large customer -- customer management system that will essentially have the responsibility to put together a 21st century customer plans with our large partners in the United States, and at the same time invite partners to come in and be part of this new evolution in the United States. It will take as long as it is necessary. And that is not our focus. It's going to be about doing the right thing as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible, and as effectively as possible, and that's what we are going to be doing.

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. A question for you, Gary, just on the operating leverage in the first quarter, and maybe more specifically, the gross margins. If I understood it right, this quarter would have been one of the highest in terms of the impact from commodity inflation? We also really had no positive benefit from price mix, and as we kind of look out going forward, right, we should get some benefit from price mix later in the year, and maybe some relief on commodity inflation. So why wouldn't there be maybe more leverage going through the year than we originally expected, given the leverage you had in the first quarter?

GARY FAYARD: Bryan, thanks. There are a couple of things to consider. First is, as I mentioned previously in the prepared remarks, that we reversed some compensation accruals in the first quarter. So that gave you more leverage in the quarter, but you will not see that. That's more of a one-time impact, if you will. So it's more leverage in the quarter.

The other significant piece is you're going -- the currencies had an impact as well, and currencies moderate going out. But the biggest thing will be geographic mix. And we would expect to see geographic mix changing throughout the year as we go through the year. And as that happens, it will have an impact on gross margin and operating leverage.

BRYAN SPILLANE: So the geographic mix would be more negative going through the back half, the rest of the year, is that --?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, that's exactly right. And think about North America, actually. I would expect North America, actually in the first quarter of this year, North America's operating income on a recurring kind of comparable basis, was down 3%, and it's down 3% primarily because of two fewer selling days. So if you adjusted for those selling days, it would have been positive. But I would expect North America to actually improve versus where they were, the minus 3%, but as they improved, because it's a finished product business, it's going to have negative gross margin impact, and it'll be reduced leverage.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. So more growth from lower margin geographies going forward, and that's what will affect sort of that margin impact?

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Yes, that's what I was trying to say more in code in the prepared remarks.

BRYAN SPILLANE: All right. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: We normally don't think North America, but that's what it was.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Thanks a lot.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bryan.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.

DARA MOHSENIAN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. I was hoping to get an update on the competitive environment around the world, both in China and Western Europe, which have been hot spots recently. And also just your thoughts around how you manage the pricing environment in the US sparkling business in 2013 and beyond, in light of the moderate commodity pressure, and if that solid 3% sparkling growth we saw in Q1 could continue in the balance of the year?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think, Dara, I think -- this is Muhtar, I think that we haven't seen anything markedly different from previous quarters as far as the competitive environment is concerned. China remains a very competitive environment. Actually the whole world, and again, this is a competitive environment that is a mix of large international companies, but also very much local companies, very much local companies in Asia, in parts of Africa, in the Middle East. We also see a somewhat more rational pricing, particularly in Europe, as well as parts of -- other parts of the world, in Latin America, too.

And I think -- so the way we see the environment is, it will continue to be challenged from a consumer perspective. Whether you're talking about Asia coming back, or whether you're talking about Europe, consumer sentiment in Europe, will continue to be volatile and mixed at best. And therefore, pricing is going to be critical, and therefore also ensuring leverage and ensuring productivity can be generated out of operations for us to be able to continue to invest, is going to be critical. But we are intent on continuing to invest in this environment. I'll let Steve Cahillane talk a little bit about how we manage the pricing environment in the United States (technical difficulties) price mix of 3% in terms of leverage in pricing for sparkling beverages in the past quarter.

STEVE CAHILLANE, PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA AMERICAS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes, thanks, Muhtar. We would -- we have seen a rational pricing environment in the United States over the course of a good period of time right now. We would expect that to continue, and I've said many times that if commodities go down, don't look for us to reinvest that in price. We've worked very hard to earn the price that we take in the marketplace. We don't have an affordability problem in the United States with our sparkling beverages, and we would look to continue to invest behind our brands.

We've got a terrific summer program for the Coca-Cola brand. We've got an exciting new partnership with Taylor Swift around Diet Coke. We'll invest around activating those types of program to continue to focus on our most important objective, which is to continue to support, develop, and drive the sparkling, our sparkling category, inside the United States business.

DARA MOHSENIAN: Okay. Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Morning, everybody. I wanted to follow up on the US bottling announcement. Coke held onto the production assets for the territories the five bottlers picked up. Do you see these bottlers eventually contributing their manufacturing assets into a national production company to get at the cost savings opportunity that you've talked about on the manufacturing side? And also, would Coke be willing to let new partners bring in outside capital to help finance some of the additional territory sales, given the size of the territory that Coke still holds onto in the US? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Hi, Bill. This is Muhtar. Good morning.

BILL PECORIELLO: Hi.

MUHTAR KENT: I would say to you that this is, again, we're at the beginning of this journey. We have reached agreement in principle with these five US bottling partners. It is very important that we did reach that agreement in principle, and now we can actually ensure that we put all the details into motion, and we can implement effectively. We have always said production is, in the United States, is critical to our success in achieving a optimum cost, 21st century production system, nationally managed coast-to-coast. That is going to take place.

We've also said that managing large, 30 or so, of our largest customers in the United States is going to be done nationally. That's also going to take place. In terms of who else would be coming in, we can't comment on that. In terms of what will happen, in what form an architecture production is going to take place in terms of what our current bottlers own, I can't comment on that. All I can tell you, and I can assure you, that we are intent on ensuring that we make the necessary changes in the format and architecture of production to achieve what I just said, which is a coast-to-coast, nationally run production system that generates the efficiencies, synergies, productivities that allow us to continue to win in the marketplace. And again, there may be a future where our partners in the United States take certain ownership in the national production. I wouldn't rule that out also, but it will be managed nationally from one point, single point.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. I just had a couple of questions on North America. First, in terms of volume performance, I think the macro data points and consumer data points have been a little bit choppy more recently. So maybe if you could give us a little bit color just in terms of category of your performance, immediate consumption versus take-home. And sort of the expectation as you get out into the back half of the year, lapping of some of the transitory headwinds, whether it's payroll taxes or weather-related, if you expect volume performance to improve.

And then, Gary, just on the profitability in North America, I know you talked about this a little bit, but I look at first quarter. You had 1% volume growth, 2% price mix, and you did say profitability was up a little bit, but just why aren't we seeing the profitability really improve more meaningfully and what drives the sequential acceleration in North America profitability going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Okay, Judy. I'll have Steve answer the first part of your question before Gary comes in and sheds some light on the question on profitability. Steve?

STEVE CAHILLANE: Yes. Thanks, Judy. First quarter clearly had a lot of noise in it. We expected a benefit from Easter being in the first quarter. It's never as big a benefit when it comes that early in the year. Easter's always better when it comes later in April because of the warmer weather. But obviously you reference the weather.

We saw some very dramatic changes. Last year we benefited from one of the hottest summers -- sorry, hottest winters, warmest winters in the United States, and we cycled that with one of the coldest winters in the United States. So clearly that had an effect. And we saw any benefit from Easter really being washed away, if you like, by the poor weather.

There was clearly an effect in the payroll tax. It's a little bit of art and science, trying to pick apart what's weather and what's payroll tax. We would figure about two-thirds is probably weather-related and one-third of the slowdown is based on the economy. We are, though, optimistic, guardedly optimistic, that the consumer is coming back, that the payroll tax and the economy is kind of a short-term, need to get used to the discretionary impact that that has had. So we remain optimistic that we've got the right programs in place, that the economy is on the mend, and we would expect continued good performance as we go out into the next three quarters.

In terms of, I guess, questions around profitability, I'll turn that over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Judy, I would say a couple of things on profitability. It's really kind of repeating what Steve just said. If you take the first quarter and you throw in lousy weather, payroll tax, actually the price of gasoline, what that then does to your immediate consumption versus future consumption business, it's going to have an impact on your profitability. Now, if I go back to the answer I gave to Bryan earlier, though, when I was talking about geographic mix and it's North America, I would expect North America to be improving, actually, from the first quarter and from where we were. And then North America also has this two fewer days.

Now, I can tell you, Steve's got a number from minus 3%. I said it would have been positive. Steve's got a number, but you can calculate it several different ways as to what would the impact of the two days be. We would all agree, I think, it is positive. They would have been positive at the operating income line. But you put all that together, the weather, by the way, as lousy as it's been, and the impact on Steve's business, has been given a lot of moisture to the Midwest for the drought for the corn crops. So you look for commodities, and we'll see what happens there.

Payroll tax, consumers hopefully are starting to get used to it. Gasoline prices, looks like they are starting to trend downward somewhat. So I think there are some reasons to be cautiously optimistic. CCR continues to execute with excellence, continuing to improve capability. So I think there are lots of reasons to be optimistic on North America.

JUDY HONG: Okay. But from a profitability perspective, though, the bigger delta is really the mix shifting towards more immediate consumption as weather normalizes, or is there step-up in cost savings or timing of marketing investments that help the profitability?

GARY FAYARD: Judy, I would actually say the biggest impact on the first quarter for North America was two less selling days, by far, as a whole company as well. But by far, the biggest impact was the two selling days.

JUDY HONG: Okay.

STEVE CAHILLANE: Judy, I didn't answer this part. A secondary impact is clearly weather-impacted food service and immediate consumption more than the take-home channel. So we would expect as weather moderates, those profitable parts of our business will start to normalize as well. But, as Gary said, two less selling days, when you've got the fixed cost assets that we have in the North American business is really quite significant. Those extra two days are golden cases that are going out. And when you lose those two days, it obviously has a big impact.

JUDY HONG: Got it. Okay. Thank you very much.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Judy.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Good morning, Muhtar, Gary, and team. I would like to just understand, Muhtar, your vision, again, going back to the United States. You talked a little bit about how manufacturing is going to evolve. A little bit of understanding the benefits of merging the operations of food service, your non-carbs, and your CSDs into one production facility. Just can that actually be done? And are there synergies there? And then secondly, do you feel strongly that your own people have to get the product to market from the plant, or could you use a third party, such as a Sysco?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Caroline, I think first in terms of our capability in our system in the United States is I would say the best in the consumer products world in terms of how we go to market and how we can get the product from production facilities. I would like to comment on how we can improve that. If there is a way for us to even improve and generate more productivity, we'll certainly look at it. I think the most important thing, though, is that there is room to generate significant further synergies in production. I think today I wouldn't say that the United States production system, after three years of having integrated Coca-Cola Refreshments, it is where we need it to be. And we need to achieve that -- continue on that road map to proceed towards a modern and best-in-class optimum cost production system coast-to-coast.

That will mean, obviously, a lot of changes. That will mean building new plants. That will mean combining some facilities, but I would like to also comment, in terms of hot-fill and aseptic versus sparkling beverage plants, we will look at ensuring that we have the most modern, most productive facilities in place. I don't believe the answer is to combine all under one roof. I think the answer is to combine many that are scattered across the country, both in terms of still and sparkling separately, into some consolidation process, and I can't comment any further.

What I can tell you is that there is room for costs to come down. There is room for efficiencies to increase, and we will achieve all of those. This is all in line with our 2020 Vision. We laid out a plan when we took over the business of Coca-Cola Enterprises. We laid out a plan when I took over as the CEO back 4.5 years ago, and we are executing it meticulously, and we are doing what we have said we will do, and we're doing it ahead of time.

CAROLINE LEVY: That's excellent. I was just wondering, in terms of getting shelf space, you see a big opportunity up and down the street, and to get better pricing, much as you've done in LatAm. I'm often asked how you compete with all the new things that come in, be it coconut water, energy drinks. I know you have some, but are you convinced you can keep or improve shelf space for your carbonated soft drinks?

MUHTAR KENT: Absolutely. I think we can improve service levels. I think we can improve execution inside the point of sale. I think we can improve availability. I think we can improve availability of cold drink. I think we can improve how we serve independents, and all of those things are going to be played out as we implement, execute this new strategy in the United States. And I don't know, Steve, do you want to comment?

STEVE CAHILLANE: I agree completely. Part of what we're doing with this new bottler arrangement focuses on that up and down the street, where bottlers and CCR add the most value, which is not only big customer sales, but up and down the street execution. And we've got also our venture and emerging brands unit, which you're familiar with, which brings brands like ZICO Coconut Water, it brought Honest Tea. So in those spaces that you're talking about, we are very much innovating. We've got glaceau fruitwater, which we just launched to great success a couple of weeks ago. That's being executed, not only in the large stores, but importantly in the up and down the street, food service on-premise accounts as well. We see that as a very important capability. We see ourselves as having a competitive advantage there when it comes to not just shelf space, but cold drink space and overall availability.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, and just to finally add on to that point, Caroline. Rest assured, we are in a mode of evolution, rapid evolution, not just in the United States, across the whole world. But, and you will see us adapting, reinventing how we go to market, how we serve customers, and also how we communicate with consumers, very importantly. Our brand's at an all time high in terms of health and we will continue, again, to evolve and bring out the best modes of communication with our consumers as well.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thanks. Good morning, everyone. Also a question on the US re-franchising, Muhtar or Gary. You talk about this new beverage agreement being ultimately what's at play here. Could you speak a little bit to how you're thinking about that, and the role of incidence-based pricing in that? Is it right to think that continues to have prominence in this new agreement, and any distinction you might draw between how stills and carbonateds are treated as you move production more squarely to staying, if you will, at least for a little while inside Coca-Cola?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think, Mark, it's -- I can't -- we can't comment on the details. What we can say is that it will be a model that will align us fully with our bottling partners to do what is right in the marketplace, and to focus on what is right in the marketplace, with full alignment model, and I think I can't just comment any further than that. But you will see us executing better, serving the customers better, with a better production template, as well as a customer service template.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Is it fair to think that other markets, there's a sort of a fact pattern, an experience set, to draw on as you implement this new form of agreement here in the US?

MUHTAR KENT: I think all of that will come into play, best practices, everywhere around the world. And I am certain that in four or five years time, many people will come into the United States to see the best practices, and as it used to be back in the 1980s when I used to bring bottlers, new bottlers, from Eastern Europe to see best practice in the United States at that time.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Fair enough. Thanks, Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT: In closing, I would like to thank Gary, Ahmet, Steve, Irial, and Jackson, and to again say that we're pleased with our solid first quarter. We are working as a system to unlock real value, further strengthen execution, and to win at the point of sale. We are confident that a focus, a relentless focus on growth, will enable us to build capable, resilient, optimized, advantaged, and sustainable systems that are well positioned to deliver results in 2013 and achieve our 2020 Vision. As always, we thank you for your interest and your investment in our Company, and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with The Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the Company's website, thecoca-colacompany.com. You may now all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130423e94g000ul
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,590 words
   PD
12 February 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's full year and fourth quarter 2012 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP AND IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning. And thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer; Ahmet Bozer, President Coca-Cola International; Steve Cahillane, President Coca-Cola Americas; and Irial Finan, President of our Bottling Investments Group. Following prepared remarks by Muhtar and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained on our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.cocacolacompany.com, under the reports and financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information.

Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone.

Let me start by saying that we're pleased with our reported results today. In a year marked by further uncertainty in the global economy, we once again delivered solid volumes, solid revenue, and solid profit growth. We grew our worldwide volume by 3% in the quarter and 4% for the full year. We generated comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth of 5% in the quarter and 6% for the full year, in the process, delivering record net revenues of over $48 billion in 2012. Consistent with the outlook we provided last quarter, we delivered full-year comparable currency-neutral operating income growth of 6%. This growth also translated into our company generating record comparable operating income of more than $11 billion for 2012. And importantly, we met our long-term volume revenue and profit targets for the full year, an accomplishment we are proud of meeting or exceeding every year since we announced our 2020 vision. In fact, since the first quarter of 2010, and the start of our 2020 vision, during one of the most difficult macroeconomic environments in recent history, we have firstly grown our daily servings by more than 200 million, serving more consumers daily on a global basis than at any other time in our history. Secondly, increased our global volume and value share of both our core sparkling and non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages to their highest levels since 2003. And thirdly, we added over $30 billion to our company's market capitalization.

We are well on our way to doubling our systems revenues by 2020 to $200 billion, reflecting the ongoing commitment of our entire global system to keep investing together for a better tomorrow. And we are crystal clear on why we do what we do, for it is our mission to refresh the world, inspire moments of optimism and happiness and to create sustainable value while making a lasting difference. This year, we once again led industry growth and extended our volume and value share gains globally in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category, where our portfolio was up 3% for the full year. This is the third straight year our sparkling beverages have grown by at least 550 million incremental cases. This has added more than 13 billion new servings annually to our global business for the past three years. This growth of our sparkling beverages has consistently and reliably been led by brand Coca-Cola, which grew a very healthy 3% for the full year of 2012.

We also gained global share in still beverages, with our portfolio growing a solid 10% for the full year. This year, this full-year growth was led by Powerade and Dasani, which were both up double digits, and our Glaceau trademark brands, which were up mid single digits. In fact, our still beverage portfolio growth was well balanced with mid single to double-digit growth across every single still beverage category in which we compete.

As we have shared for some time now, we recognize that consumers across the globe continue to feel the effects of a still uncertain global economy. 2012 saw the extension of prolonged uncertainty in Europe, the ongoing transition of the economy in China, the lukewarm recovery in the United States, and ongoing challenges for Japanese consumers. We expect this volatility to extend through 2013. Having said that, the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverage category on the whole continues to be vibrant and grow in line with the levels we forecasted when we first developed our 2020 vision.

Our experience also teaches us that it is critical to seize opportunities during these uncertain times, in order to lead and to succeed in any macro environment. To do so, we will, together with our bottling partners, keep investing in our business so that we not only grow bigger, but also we grow better. Better at collaborating, better at innovating, and better at listening to our consumers and customers, as well as bottling partners. And most importantly, better at executing with precision. So while 2013 will once again be a year of challenges, we are confident that we will continue to generate consistent quality growth in this, the fourth year of our 2020 vision.

So now, let's review our performance results across our global markets in more detail, beginning first with North America flagship market. Our business in North America delivered its 11th consecutive quarter of growth, up 1% for the quarter, and 2% for the full year. As a result, our North America business achieved its best-ever full-year volume sales results. In addition, we sustained 2% positive price mix in 2012, resulting in our North America beverage business generating 6% full year comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth. Importantly, we achieved this growth while also realizing full-year volume and value share gains in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. In fact, since we initiated our 2020 vision back at the end of 2009, our US business has seen consumer dollars spent across measured channels increase from approximately $56 to $60 per person in 2012. This represents over $1.5 billion of value created by our brand portfolio in these measured channels alone. I'm personally very pleased with our ability to deliver quality results, as well as to consistently create real value across our entire North America business.

This year's growth in North America was led by our still beverage portfolio, which was up 8% in both the quarter and also for the full year. This is the fifth consecutive year that our North America still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained both volume and value share. Our Powerade brand grew double digits in both the quarter and for the full year, making this Powerade's third consecutive year of double-digit growth. More importantly, Powerade led the broader North America sports drinks category in both absolute volume and value growth for full-year 2012. This is further evidence of how today's consumers are increasingly demonstrating a growing preference for this innovative sports drink brand. In our premium Smartwater brand achieved its fifth straight year of double-digit growth. Our juice and juice drinks portfolio also delivered a year of positive growth with our Simply trademark up 7% on a full-year basis. As such, our total juice and juice drinks portfolio gained volume and value share in both the quarter and full year.

Finally, our tea portfolio in North America sustained its momentum, up double digits while gaining volume and value share in both the quarter and full year. This result was led by Gold Peak, which was up 36% in 2012, cycling 48% and making this Gold Peak's sixth consecutive year of double-digit growth. Our sparkling beverage business in North America delivered absolute value growth in 2012, with full-year volume down 1%, offset by a positive 2% price mix. Importantly, our strategy to provide meaningful and purposeful choice to consumers continued to yield benefits.

Our core sparkling beverage immediate consumption transactions were up 1% for the full year, enabling us to capture sparkling beverage volume and value share in North America in both the quarter and for the full year. Coke Zero sustained its momentum, up high single digits for the full year. And we also saw accelerated growth in Fanta, which was up mid single digits for the full year. As we look ahead, we remain positive that North America is a long-term growth market for our sparkling beverage business. We will keep investing in the category and in our winning sparkling portfolio and continue to promote active, healthy well-being in all the communities that we proudly serve.

Moving now to Latin America, our volume grew 5% in the quarter and for the full year. The incremental volume we generated in Latin America this year was equivalent to adding a business the size of Canada to this region's volume base. Our total business in Latin America set a new record with volume sales exceeding 8 billion unit cases, or the equivalent of 192 billion servings on a full-year basis for the first time in our company's history. Our sparkling beverages in Latin America grew a healthy 3% in 2012 with brand Coca-Cola also up 3%, both for the quarter and for the full year. Also, our still beverages in Latin America delivered double-digit growth in both the quarter and for the full year. These well-balanced results translated into Latin America capturing volume and value share in non-alcoholic beverages for the eighth consecutive year.

We also saw balanced results across all four of our Latin America business units, each generating mid to high single-digit growth for the full year. Our two largest markets in Latin America, Mexico and Brazil, were both up a solid 5% this quarter, while also growing volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. On a full-year basis, Mexico was up 4%, supported by consistent brand Coca-Cola growth, up 3% in the quarter and the full year. Brazil grew 6% for the full year, with sparkling beverages up mid single digits in both the quarter and the full year. And last December, also three of our bottling partners in Brazil, including two operated by our Bottling Investments Group, signed an agreement to combine their operations. When completed, this transaction is going to create the second largest Coca-Cola bottling operation in Brazil. The proposed combination will form a company with a greater ability to invest in the market and accelerate growth, reflecting our franchise systems continuous evolution and our systems commitment to long term, sustainable growth in Brazil.

Now let me turn to our Pacific group, which grew 2% in the quarter and 5% for the full year. In Japan, our full-year volume grew 2%, in line with the outlook we provided in our previous earnings calls. This resulted in our business in Japan delivering a third consecutive year of record high sales volume. Our business in Japan also gained full-year share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. This result was driven by volume growth across most channels, including drug stores, convenience retail outlets, and supermarkets. I'm also proud to announce that Ayataka, our premium green tea brand, as well as I LOHAS, our innovative water brand, achieved billion dollar brand status in late 2012. These are the fourth and fifth billion dollar brands we have added to our portfolio since announcing our 2020 vision.

Also, with regard to Japan, last December, the four Japanese bottlers from the greater Kanto region announced their agreement to merge into one integrated and publicly listed company called Coca-Cola East Japan. While this agreement is still pending final approval by each of the four bottler shareholders, once complete, Coca-Cola East Japan will become our fifth largest global bottling partner in terms of annual revenue. We support this bottler-led consolidation in Japan and see it as one example of the many ways our franchise system continues to evolve in full alignment with our 2020 vision.

Moving now to China, our last earnings -- during our last earnings call, we shared our clear expectation with China's ongoing economic transition would have a short-term impact on our industry and on our business. Since then, we have seen disposable consumer spending remain quite challenged in China, especially in the export-driven coastal areas where a higher proportion of our beverages are consumed. As a result, our China volume was down 4% in the fourth quarter, also impacted by unseasonably poor weather, the cycling of double-digit growth from last year, and the timing of the Chinese New Year. On a full-year basis, our volume in China grew mid single digits, cycling double-digit growth from last year. Our strong sparkling beverage portfolio in China continued to expand our nearly two to one share advantage over our primary international competitor. This portfolio is very well positioned in China, with leading brands in every major sparkling flavor category, including Sprite, the number one sparkling brand in China, Coca-Cola recently rated by Chinese consumers as their most favorite brand, and Fanta, which registered double-digit growth in 2012, exceeding 100 million annual unit cases for the first time. And we are committed to investing and innovating across our broader still beverage portfolio in China to strengthen our presence across all categories.

As we look ahead to 2013, we still expect ongoing uncertainty in China to have a short-term impact on our industry and on our business, although we do expect to see improvements in consumer disposable income as the year progresses. As such, from here on, we expect our business to deliver sequential improvement in 2013. As we have stated before, we have every confidence in the long-term resilience of our China business, and we remain very excited about our long-term opportunities in this region. Across the rest of the Pacific group, we realized several new milestone performances in fast-growing markets. South Korea was up double digits in 2012, with our business there achieving over 200 million annual unit cases for the first time. Thailand also delivered double-digit growth, up 22% for the full year, resulting in record value share and full-year unit case volume results.

The Philippines also achieved strong results, growing 5% for the full year, while also capturing volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. As many of you know, we recently sold 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines to Coca-Cola Femsa. While every bottling transaction is unique, this transaction is yet another example of our long-standing and fundamental belief in the strength of our global franchise system. We look forward to this new partnership with Coca-Cola Femsa as we jointly invest and further strengthen our business in the Philippines to create sustainable long-term growth and value. Our Eurasia and Africa business also extended its strong momentum, growing a very solid 10% in the quarter and up 11% for the full year, including full-year double-digit growth for brand Coca-Cola. During both the quarter and the full year, our business in Eurasia and Africa grew both volume and value share in total non-alcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.

On a country level, Russia was one of the key drivers of this group's performance, up 8% in 2012, led once again by the outstanding growth of brand Coca-Cola, which grew 20% for the full year. And the momentum behind our Dobriy juice brand accelerated further with 13% growth for the full year. Viewed in total, we have out paced the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink industry in Russia for three consecutive quarters. As a result, our business in Russia now has achieved an all-time high market share. Our business in India, which grew 16% on a full-year basis, continues its long stretch of strong growth, realizing both volume and value share gains across both sparkling and still beverages. Importantly, India has now delivered six consecutive years of double-digit volume growth starting back in 2007.

Moving now to Europe, our business was down 5% in the quarter and was down 1% for the full year, reflecting the region's ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty. While we recognize the real challenges of today's European environment, it is important to place our results in the proper context and to recognize the resiliency of our industry and our business in Europe. Since the start of 2009, when austerity measures, unemployment, and fiscal concerns began to weigh heavily on European consumer confidence, Europe has seen its GDP decline. In contrast, during the same four-year period, our business in Europe has out paced the broader industry, making our company one of a select few able to deliver positive growth between 2009 and 2012. We successfully grew our business in Germany, up 1% in 2012, despite cycling 6% growth in 2011, while gaining full-year share in non-alcoholic beverages. This makes it three consecutive years that Germany has delivered full-year volume growth. As such, we remain confident that our business in Germany is in a sound position and capable of delivering long-term sustainable growth.

Looking ahead, we expect, we expect Europe's economic uncertainty to extend well into 2013. At the same time, we expect that the European economy and consumer sentiment will gradually improve and that our business is well positioned to return to volume growth as that occurs. We're also confident that our leadership team and our system will keep investing to outperform the industry in 2013 as Europe continues along the road to recovery.

Before concluding my prepared remarks, I would like to highlight our company's sustained efforts and resolve to work to find meaningful solutions to the complex issue of obesity. There's an important conversation going on about obesity and we want to be part of the solution. Together with partners in government, civil society, our own industry, and other businesses, I am personally committed to leveraging all our resources to lead and make a difference here. We're committed to use evidence-based science to guide the choices we offer. We are committed to investing innovation of our sweeteners, products, packaging and equipment that fosters active, healthy living. We are committed to bringing real choice to consumers everywhere and educating them on how the choices we offer can play a role in sensible, balanced diets and active healthy lifestyles. We are committed to transparency about the nutritional content of our products and we are committed to responsible marketing of our products.

In closing, we are pleased that our business has done so well in recent years and that we remain well on track to achieve our 2020 vision. Together, we as a system have delivered on our priorities and we are achieving real success. With passion and commitment and our collective focus, we are propelling ourselves forward during these challenging economic and social times. As we look back to January 2010 when we began our 2020 vision, we have reasons to be proud of our collective achievements and yet remain constructively discontent. We completed the largest transaction in our history leading to the formation of Coca-Cola Refreshments in North America. We added five new billion-dollar brands to our portfolio. We maintained Coca-Cola as the world's most valuable brand, a distinction it has earned from Interbrand every year since 2000. And we launched multiple programs to support the global communities we serve, such as our 5 by 20 initiative to empower 5 million women by 2020 and to provide entrepreneurial training to help grow local businesses.

All that said, we are keenly aware of how today's turbulent economic landscape is likely to extend through this year. As such, our 2013 strategic priorities remain absolutely clear. First, we must continue to grow sustainably and provide meaningful solutions that enhance the health and well-being of the communities we proudly serve. Second, we will win with Coca-Cola, while actively promoting the brand and the category. Third, we must absolutely keep winning and executing with excellence at the point of sale. Fourth, we need to keep maximizing the value of our global beverage portfolio. And fifth, we will encourage and inspire our system and associates to deliver our mission and our vision.

For there is still a great runway ahead of us, both for our sparkling beverages, as well as across the entire range of our broader portfolio. After all, global consumer expenditures are expected to grow strongly between 2013 and 2020, driven by further economic growth in developing emerging countries, as well as expected middle class expansion in populous economies. So while we are proud of our strong record of delivering results through the first three years of our 2020 vision, we know that we are really just getting started. All of us at The Coca-Cola Company and the Coca-Cola system remain diligent about what we need to do in order to achieve our results and to effectively and efficiently manage our business for sustainable, long-term success for all our stake holders.

With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. And good morning, everyone. We are pleased to have once again delivered quality performance results in 2012, making this the seventh straight year that our volume and operating income results have been in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets. Achieving such consistent performance during a time of ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty is a real testament to our global systems ability to execute our strategic priorities and alignment with our 2020 vision. Therefore, we remain confident that we will continue to deliver full-year volume, revenue, and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.

So let's review our results in more detail, starting with our comparable earnings per share, which came in at $0.45 this quarter, up 15% versus the prior year. Our full-year comparable earnings per share came in at $2.01, up 5%, despite facing what we estimate was about a 4% currency head wind for the year. Our comparable currency-neutral net revenues grew 5% in the quarter. The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 1% head wind. Our full-year comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth was up 6%, in line with our long-term growth target. On a comparable basis, the impact of currency on our full-year net revenue results was a 3% head wind. Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up double digits this quarter, consistent with the outlook that we shared in our earnings call last quarter. And as Muhtar shared a few moments ago, on a full-year basis, our comparable currency-neutral operating income came in at 6% as expected and in line with our long-term growth target.

During our last few earnings calls, we shared more specific full-year 2012 outlook across several financial items to help those of you who model our business. I'm pleased to say that our results were right in line with or slightly ahead of the outlook that we provided. So I want to take a moment to recap these results and where applicable, provide more and further insight into our full-year 2013 outlook. With regard to volume growth, our full-year 2012 concentrate sales growth was in line with our full-year unit case volume growth, as per our comments last quarter. Our consolidated price mix was up 1% for the full year 2012, consistent with our prior year full-year outlook. And for 2013, we expect to keep earning low single-digit consolidated price mix, as called for in our long-term growth model, as we continue executing our occasion-based brand/price package and channel strategies with precision around the world.

Our comparable currency-neutral SG&A expenses were up 5% on a full-year basis. This increase in SG&A reflects our ongoing commitment to keep investing for a better tomorrow, as we grew our direct marketing expenses in 2012 while simultaneously capturing incremental marketing efficiencies. We also added additional feet on the street, primarily in North America, to ensure support of our growing business in this important market. And our SG&A results for the quarter and full year also included a benefit from the reversal of certain expenses related to our long-term incentive plans, as well as a one point unfavorable impact of structural items, primarily in our bottling investments group and in North America. Our full-year comparable gross margin was roughly in line with the estimate we provided during our previous earnings calls. Our operating expense leverage was a positive nine points this quarter, as we benefited from having two additional selling days. And our full-year operating expense leverage came in at a positive one point.

For 2013, we expect our positive operating expense leverage to be even to slightly positive, as we sustain our strategic investments in brand building activities around the world, and efficiently manage our operating expenses. As you model our 2013 operating results and our corresponding operating expense leverage, let me also remind everyone that our 2013 calendar will have one less day when compared to 2012. Specifically, our first quarter of 2013 will have two less days when compared to the first quarter of 2012, and the first -- and the fourth quarter of 2013 will have one more day when compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.

Moving now to net interest, this came in at a positive $31 million in the fourth quarter. This was ahead of our initial expectations and raised our full-year net interest income to $74 million. For 2013, our best estimate is that net interest will come in as an expense ranging between $30 million and $50 million for the full year 2013. We'll update this outlook each quarter as we move through the year. For 2012, underlying effective tax rate held steady at 24% and we expect the tax rate for 2013 to be approximately the same. And our cash flow from operations increased 12% on the full year 2012, partially benefiting from favorable timing relating to certain working capital items. Looking ahead to 2013, we expect our cash flow growth rate to be more in line with our earnings growth rate.

Now, let me take a moment to update on the impact of several additional items that may help you model our business in 2013, starting with commodities. Incremental costs related to our big four commodities, which are sweeteners, metals, juices, and PET, came in at around $225 million for the full year 2012, in line with what we had provided previously. Looking ahead to 2013, and after considering our hedge positions, we anticipate a more moderate year of commodity inflation with incremental costs related to our big four commodities coming in at closer to $100 million.

As for currencies, we saw head winds of 4% on our fourth quarter comparable operating income and 5% for the full year 2012 comparable operating income, consistent with our previously provided outlook. In preparing for 2013, we are fully hedged on the Euro, Yen, and Sterling, and also have some near-term coverage in place across several other currencies. After considering these hedge positions, current spot rates and last week's devaluation announcement in Venezuela, we now expect currencies to be a 4% head wind of operating income for the first quarter of 2013 and at even to minus 1% head wind for the full year. It was even before Venezuela, so maybe slightly negative with Venezuela. We'll also report $100 million to $125 million devaluation loss in the first quarter related to monetary assets held in Venezuela. As for our normal practice, we'll update our currency forecast on a quarterly basis as we go through 2013.

Our full-year share repurchases net of employee option exercises totaled $3.1 billion in 2012, just slightly above the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range we communicated at the outset of the year. In 2013, we expect our net share repurchases to range between $3 billion and $3.5 billion. Now, let me take a moment to highlight a few other items that will also inform you about our business in 2013. First, as previously announced, starting this year we will have organized our company around three major operating businesses; Coca-Cola International, consisting of Europe, the Pacific, and Eurasia and Africa operations; Coca-Cola Americas, consisting of our North America and Latin American operations; and our Bottling Investments Group, which will continue to oversee our company-owned bottling operations outside of North America. As this organizational change does not impact our reporting segment, we'll continue to disclose our performance results for all five geographic operating groups, as well as for our Bottling Investment Group.

That said, starting with the first quarter of 2013, we will reflect our India and Southwest Asia business results within our Pacific operating group instead of within our Eurasia and Africa operating group. Prior to our next earnings call, we will provide information reclassifying the last three years of our results for these two geographic operating groups to facilitate your historical comparison of our results to our future results. Second, as previously mentioned by Muhtar, there have been several transactions announced these past few months, including bottler mergers in Japan and Brazil, and the sale of 51% of our bottling business in the Philippines. To be clear, we do not expect these transactions to have a material impact on our 2013 earnings results. However, these actions will generate a structural head wind on our year-over-year net revenue and operating income growth rates. As such, we anticipate these transactions to have a 3% structural impact on our full-year 2013 net revenue. Likewise, our full-year operating income results should see a 1% structural impact with this decline offset by a corresponding improvement in equity income. And as I mentioned, we do not see these transactions having a material impact on 2013 earnings per share.

As a final update and as part of our previously announced global productivity and reinvestment program, we are reorganizing our Coca-Cola refreshments business in the United States to align itself and operating functions around three geographies. We take this action as part of our consistent effort to improve our processes and systems, and to ensure greater operating effectiveness and productivity across our North American operations. This new alignment is in keeping with the ongoing evolution of our North American business model, as we invest even further to enhance our capabilities and deliver against our 2020 vision.

In closing, and as Muhtar said earlier, we are delivering on our strategic priorities and achieving real success. As we move into 2013, our global bottler system is healthier than ever and our financial priorities remain clear. We will invest in our core business with plans to spend around $3 billion in capital expenditures in 2013. We will strategically invest with our global bottling system to increase our share position across key growth categories. We will pay a healthy dividend, and as previously announced, we will repurchase shares between $3 billion and $3.5 billion in 2013. Our system is committed to investing together for a better tomorrow and our proven ability to achieve a consistent quality results provides us with the confidence that we will continue to successfully execute our growth strategies with precision, in line with our 2020 vision.

Before concluding our prepared remarks, I want to remind you that Ahmet, Steve and I look forward to seeing you when we present at the upcoming CAGNY Conference in Boca Raton on Friday, February 22. And Irial and I also look forward to being with you when we present together at the CAGE conference in London on Tuesday, March 19.

Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Good morning. Muhtar, I know you have been doing a lot of globe-hopping lately, so could you talk about the global macro, maybe some granularity about regional growth rates? I know you were at [sohishina dobos], just to give us some color on how you think things are going to trend over the next year. I know you kind of covered it big picture, but maybe some more granularity.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Bill, I think -- I've recently been to Korea, to Australia, in the last 10 days to also southern Russia and Sochi, but I think essentially in Europe, there is a sentiment there that people are beginning to feel that it's not going to get any worse, that there will be some expansion happening as we move forward instead of just purely fiscal restraint and monetary restraint. So there is that feeling beginning to emerge, but I think it's going to be a long recovery.

Certainly in China, we are seeing the transition happen from a purely export-led economy to one that is more balanced with consumer spending and a combination of consumer spending, as well as export-led a balanced economy. I think there were some challenges in that transition initially where there was a divergence between GDP growth and pure disposable incomes for a while. But I think long-term, that's going to be very beneficial for everyone, this transition in China. I think in general, Japan is going to also -- I think the consumer sentiment will continue to be modeled and volatile there and subdued.

The rest of the world, whether it's Africa, the youngest billion, Latin America, Eurasia, Middle East, we see -- and of course Asia, Southeast Asia and other parts of Asia, Indian subcontinent, we see growth. We see very disciplined monetary policy, balanced budgets, good banking system, and the consumer is more positive. And so it's modeled and it's mixed.

And here in the United States, we see some signs of improvement. We need to wait and evaluate the impact of the payroll taxes, as well as the higher gasoline prices. It's too early to say, but it's a recovery that is at best lukewarm, but we feel that it could get better. That's how we see the world. And based on that, we continue to invest for opportunity. We continue to invest based on our long-term models and plans with our bottling partners, to continue to generate both volume, top line, and income growth.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great. Thanks very much. And can I follow up with the change in the structure of CCR North America? Does this change your sort of philosophy on sort of how long you're going to own the asset and maybe how it's going to be operated going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Are you just -- sorry. Are you talking about just the restructuring?

BILL SCHMITZ: Yes, exactly. Like for the three different regions. There were seven different businesses before and now there's three. Does that sort of change your view on how long that asset stays with TCC?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, it's got nothing to do with that at all. Think of it as last year we announced a new productivity and reinvestment program that includes continued synergies from our North America CCR, Coca-Cola Refreshment operations, to be able to enable us to continue to invest in our brands to grow in North America. 11 quarters of consecutive quarters of growth. When we first talked about growth in North America back in '09, people thought that we were trying to go to the moon with a glider. And now, it's reality.

11 quarters of consecutive growth. And we intend to continue that. We see this as a growth market. And therefore, to enable us to continue to invest in our brands, this is just ordinary course of business. Think about it exactly like that. It's not a big deal, ordinary course of business, and therefore, it's got nothing to do with the United States bottling structure. It's just part of ongoing business and I'll have -- Steve Cahillane is here with me on this call, as well as Ahmet Bozer and Irial Fanin, so I can ask Steve to also comment.

STEVE CAHILLANE, PRESIDENT COCA-COLA AMERICAS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Muhtar, you said it very well. This is very much an effectiveness play. Two years ago when we put these businesses together, we had a simple mantra. First, we were going to make it work. Then we were going to make it better. Then we were going to make it best.

We've learned a lot over the course of the last 2.5 years. One of our most successful organizations is our food service organization, which is aligned around three geographic units. We're moving our national retail sales and our field sales organizations also around the same three units, which will really build our total efficiency and effectiveness, our ability to work together, our ability to continue to invest in this market, invest against our brands, put more feet on the street. So we're very excited about the new organization and think it will get us from making it better to making it best.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everybody. I just wanted to clarify one thing first, Gary. When you are hitting the long-term FX neutral operating target, you expect to do that in 2013, as well as in the long run? Then with close to zero operating expense leverage guidance of '13, despite the savings, you're signaling stepped-up spending. Wanted to get an idea of where you're focusing that incremental spending on. Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bill. Yes, and I was trying to be pretty clear, but let me be very clear. We expect to hit our long-term growth targets both in 2013 and in long-term. But that applies to 2013 as well. So we're comfortable with that and would expect to be able to deliver that.

The second thing is we have always had a mantra that you invest through a crisis. We've been in a global crisis for a number of years now. But we've got history and we've seen what happens when you invest through the crisis, when you come out the other end. As Muhtar says, we think -- see things slowly improving across the world, but we expect to come out at the other end much stronger than we were even going in. So we're going to continue to drive efficiencies, productivity, and then reinvest that back to grow the business and growing the brands. The brands are stronger than they have ever been, but we think we can drive it even further so. We're going to continue to invest behind the brands.

MUHTAR KENT: And just one point to add on that, Bill. I always say, as you go up, the air gets thinner. Always remember, we're adding on top of significant increases from prior year all the time. Just on sparkling beverages alone, we've added 500, over 0.5 billion cases each year. So we are cycling that every year and we're continuing to grow. I think that is really important.

And in three years, the worst, I guess, probably macroeconomic environment, we've seen for a long time. We're able to generate volume growth in line with our growth expectations, revenue growth in line with our growth expectations and income growth. Generating record revenues of $48 billion, record income, as well as record cash growth. It needs to be taken into that context, continue to crack the calculus for growth.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. So Muhtar, I know you spoke a lot about the macro environment, but maybe you could speak a little bit about the competitive environment, particularly around US sparkling, China, and parts of Western Europe where you have seen some step-up in competitive pressure and how that's affected your volume performance and how you see that sort of trending in 2013.

MUHTAR KENT: I think in the United States, we are -- as you have heard, we've gained -- continued to gain both volume and value share. And in all over the world, our share is at an all-time high, everywhere across the world, in NARTD, as well as in the different categories that we're operating in and competing in. We choose to compete in. And therefore, and similarly in China in sparkling, we've widened our gap to our nearest international competitor in sparkling. In Europe, I think there have been a month or two where we've had some challenges. But overall for the whole year, we've, again, gained share across the whole of broader Europe, in Western Europe, as well as Eastern Europe, and in Southeast Europe, across the whole continent in both volume and value share.

And to be -- I think to be frank, we see competition is healthy, and it keeps us on our toes, it keeps us executing better and being better, becoming more efficient and more productive, and that's all we strive every single day as a business system, together with our 275 bottlers around the world, is that we strive to get better. Better at making decisions quicker, so that we can be more nimble and more innovative and, as you know, we've launched more than 800 different products over the last four or five years. Many of them are new, innovative products that are gaining great traction, as they are in the United States.

Look at the still -- performance of our still business. Look at the relative performance of our sparkling business. I mentioned that between 2009 and 2012, spend per person on our brands went up from $56 to $60. So transactions are up in the United States. Our brand price pack channel location architecture is working in the United States. So both in China, transactions are ahead of our volume, as well as in the United States immediate consumption business.

So judge us not only by pure volume. Judge us by the quality of our volume and transaction growth. We sell -- in the end, consumers buy packages and products, combination of packages and products, each one at a time. They don't buy liters. That is really important, I think, to understand and how we think about our business.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and then Gary, following up on currency guidance for the full year. It seems like the first quarter guidance is actually a little bit worse than I thought. Can you help us understand, is it based on your hedge position and with the Yen moving pretty sharply, how much are you hedged on the Yen?

GARY FAYARD: Judy, we're actually fully hedged on the Yen, Euro and Sterling, and in fact, the Yen positions that we have are actually in the money. They are in good play. That's not an issue. When you look at the first quarter, it was actually -- I said 4%, it was 3% pre-Venezuela. It is 4% now. The Venezuela devaluation obviously is a big one, when you devalue 50%. So that's number one.

But number two, the real impact is not what you would expect, is not the Yen. The impact are the rates that we're cycling in the emerging markets, particularly Latin America. If you look at Brazil, look at Mexico, those -- look at the rates at early last year, and then they started devaluing South Africa as well. If you look at those, you'll see there's an improving trend. So towards the latter part of 2013, based on where spot is today, we actually turned positive with kind of even to minus one for the full year. But it is front end loaded negative and then improving throughout the year.

JUDY HONG: And in Venezuela, Gary, just the impact you're purely looking at transitional impact or some sort of margin impact as you have the pricing control in place?

GARY FAYARD: We've got a loss on monetary assets. That was the 100 to 125. And so if you look in the Wall Street Journal article this morning, we just joined a list of other companies that have the same issue. So that's kind of a one-time item that I'm just telling you has occurred and will occur. And then the translation impact of the revenues will be about a 1% drag in the first quarter.

JUDY HONG: Got it. Okay. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMC.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Just two questions here. Gary, just sort of more of a housekeeping type of thing. As you look at the commentary on the net interest line, seems as though that's going to create a situation where there's probably not much leverage, if any, below the operating lines. If you could just sort of confirm that.

And then secondly, as we look at the organic top line growth in terms of just simply the bottler case sales volume plus price mix, it decelerated looks like to me at least every quarter this year. So can you talk about how you see that trending up as we go through the course of 2012? You've got difficult comparisons in the first half of the year and sort of how that's going to play into your comfort level of hitting that 6% to 8% currency neutral operating profit target. Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: John, let me see if I can get the first half of your question. First, below operating income growth, you're right, because we will see net interest flip from interest income to interest expense. There are a couple of things going on in there. Primarily, it's rates. And just rates are down, particularly in some of the emerging markets where we've got some cash which was generating a lot of the interest income. You saw that happening during the latter part of this year.

And the reason that interest income was actually a lot better than in the fourth quarter than I told you to expect it to be was actually we put on some interest rate swap hedges a couple years ago. There's a small ineffectiveness piece to that hedge and the ineffective piece has to go through the P&L. That was actually pretty large this quarter positive, and it gave us a lot of interest income. So that's part of what you're seeing. So -- but then equity income, you're going to get some leverage. It's going to be up because of the structural items that I talked about from some of the transactions that have occurred.

Then if we go to, all right, the second half of your question was -- tell me again.

JOHN FAUCHER: Just looking at the deceleration in the organic top line growth and how that maps out over the course of the year and the comfort on let's say the 6% there.

GARY FAYARD: Well, I think there are a couple of different things. There, I think we're going to see improving and slowly improving trends in many of the markets around the world. Europe, I think will improve. My expectation is that Europe will improve in 2013 from well -- pretty good improvement form the fourth quarter of 2012, so I would say you're actually going to see sequential improvement in Europe. You're going to see sequential improvement in China for sure. I think the US is poised now also in a pretty good place.

So I think number one, I think volumes in 2012 dipped a little bit in the fourth quarter. Our view is that is not the start of a trend, that we think that's just -- it happened, but it's not the start of a trend. And we would expect volume actually to be okay in 2013 and we think it will sequentially start coming back and be better, be okay in 2013.

MUHTAR KENT: John, just, just to add on that, I think very little is always said about the 120 or so countries which have a per capita of around 125 in our business, where volume growth for 2012 was, again, 7%. These countries represent about a little more than one third of our total global volume, countries that we never talk about, whether it's Sub-Sahara, or whether it's in Asia or Middle East or central Asia and so forth. But -- and we grew in these countries 9% in 2010, 7% in 2011, 7% in 2012, and we keep on growing. This is the beauty of our portfolio impact.

So while you may have a quarter where China doesn't grow or where Europe doesn't grow, we still continue to be able to deliver on our long-term growth model for volume and also for revenues, and I think that is -- imagine what would have happened to our volume if Europe did grow this past quarter and China. So this is the benefit of having this portfolio, which is getting stronger and bigger, as we continue to invest with our bottling partners in alignment.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, and then finally, one housekeeping question. Gary, you mentioned the equity income line. That's coming out of the operating profit line. So is it -- as you look at hitting your target, I'm assuming that's before the bottler deconsolidation, right? So that's 6 to 8, sort of minus 1 for the bottler, minus 1 for the FX is how we should look at it?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, that's exactly right. When I said hit the target, we hit the target before structural, but then you would have to adjust for structural. But with pretax or net income being the same, it's just what is the geography within the P&L.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, great. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, guys. Can you give us a little bit more of a sense of the go-forward evolution of the bottling system globally and in the US? And you look at Germany that shrank this quarter and you want to do some system changes there. Japan certainly has seen some system changes and that's had some struggles. China is struggling a little bit and there were competitive system changes there. US sparkling volumes are still a little bit tough and you bought TCC about two years ago.

And whether, to Gary's point, these volume trends are a trend or not, it just seems to us that given all of that, you might actually see the next few years with very large changes to the Coca-Cola system and the industry overall. So if you were to kind of close your eyes and see with us, how would you see the structure of the system, of the future looking versus what it is today?

MUHTAR KENT: Ali, I've always said the fact we are total believers in the franchise system. It is a beautiful system when you can get it to work as we have aligned towards the vision, aligned with its goals and aligned in its ownership objectives and goals. That's what we have. And therefore, we will continue to drive this bottling system towards an aligned vision, which we have. And as I said, we've got three years that we've accomplished that and seven years to go and we're confident that we can continue to accomplish it.

As we move through the system, you've already heard us talk about what we see, envisage for the US system, where we have a role again for bottling partners. We are on -- we still have the same time table for that. I won't repeat what the time table was. We said about four to five years since the time we closed the transaction. And you can figure we're still -- we still believe that is doable. And as we move along different parts of the world, you see us creating stronger systems, like Brazil, stronger systems like Kanto. That is a huge milestone in the 55-year history of our Japanese business, getting the four Kanto bottlers to unite and to take costs out of the system to be able to continue to invest to drive top line growth for our system.

And you will see us doing more of those as we move forward. And again, refranchising Philippines is another example. So don't think of this as seismic changes in our bottling system. We will continue to fine tune and evolve as needed, as necessary to drive the goals that we have outlined.

ALI DIBADJ: So it's helpful, and I'm still struggling with what's -- what can we look forward to changes in terms of not being as reactionary, but maybe thinking going forward. Maybe if you can help me, you mentioned the US and Steve mentioned it a little while ago, so it's been about two years since you closed the CC North America transaction.

Can you give us a sense of where you think you are ahead of plan and where you are behind plan? Certainly for many investors, this quarter was probably pleasing, because operating margins start in reflect positively, but is this sustainable without any more meaningful restructuring, bigger things? And how do you think about the volume trends we've been seeing so far in sparkling and whether that changes anything about how you think -- not reactionary -- but going forward about the structure here, as just another example of what you're describing, Muhtar?

MUHTAR KENT: First, let me just say that everything we're doing, none of it is reactionary. It's proactive, whether it's Brazil, whether it's Philippines, whether it's Japan, and we've got more to talk about that we're not in a position to talk about right now. All of that is actually proactive. And the US is all about proactive.

And I can tell you very clearly, once again, that as I mentioned in Judy's question, judge us not only by the leaders, judge us also by the transactions, judge us by how we are doing in terms of the value of the business that we are creating and the consumer spend that's coming into our business, into our brand and the health of our brands. This is ultimately a brand business. Our brands are healthier than they have ever been, both in sparkling, as well as in still beverages. So I think that we see -- I repeat, we see opportunities in the United States for it to keep growing and also for us to keep generating value in both sparkling and in still beverages. And that's how we see it and whatever it takes for us to be able -- investment, proactive long-term investment is the key. Whatever it takes for us to be able to continue our targeted, thoughtful, purposeful investments, you will see us continuing to do that so that our brands remain healthy, our system remains nimble, and flexible, as far as throughout the market, as far as production and as far as distribution and sales.

ALI DIBADJ: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. I've got a question on the, just the productivity program, just really looking for an update. First, I think if you took the two elements of it, both what was initially announced last year plus the extension of the CCR integration, your expectation was $550 million to $650 million of annualized savings by the end of 2015. So is that still the same size or has there been any change to what you're expecting in terms of total savings?

GARY FAYARD: Brian, this is Gary. No, no changes at all. We -- you're exactly right. What we announced the beginning of last year in productivity and reinvestment was $550 million to $650 million for total company, including North America. We are still on track. In fact, well on track on that program. It was a 2012 through 2015 program and we are continuing to execute against that.

We're on track. We are taking the savings and from the supply chain optimization, the marketing effectiveness, operational excellence, data and IT systems standardization were the areas of that whole program, in addition to what we're doing in CCR, and we're taking that and reinvesting behind innovation, as well as marketing of our brands and that's still working well. What we talked about in North America today is just a normal part and evolution of that program and we'll continue to do that around the world to drive effectiveness, because it really helps us in several different ways. It's not only about saving money. It's about operating more effectively so we can operate faster. Being more productive means we can make decisions quicker, and those are the things we are driving for. We want to be fast, flexible and very big.

BRYAN SPILLANE: How much did it drive -- how much savings did you drive in 2012?

GARY FAYARD: Outside of North America, we probably had about $40 million to $50 million in savings in 2012, and then North America continues to drive synergies and did fairly well against their part of their targets as well.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Fair to say you think '13 will be a bigger aggregate pull to savings to spend back than you had in '12?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, it will be. It will be.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay, and then just one last one. How much in terms of charges are you expecting to take over the life of the plan relative to the savings?

GARY FAYARD: Let me, Brian, answer it this way, because as we continue -- I'll continue to update you on where we are and how big the plan is. So let's call it $550 million to $650 million today, but as you know, a few years ago, we had another program as well that we kind of concluded and then started this one. So we continue to look for efficiencies and effectiveness. But everything we look at when we evaluate it, we would expect that the one-time costs ought to be in a ratio no more than 1 to 1.5 to 1 payback. So you're talking about a 12 to 18-month payback on something that's then continuous benefit to the P&L going forward.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, Gary.

GARY FAYARD: Okay, great. Thanks, Brian.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you, Gary, Ahmet, Steve, Irial and Jackson. In closing, we had a strong 2012 and have once again delivered quality full-year performance results. Our business continues to grow, even in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges. Our system is aligned. And it's on track to achieve our 2020 vision.

Together, we are consistently investing in our brands on a global scale through world class marketing and commercial strategy. And as we get closer to the midpoint of our 2020 vision, our system remains resolutely focused on refreshing our consumers, creating value for our customers, maintaining strong partnerships with our bottling partners, strategically investing for the future, and expanding shareholder value. As always, we thank you for your interest and your investment in our company and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with the Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the Company's website, thecoca-colacompany.com. You may all now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130226e92c00231
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,544 words
   PD
16 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2012 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objection, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP AND IR OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA CO: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecocacolacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by saying that we are pleased with our third-quarter and year-to-date performance. We continue to deliver consistent quality results, with our business growing worldwide volume by 4% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date. Importantly, we realized positive growth across all five of our geographic operating groups this quarter, despite facing a still uncertain global economy. Together with our global system, we are operating from a position of real strength.

This past quarter, we've built on this advantage by once again leading industry growth and extending our volume and value share gains globally in nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages. We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category, where our portfolio is up 3% in both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis. To put this in perspective, our global sparkling business has generated nearly 450 million incremental cases year-to-date, or the equivalent of adding another Russia to our global business. And, this growth has been consistently and reliably led by brand Coca-Cola, which has grown every quarter over the past 3.5 years and is up a healthy 3% year-to-date.

We also gained global share in the still beverage category, where our portfolio grew a solid 10% in the quarter and 9% year-to-date. This quarter's still beverage results were well balanced, with high single-digit growth in juice and juice drinks and sports drinks, as well as double-digit growth in the water, energy, and ready-to-drink tea categories. We are committed to striking a sound balance between the growth of our sparkling and still beverages. We see this balance as the key to growing our total business, while sustainably enhancing our margins and profits in line with our 2020 vision.

We're also committed to providing consumers more choice in brands, beverage types, and calories -- or no calories, all of which contributes new growth to our business. The balanced result that we have achieved across our portfolio demonstrate that we are delivering on this commitment. As we shared during our prior earnings call this year, we recognize that consumers across the globe are still feeling the effects of the prolonged uncertainty in Europe, the ongoing cooling of the economy in China, and a mild recovery in the United States. We believe these global macroeconomic pressures will extend through 2012 and likely into 2013. Despite this, we are heartened by our ability to consistently deliver quality results, as well as by our global system's commitment to invest in the business for the long-term growth.

We're also encouraged by how we have successfully and systematically adapted our business model these past few years to readily address the changing demands of the global marketplace. First, we better positioned our Company to capture North America's long-term growth opportunity by acquiring CCE's North America business. Our North American business has delivered volume growth every quarter since we executed this important transaction. Second, we broadened the relevance of our Bottling Investments Group, evolving it further from its initial role of fixing challenging markets to a more significant role of spearheading our growth in select strategic markets, such as India and China. Constant renewal is in our DNA. Now, with solid fundamentals and real momentum in our business, we are ready to take the next step towards our 2020 vision.

As announced last quarter, effective January 1, 2013, we're organizing our Company around three major operating businesses. Coca-Cola International, consisting of our Europe, Pacific and Eurasia and Africa operations, Coca-Cola Americas, consisting of our North America and Latin America operations, and Bottling Investments Group, which will continue to oversee our Company-owned bottling operations outside of North America. By consolidating leadership of our global operations under two large and similar-size geographic regions, as well as in our Bottling Investments Group, we will streamline reporting lines and intensify our focus on key markets. This newly evolved structure will also enable us to better leverage synergies and more flexibly adjust our business strategies within those geographies in the future. All of this will further strengthen our efforts to achieve long-term sustainable growth, as we advance our momentum towards our 2020 vision.

Now, let's review our performance across our global markets in more detail, beginning with our flagship market, North America. This past quarter, our business in North America delivered its tenth consecutive quarter of growth, up 2% for the quarter and year-to-date. We also captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages, while sustaining a positive 3% price mix for our total North America beverage business. Our growth in North America was once again driven by our still beverage portfolio which was up 7% this quarter. This is the tenth consecutive quarter that our North America still beverage portfolio has either maintained or gained both volume and value share.

In sports drinks, POWERADE grew volume 9% this quarter, while also leading the North America sports drink category in absolute unit case volume growth for the fourth consecutive quarter. Our juice and juice drinks portfolio in North America outpaced the category, up 6% for the quarter, while gaining both volume and value share. Our positive result in this category was broad-based, driven by strong growth in our juice drinks business, volume and value share growth across our Minute Maid Lights portfolio, and further value share gains in the 100% chilled orange juice segment.

Our Glaceau brands were up mid-single-digits in North America once again this quarter, gaining both volume and value share and led by the 18th straight quarter of double-digit growth for our premium smartwater brand. The rest of our North America water business grew 4% in the quarter, led by Dasani, which maintained its premium price position and saw further gains across key brand equity measures, driven by consumer awareness of our innovative plant bottle packaging. And, our tea portfolio in North America sustained its momentum, up double-digits, while gaining both volume and value share. This result was led by Gold Peak, which has now grown strong double-digits for 22 consecutive quarters.

Our sparkling beverages in North America were even in the third quarter, a sequential improvement over our second-quarter results, and ahead of the broader sparkling beverage industry. Importantly, our sparkling beverage portfolio earned a positive 3% price mix in both the quarter and year-to-date, in what continues to be a rational pricing environment. Coca-Cola Zero growth accelerated, up 9% this quarter. We also sustained our momentum behind Fanta, which was up mid-single-digits for the third consecutive quarter. We are encouraged by our consistent progress in North America, and we remain positive about the long-term outlook for this very important market.

We're also leading the effort across communities in the United States to tackle obesity. Last week, we joined fellow members of the beverage industry to announce a first-of-its-kind partnership with the cities of Chicago and San Antonio, encouraging the citizens of these cities to be more health aware and physically active. We introduced a city-to-city wellness challenge, as well as our new Calories Count vending program that will provide consumers with the choices and information they need to choose beverages that are right for themselves and for their families. When it comes to noncommunicable diseases such as obesity, we know that there are no simple answers. But, we also know that a lack of physical activity is a primary contributor to obesity. We also know that there is a lack of understanding of how many calories people consume in a day. As such, our Company is committed to partnering with customers and cities to promote active, healthy, balanced lifestyles, as well as making calorie information more transparent.

Now, let me turn to our Pacific group, which grew 3% in the third quarter, and 6% year-to-date. Our business in Japan was up 2% this quarter, bringing our year-to-date volume growth in Japan to 3%. Japan has now delivered volume growth in eight of the last nine quarters. Our business in Japan continues to gain share in nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages this quarter and also grew both volume and value share in still beverages. This positive result was driven by the sustained momentum of our Georgia coffee brand and water and sports drink category offerings, which led to consistent volume growth across channels, including drug stores, convenience retail outlets, as well as supermarkets.

Looking ahead, and consistent with what we said during our last earnings call, we expect our fourth-quarter volume results in Japan to moderate somewhat below our year-to-date trend, as we cycle strong growth from prior year. Having said that, our business in Japan is on track to deliver full-year, low single-digit growth.

Moving now to China, our business delivered 2% volume growth this quarter, cycling last year's double-digit growth. On a year-to-date basis, our volume in China has grown 6%, cycling strong 15% growth from last year. And once again this quarter, we captured both volume and value share in sparkling beverages. Importantly, and in alignment with our strategic priorities in China, we are growing transactions ahead of volume with total transactions up 10% year-to-date. One package that is helping us deliver against that strategy is our 300 ml -- milliliter package. On a year-to-date basis, this new package has generated over 0.5 billion incremental transactions in China. We will keep driving our 300 ml package to provide consumers with a great offering at the right price point, while also building our brands in the sparkling category in a healthy way over the long-term.

As we look ahead to the next six months, it is reasonable to expect that China's ongoing economic slowdown may have a short-term effect on our industry and on our business. In our view, the Chinese economy is undergoing a natural and necessary economic transition, as the government places greater emphasis on controlling long-term inflation over injecting short-term economic stimulus. While the Chinese economy undergoes this period of transition, we have every confidence in the long-term resilience of our business for three key reasons.

First, our brands in China are strong. In our latest survey of consumers, age 12 to 49 years old, Coca-Cola was rated as both the most favorite sparkling and nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink brand. In this same survey, Minute Maid was rated as the most favorite juice drinks brand. Second, we hold the leadership position in the sparkling category. This is the ninth consecutive quarter in which our sparkling beverages in China either maintained or gained both volume and value share. And third, our system in China is strategically focused, well aligned, and committed to invest for sustainable long-term growth. As such, we remain encouraged and excited about our opportunities in this region and continue to believe that China will serve as a long-term growth driver for our business.

I also want to share our perspective on a few other markets in the Pacific that are exhibiting strong growth, starting with Thailand, which again delivered double-digit growth, up a sound 19% this quarter. Thailand's growth was led by brand Coca-Cola, which was up 26% in the quarter, and 34% year-to-date. I also want to highlight our results in South Korea, another market which has grown double-digits in both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis. As additional context, our business in South Korea has nearly doubled since 2007. This is a testament to our system's ability to implement a robust set of occasion-based price and packaging offerings to consumers and drive growth across this region. We are excited about the growth opportunities in both Thailand and South Korea, and we will keep investing for the future in these vibrant markets.

Moving now to Latin America, our volume grew 5% for both the quarter, as well as year-to-date. As in previous quarters, this growth was led by brand Coca-Cola, up 3% in both the quarter and year-to-date. In Latin America, we once again captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages. Our two largest markets in Latin America, Mexico and Brazil, were both up a solid 6% this past quarter, while also growing volume and value share in sparkling, still, and also the entire nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink category. Importantly, our growth in both these markets was well balanced across all categories. Mexico grew sparkling beverages 3%, and still beverages were up double-digits for the quarter. Similarly, Brazil delivered 4% sparkling beverage growth and double-digit still beverage growth for the quarter. Brazil is up 5% on a year-to-date basis. In light of these strong results, we now expect our 2012 growth in Brazil to be in the mid-single-digits.

Let me also share our perspective on a few other markets in Latin America that we see as great opportunities for long-term growth, specifically Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Together, these markets are one-third the size of our current Brazilian business. Our system is very focused on implementing the same winning strategies in these markets that have driven such positive results in Brazil this past decade. We will keep investing in Colombia, investing in Ecuador and Peru, and across the entire Latin America region as we execute our 2020 vision. As such, it is easy to see why we are excited about the long-term growth opportunity represented by these three dynamic Latin American markets.

Our Eurasia and Africa business extended its strong momentum, growing a solid 11% in both the quarter and year-to-date, including 11% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola. During the quarter, our business in Eurasia and Africa grew both volume and value share in total nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink beverages. On a country level, India once again led this group's performance, delivering balanced and consistent quality growth. Our business in India was up 15% for the quarter, with double-digit growth and volume and value share gains realized across both sparkling and still beverages. Sparkling beverage growth in India was led by brand Coca-Cola, up over 30% for the second consecutive quarter, as we sustained our focus on immediate consumption offerings. And, still beverages in India were led by our juice drink brands, with Maaza up over 20% again in the quarter.

Russia was up 7% in both the quarter and year-to-date, with this strong result driven by the further acceleration of brand Coca-Cola, which grew 18% in the quarter, and 20% year-to-date. Like last quarter, we observed similarly strong results across our broader sparkling portfolio in Russia, with Fanta up 15%, and Sprite up 7%. And, our Dobry juice brand, built on its recent success, delivering 16% growth in the quarter and raising this brand's year-to-date performance up to 12%.

Our strong performance across the Eurasia and Africa group was supported by our partnership with Ojon. We are excited about the further opportunities represented by our partnership with Ojon, which holds the number one position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East. And, our collaborations in Eurasia and Africa extend beyond business relationships, as exemplified by our partnership with the Global Fund to bring critical medicines to rural Africa.

At last month's Clinton Global Initiative, we announced our plans to expand the reach of Project Last Mile, which was established in 2010 to help Tanzania's government-run, medicine distribution network build a more efficient supply chain, by leveraging our expansive distribution system and core business expertise. Nearly 20 million Africans have benefited from this partnership since 2010. The newest phase of this partnership will increase the availability of medicines to 75% of Tanzania and expand the project's reach to Ghana and Mozambique. The success of this project demonstrates our belief in the power of civil society, government, and the private sector, or what we call the golden triangle, working closely together to solve real global issues and problems.

Moving now to Europe, we saw our business return to growth, up a solid 1% for the quarter. These results were achieved despite the continuation of unseasonably poor weather in the first half of the quarter, as well as the impact of ongoing, macroeconomic uncertainty. Even with these external head winds, all four of our European business units saw positive growth this quarter, demonstrating our ability to execute with excellence across this entire region. Germany, once again, led the region, up 3% for the quarter and 2% year-to-date. This marks Germany's seventh consecutive quarter of positive growth.

And, while our business in Germany is winning today, we are connecting with consumers to ensure continued success for tomorrow. An example of this was our award-winning Coca-Cola summer campaign in Germany, which was named the best 2012 out-of-home campaign by Germany's leading marketing industry weekly. Understanding that music is a passion point for teenagers, our campaign in Germany leveraged our global partnership with Spotify, a leading music streaming platform, to offer teenagers access to millions of songs and exclusive Coca-Cola content. This campaign generated more than 1.5 billion contacts and reached more than 90% of all teenagers in Germany as they created their own Coca-Cola play lists and shared them with their friends via Facebook.

We are successfully applying the same consumer engagement principles across regions, as exemplified by our highly successful global activation of the 2012 London Summer Olympic Games. Our internal indicators show that the marketing programs we executed across almost 100 markets drove global improvements in recruitment, frequency, and brand equity with our consumers. Our television commercials were acknowledged by Ace Metrix, as consistently being among the highest rated ads during the Olympics.

Our efforts across the digital and mobile space were also recognized. We received the Digital Gold Award by Unmetric, a brand tracker who analyzed the social media performance of every major sponsor, and we were honored with the Global Marketer of the Year award by the Mobile Marketing Association, while also taking home a best-in-show nod at their awards ceremony for our Olympic Games Move to the Beat campaign.

Our social media program success goes well beyond our Olympics activation. Over just the last nine months, Coca-Cola's Facebook page has grown by over 40%. This past quarter, Coca-Cola became the first brand to achieve over 50 million likes, and as of today, this number has increased further, surpassing 52 million. This rise parallels the growth of our social engagement footprint across all major social networks that generate conversation and content with our consumers. The recent study by PQ Media found that Coca-Cola was the number one brand in social media impressions by nearly a two to one margin over the next, most mentioned brand.

Another area of emphasis for our system is to support sustainable communities by replenishing 100% of the water used in our finished beverages by 2020. To advance this goal, we recently announced a global clean water partnership with DEKA Research and Development to bring clean water to communities where potable water access is limited. This partnership will leverage innovative technology to deliver clean drinking water to schools, health clinics, and community centers in rural regions of Africa, Asia, and Latin America. When fully scaled, this partnership is expected to add more than 0.5 billion liters of clean drinking water per year to the global water supply. Where water is the life blood of our business, we're committed to doing our part to replenish the water we use and give back to communities we proudly serve. By partnering with DEKA, we hope to empower local entrepreneurs with a specific focus on women by delivering as well as maintaining a clean water solution for communities and improving the daily lives of thousands of people around the world.

Finally, we were humbled and honored earlier this month when brand Coca-Cola topped the list of Interbrand's Best Global Brands rankings. Interbrand has rated brand Coca-Cola the number one brand on its list every year since 2000. This is a testament to our ongoing commitment to invest in our brands, innovate our marketing, and engage with our consumers in a sustainable manner that builds long-term value.

Certainly, the world has been very volatile from a macroeconomic perspective over the last four years. As a global Company, and also on behalf of all our associates, I'm pleased to say that we continue to crack the calculus for growth in this challenging and volatile environment. We've done this by consistently increasing our investments in our system and our brands to ensure that our global portfolio is more relevant and healthier today than it has ever been during our history. We remain resolutely focused on ensuring that we leverage our unique heritage and fuse it with what is expected by our consumers today, in order to earn and sustain our place in their daily lives, today and tomorrow.

I want to thank all of our consumers who invite us into their lives 1.8 billion times each and every day. I want to thank all of our shareholders for your interest and investment in our Company. It's a great responsibility. You can rest assured that our entire leadership team is working diligently to protect and grow the value of your investment in our Company, both today and for tomorrow. So with that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. We delivered another quarter of solid performance results reflecting our global system's ability to consistently execute our strategic plans while managing through a still unpredictable macroeconomic environment. As you'll recall, I provided a commentary about the third quarter during our last earnings call because we knew there were several unique timing and cycling factors to consider when modeling the third quarter. Taking these factors into account, I'm pleased to say that our third-quarter results were consistent with the commentary we provided in our last earnings call. And as such, we remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year volume, revenue, and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.

So, let me start our review with our third-quarter results, with our comparable earnings per share, which came in at $0.51 this quarter, and at $1.56 on a year-to-date basis -- up 2% year-to-date, despite facing considerable currency headwinds throughout the year. Our comparable currency neutral operating income was up 1% this quarter, in line with our expectations, and on a comparable basis, the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 7% headwind. On a year-to-date basis, our comparable currency neutral operating income is up 4%, also in line with our expectations. As per my previous comment, we expect to deliver full-year operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets, and we understand that this implies we will achieve double-digit comparable currency neutral operating income growth in the fourth quarter. Comparable currency neutral net revenues grew 6% in the quarter. The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 5% headwind. On a year-to-date basis, comparable currency neutral net revenue growth is also at 6%.

As we discuss profit and revenue growth rates, let me take a moment to remind everyone that the profits and revenues generated by some of our more recent strategic partnerships, including Ojon and Innocent, among others, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. So, while unit cases related to these businesses are fully reflected in our volume growth, their associated concentrate sales', or concentrate gallons' associated profits and revenues are not currently contributing to our operating income and revenue growth rates. Instead, these profits are consolidated into our equity income results. While this did not materially impact our third-quarter results, I think it's important, because there is an impact on growth rates.

Returning now to a review of our third-quarter results, our concentrate sales came in slightly ahead of unit case volume by approximately 0.5%. As a reminder, growth rates for concentrate sales and unit cases can vary from quarter to quarter. Having said that, concentrate sales are in line with unit cases year-to-date, and we expect our full-year concentrate sales growth to be in line with unit case volume growth.

As for our consolidated price mix, this came in slightly positive in the quarter, rounding to even, consistent with outlook we provided in our last quarter call. On a year-to-date basis, our consolidated price mix is up 2%. We continue to expect our full-year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2%, in line with our long-term target range.

Our third-quarter comparable gross margins were in line with our second-quarter comparable gross margins. This was a slight improvement over the estimate we provided during our last earnings call, as we successfully offset some of the currency and mix shift headwinds faced by our business. For the full year, we still expect our comparable gross margins to come in below our second- and third-quarter comparable gross margins.

On comparable currency neutral SG&A expenses, they were up 8% in the quarter and 6% year-to-date. These results include a mid-single-digit increase in our third-quarter direct marketing expenses, as we continue to invest in the health and strength of our brands. Our third-quarter SG&A also reflects an increase due to the timing of certain operating expenses, as well as the cost of adding incremental feet on the street, primarily in North America in support of our growing business. And, one point of both our quarter and year-to-date SG&A rate is related to the impact of structural items, primarily in our Bottling Investments Group and North American business. As we look to the rest of the year, we expect our full-year SG&A to come in close to our current year-to-date rate.

Our operating expense leverage was minus four points this quarter, right in line with a minus three to a minus five-point range that we estimated during our last earnings call. As we stated in our last call, we expect this trend to reverse in the fourth quarter, as we benefit from having two additional selling days. This should enable us to achieve slightly positive operating expense leverage on a full-year basis.

Our net interest came in at a positive $16 million in the third quarter, which is ahead of our initial expectations. This raised our year-to-date net interest income to $43 million. Looking ahead, we still expect our net interest to come in as an expense in the fourth quarter primarily due to expected lower rates in some of our international locations, as well as ongoing currency headwinds. As a result, we're updating our full-year net interest income outlook to a $30 million to $40 million range.

Our underlying effective tax rate held steady at 24%, and we expect to carry this 24% tax rate into next year. And, our cash flow from operations increased a very healthy and very strong 15% year-to-date. Our year-to-date share repurchases net of employee stock option exercises totaled $2.3 billion, placing us well on track to achieve the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for full-year 2012 that we communicated at the outset of this year.

With regard to commodities, in our last call, we reduced the estimated full-year incremental impact of our big four commodity cost on our results to $300 million. Based on our latest forecast and hedge positions, we now expect our full-year incremental cost on commodities will come in at approximately $225 million. As for currencies, we previously provided an outlook that we would have an 8% to 9% headwind on an operating income in the third quarter. Today, I can confirm that currency came in slightly better than our initial outlook, resulting in a 7% headwind on third-quarter comparable operating income. Based on our hedge positions, current spot rates, and the cycling of our prior-year rates, we continue to expect currencies to be a mid-single-digit headwind on our operating income in both the fourth quarter and on a full-year basis.

In closing, and as Muhtar said earlier, we are strategically and successfully advancing our global momentum while navigating through a challenging global economy. Our system is focused on maximizing economic profit and long-term cash flow, which allows us to continue to reinvest in the business and anticipate changes in the marketplace and competitive dynamics. While we have made several important and strategic investments this year, our financial priorities remain the same. We'll reinvest in the core business. We still expect to spend around $3 billion in capital expenditures in 2012. We will strategically invest in acquisitions and partnerships to strengthen our bottling system and to increase our position in key nonalcoholic, ready-to-drink growth categories.

We will continue to pay dividends. In 2012, we increased our quarterly dividend 8.5%, and we have returned $4.3 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2011. And further, we expect our Board of Directors to approve another quarterly dividend this week, which, by the way, will be paid in December of this year, as it has been every year since 1934. And, we'll continue to repurchase shares with excess cash. At our current program, which we started in 2006, we've already repurchased 533 million shares at an average price of $31.17. Since our share repurchase program started in 1984, we have repurchased 2.9 billion shares at an average price of $12.55. As a result of our strong cash flow and that of our bottlers, I remain very confident that we can continue to invest and deliver our long-term growth targets on a sustainable basis to achieve our 2020 vision and deliver value to our shareholders. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question today comes from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning. Gary, you talked about the double-digit operating profit growth expected for Q4 versus a 4% year-to-date. I think it's something like 14% you need to hit the 6% lower end of the long-term range for the full year. I know you have the two extra days in the fourth quarter. You mentioned commodities were easing. Anything else about the timing of expenses in the fourth quarter versus year-to-date? As well as what you're lapping in the fourth quarter that will explain the strength? I know last year's fourth quarter was strange, had some of the timing differences related to the CCE transaction. So, I don't know if that's also coming into play in the lap there. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Bill, this is Muhtar. Good morning, again.

BILL PECORIELLO: Hi.

MUHTAR KENT: Let me just address a few of the things in your question, and then Gary will add some more commentary. First, I want to just ensure and stress that our business momentum continues in the midst of ongoing global economic challenges. Our system is very well aligned and on track to achieve our 2020 vision, and the appetite for investment by our bottling partners is strong as it has ever been and consumers' love for our brands is stronger than ever. And as such, we do remain confident in our ability to meet our long-term targets, while also delivering our sustainable, profitable growth, and value for our shareholders.

With respect -- and so -- at the outset. With respect to your question on the fourth quarter, as Gary said, we've -- based on what we know today, we feel very confident that we can dock our ship for 2012 in line with our long-term growth targets for both top line and bottom, in terms of operating profit. And so, as Gary mentioned, that will imply having a double-digit growth in our operating income for the fourth quarter. We feel confident that that can be achieved based on what we know and based on current trends. And, that is a host of reasons, cycling of marketing expenses -- as you saw, total marketing for the Company was up quite significantly in the fourth quarter. We had spend related to -- a one-time spend related to the Olympics, to the UEFA Cup. Spending on our brands in a healthy way, and I think it is important to note that you can find many companies today around the world, around -- in the United States -- around the world that can generate their profit line from no growth in top line. That is not sustainable. We feel very confident that we're doing the right thing for our business, right thing for our brand, and we will dock our ship in 2012 yet again in line with our long-term growth target, despite having -- facing significant commodity headwinds in both 2011. And, cycling, also on top of that, headwinds in 2012 -- investing in our brands, growing our top line, and also earning our price mix. So, I would like to just emphasize that and pass it over to Gary.

BILL PECORIELLO: Okay.

GARY FAYARD: Bill, a couple of things. As you mentioned, the two extra days helped significantly. Both particularly in the finished products business, so both in North America and in BIG. We saw the opposite impact of the one less day in the first quarter. So, the two extra days helps significantly.

There are quite a bit of cycling things. And, you see a lot of that cycling in the third quarter, which made the third quarter so complex. And, that's why we try to give a lot of extra guidance at the end of the second quarter because of the third. But, a lot of that is what we've been saying all year, particularly about the North America business, how we would expect to see sequential improvement in the North America business. If you remember, it went from minus nine to even, now to plus three, and you'll continue to see improvement in North America. The easing of commodities obviously is helping some, although a lot of that commodity now has come through -- the easing has come through into the standard costs. But, that's helping.

And, currency will help as well in that the headwinds of currency from the minus seven in the third quarter to lower in the fourth quarter, not just on the translation of the results, but the transactional impact, particularly inside of BIG, where that currency on the cost of their commodities -- in their cost of goods, we do not pull out our currency neutral calculation. So, the impact of currency does hurt BIG results, and so that will improve as well in the fourth quarter. So, I think everything we're seeing -- the brands are healthy. We've taken price, pricing across the world. We've seen much better elasticities than what we've ever had historically, which has given us a lot of optimism as well.

BILL PECORIELLO: Great. Thank you. Very helpful.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bill.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning, Judy.

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Judy.

JUDY HONG: Just in terms of North America, so it's nice to see the profitability inflect positively in the quarter. If you could maybe talk about, as you look out 2013, your ability to sort of sustain positive pricing mix? And, also just color as it relates to some of the commentary on channel mix that you've alluded to in the last quarter, where you continue to see that pressure in terms of shift towards take-home versus immediate consumption and how that's playing out so far?

MUHTAR KENT: Sure, Judy. Let me address some of those. I'm very pleased with the performance of our United States, US business. I think in terms of -- we've increased total beverage volume and value share in this past quarter once again, driven by the 2% overall volume growth, led by 7% growth in still beverages, while -- and also maintaining sparkling volume on a year-to-date basis. And this is, again, tenth quarter in a row of volume growth in our North America business. And, I think we continue to build our occasion-based, price pack channel strategy that provides increased consumer choice, along with preferred packages, preferred price points, which is very important in this economic environment.

We see also some more positive trends in the channel mix compared to last quarter. I think the overall convenience retail channel in the third quarter was stronger. Industry grew almost, certainly about 4%, almost 5%, and we have not only taken significant pricing -- 3% price mix again in the quarter and maintained it for the full year. But also, we are focused very much on transactions, getting pricing, maintaining share, and growing transactions in the United States. That's the model. That's working.

And specifically, we've got a great package in the 12.5-ounce, which is retailing for under $1 in that channel, for example. And then also, we continue to expand in our Foodservice channel with our innovative [freestamp]. We will pass for the first time this year the 10,000 mark in terms of dispensers deployed in this coming quarter -- in the quarter that we're in -- in the fourth quarter. The average incidence lift there is more than 6%. The volume lift is significant, as well as revenue lift for the customer. So, that's another very important point of reference in our business in the United States.

And, again, our growth is led by strong performance with Coke Zero up almost double-digits in this past quarter, coming back very strongly. Strong performance across multiple categories, such as POWERADE continuing, Gold Peak growing strong double-digits, Fuse growing, smartwater, Glaceau, Minute Maid -- all growing in a very significant manner. So, we feel confident that our North America strategies are working. We are focused on execution. We can always improve and strive for more. We always do. And, we are optimistic about our outlook, despite the challenging competitive, and macroeconomic backdrop. But, important channels, we see better lite coming through in some of the really important critical channels in the third quarter. I hope that's helpful.

GARY FAYARD: Judy, this is Gary. On the rest of your question, on 2013. We're going through business plans now, and on the year-end call, we'll give you an outlook on what we see both for North America and rest of world, as well as -- because that will obviously encompass things like commodities, currencies, et cetera. So, we'll go through that at the end of the year, but we can't do it today.

MUHTAR KENT: And again, just to close the question, we feel confident about sequential improvement in this year, in the fourth quarter, in the US business in terms of results. And, again, we feel that the strategies that we have deployed are working in the United States. We have invested our total marketing again in the United States in the quarter, in this past quarter. It is up. And also, I would say to you that we feel that specifically also that the packaging strategies are working really well for us.

JUDY HONG: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Just have a question regarding productivity in the productivity and reinvestment program. One is just, Gary, if you could give us some idea of how much productivity is contributing to this year? And, where you stand in terms of the 2015 target?

And then, Muhtar, I think in your comments, you talked about the new reporting lines, and how that would help enable leveraging synergies. And so, I just wanted to see if you could tie that comment back to the productivity and reinvestment program? Does it -- do the new reporting -- does the new reporting structure accelerate it? Does it increase, enhance it in some way? Just trying to get a sense of kind of where we stand on productivity.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Bryan. Thanks. This is Gary. On the program, just to remind everyone, what we announced earlier this year is a new productivity and reinvestment program from 2012 through 2015. And, there are $550 million to $650 million composed of quite a few different focus areas, and we would take all of the productivity that we realize and then take that and reinvest it back behind -- into the brands. We have started. We're well on the way. In fact, I can tell you that I have a sight line today to where we can achieve the entire target, so it's not an issue at all on achieving.

Relative to the current year, I would say it is probably in the $40 million to $50 million range that's already been achieved and reflected in the results, or will be in this year. So, it's already flowing through. And, we're doing, I think, really well. Just to remind everyone, the focus areas were around supply chain optimization, around marketing and innovation effectiveness, around operational excellence, which leads to OpEx leverage, and around standardizing data and IT systems. Places where you can really get a lot of leverage and then take that and reinvest it behind the brands. Muhtar on the --?

MUHTAR KENT: And again, Brian, in terms of the structure. I think we have a new leadership structure that is going to be leaner, more effective, more flexible structure, and that is going to drive further, I believe, enhancement in our productivity initiatives. Gary and Ahmet Bozer and Irial and Steve and myself will be -- in terms of looking at these productivity initiatives -- feel confident. And, as Gary can see the -- have sight in the numbers and the productivity being achieved. I think that we will certainly be looking at what we can do to enhance it even further. As you know, we came in in the last productivity cycle for the past three years significantly over our targets, and we feel that we have, again, room to improve always. And also, as Gary said importantly, while we deliver our results, this allows us to continue to invest successfully in making our brands even stronger. That is the key. And, that's what you should always be looking for and that's what we always look for.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bryan.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi. Good morning.

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Bill.

BILL SCHMITZ: Can you just sort of circle the square for me here. So, you had great organic growth in both Latin America and Eurasia with terrific price and mix. But, those are the two regions where you had the biggest margin compression. So, is that really just year-over-year comparisons and maybe some of the FX transaction hit? Because you would have thought that with that kind of growth, perhaps the margins would have been a little bit better?

MUHTAR KENT: Just very quickly on that, I'll tell you first -- we had very significant marketing spend in our international operations and total Company for the third quarter. Our total marketing was up double-digits for our international operations. And, I think that, again, that is partly cycling from prior year, particularly in certain geographic areas. But also, it was to do with the one-time spend related to the Olympics, related to brand building around the UEFA Cup, particularly for Europe. But also, for Eurasia, as well as for Latin America. So, I think you need to take it into that context from the perspective of marketing spend, cycling, and prior-year comparisons, and I'll see if Gary wants to add anything to that.

GARY FAYARD: One thing I would add, and I don't know if this is directly responsive to your question, but I made a few comments in the prepared remarks about volume and how we have different business models like the Innocent, Ojon, et cetera. So, you've got some volume in Eurasia this quarter, for example. So, if you look at the table in the release, if I remember correctly, it would show that Eurasia, Africa's volumes up 11% and comparable currency neutral operating income is up 11% as well. So, you're not seeing a lot of leverage in that.

If you -- but remember, there's no income in there related to Ojon. It's sitting down in equity income. But,the volume is in that 11%. So, if you adjust for that, Eurasia Africa actually has some really nice operating leverage within their P&L. And so, on an operating margins, they are actually sitting in a really nice place for the quarter and year-to-date.

And then, on Latin America, I don't think anything really unusual at all. I think they just continue to hum along as they have for the last number of years, and there's nothing other than we continue to invest in Latin America because it's such a great, great strong market.

MUHTAR KENT: One other thing about Latin America, just want to add context. Couple of years ago, we had this discussion and many, many, many were questioning Latin America's ability to continue to grow. And, I always said, Latin America is just beginning its journey in still beverages. The key is to have balanced growth, still beverages, though, growing of course from a very small base at a higher rate of growth than sparkling beverages. But, I think there's -- Latin America is a great model for how we can continue to grow at even high per capitas for sparkling beverages, entering into new categories. And, I think that is adding tremendous value to our business and also tremendous strength to our bottom line as we continue to progress in Latin America. We are cycling a very strong quarter from Latin America last year, and we still achieved 5%, and generating very healthy returns.

GARY FAYARD: I would add one other thing as well. Probably starting to give you too much detail. But, within the quarter in Latin America, in Brazil actually, they started making -- we started making our initial investments around the 2014 World Cup. That's in marketing. And, while in absolute dollars it's not that big, it will continue. But in fact, it does have an impact of a point or two on the leverage that you're seeing in Latin America. So, I guess all-in, what we're saying is, we're continuing to invest in the brands. We're investing well ahead of the curve. We're getting ready for 2014 World Cup. It's flowing through in the third quarter. And, you'll see it flow through next quarter as well because we are going to make sure that we do these things right.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks. In taking a look at the price mix number -- obviously, didn't come in as strongly as we had anticipated in Europe and the Pacific. Can you talk a little bit about what's driving those price mix numbers? And, how you see that playing out over the next couple of quarters? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Thanks, John. Let's go to Europe first, and there, I think price mix was negative 4. And, there are a couple of things going on there. But, I would say it's primarily actually the economic condition of Europe. And, we've been seeing this flow through for some time now. So, I think it's kind of the new normal until we start seeing some more favorable results.

But, what you're seeing is go to Madrid and look at the cafes, and there aren't a lot of people sitting around drinking Cokes or coffee or whatever. It's a shift in consumer spending in Europe from immediate consumption, much more to future consumption. So, while we grew our volume across the region and across each of the business units, there is a shift. And, it's all about the macroeconomic environment that we're dealing with. So, we feel very confident, because people continue to love the brands. They continue to buy the brands. They are just buying them in more of a take-home because they are not going out. So, it's the macros that are impacting that.

Additionally, if you looked at the growth rates, there's negative geographic price mix in Europe as well. Just look at the growth rates. Europe and Central and Southern Europe grew faster than Spain and northwest Europe. So, that's some of it as well. And, we're cycling through the tax increase in France. So, it's all of those kinds of things together. Don't expect to see it get worse. I think we're kind of at the bottom now and should be okay.

Relative to price mix in the Pacific, I think your initial reaction would probably be, oh, my God, it's minus six, and your initial reaction is probably that it's all China. Well, it's not, actually. A lot of it is actually because if you look at cases in gallons -- while, as I said in the prepared remarks, that gallons are slightly, about 0.5 point ahead of cases in the quarter. In Japan, where Japan volume was up 2, gallons were actually down 2. And, it's normal, and it will be fine at the end of the year. But, that's a 4-point swing in Japan, which as a very high profit per gallon market causes significant price mix, negative price mix. And, that's a large part of what we're seeing in the Pacific. It's not a big deal. I think Japan was pretty much in line year-to-date and will be full year.

JOHN FAUCHER: Got it. That's great. And then, if I can just ask a follow-up on the -- particularly on the Spain piece of this. Which is, are you running on a straight incidence pricing model then in Spain? Because that negative channel mix would probably -- I'm trying to figure out how that's impacting you so quickly. Unless you're providing either, A, you're on a straight incidence in which case the channel mix would hit you immediately? Or, are you providing a little extra funding to the bottlers in terms of trying to help them get through this?

MUHTAR KENT: John, the primary reason -- I would say probably 70% of -- this is Muhtar. 70% of the mix in Europe is geographic, related to the fact that lower price regions like Germany and Eastern Europe and Central Europe were growing faster than some of the other regions in Europe that have a higher pricing, like France, like England. That has really -- like Spain. Spain has one of the highest prices in Europe. So, that has had the biggest contributing factor. One of the reasons for that was very unseasonable weather in Northern Europe during half of the quarter. It's never been wetter in history than the beginning of the quarter -- for two months, 1.5 months, half of the quarter in Northern Europe. So, that is coming back, and we feel that that is one of the primary reasons. As we have more balanced growth in Europe, which we expect will happen. And as Gary said, we feel that it's not going to get any worse than it is, and it may even -- and even in these conditions, we can generate growth and crack the calculus for growth. Then, we feel that that will certainly be coming back quite significantly. Spain remains today on a net revenue per unit case basis, the highest in Europe. I just want to make sure that that commentary gets through. Thank you.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning, everybody. Thank you for the question. Obviously, my concern is definitely around China. And, I'm just wondering how margins in the Pacific would not be impacted by what's happening in China. Can you just dig a little deeper? Was there -- did you have increased promotional activity in China during the quarter? Or, should we expect that in the next period, just as we know the competitive environment there has got more -- both more price competitive and there's more distribution for Pepsi brands there?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, firstly, I think, Caroline, on China, we are confident in our ability to continue growing in China and this important market, despite the changing, as you mentioned, competitive landscape and softness -- comparative softness in the macro conditions. And, our transactions are up a healthy 7% in the past quarter. We have said before in previous quarters that we are focused on transactions and that's the health of the business in China. And certainly, we're driving transactions in a very favorable way. Year-to-date, volume is a solid 6%, and our brands are very strong. We have a clear leadership position in the sparkling category, and I have total confidence in both our bottling partners, Cofco and Swire Beverages, and Bottling Investment Group where -- to continue to deliver.

You have noted from previous calls that on a total comparative basis, relative basis, China's contribution to profit is less than its contribution to volume in the Pacific group, for a number of reasons. One is because we've got much more developed countries that have a much bigger margins for, like, of course, Japan, but like also Australasia. And therefore, it is the impact, even if you were to promote in China and not that -- again, we feel it's a fractional environment, but even if you were to promote, it would not have significant impact on the results of the Pacific group, simply because of the size and scale of the profit pools that are generated out of markets like Japan and out of markets like Australasia. And again, given the size of our Japan profit pool in the Pacific group, what Gary mentioned is the primary cause of that, which is an increase in volume, 2%, but a commensurate decrease at the same percent point in actually concentrate and shipments.

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question today comes from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thanks for taking the question. Good morning. Muhtar, something we could talk a little bit more about, North America C-stores. And, I had two questions there. Firstly, on the sparkling part of your portfolio, can you give us a little more detail on what's going on with some of the smaller pack sizes? I think they were having some difficulty in the second quarter. What's happening there? And also, within sparkling in C-stores, competing products, with Mountain Dew, spending a lot more. What's your strategy versus that particular brand with your portfolio? So, that's on the sparkling side. And then, can you just give us an update on the energy segment sequentially in C-stores?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think in terms of -- firstly, the good news is that there is more positives to talk about the C-store channel in the quarter than in the first half of the year, we feel. And certainly, it is also important to note that we aggressively led the industry on competition in pricing in the channel, and also that industry grew at around, just under, shy of 5%, roughly, in the channel. And, we led the pricing, and we have, again, very healthy growth in transactions. We held share in the channel, and, of course, in total market, and in terms of packaging -- our variety of packages, starting with the entry pack at 12.5-ounce, is really working well for us at the entry price of under $1. And then, that puts us -- our 16-ounce, at significantly ahead of competition and pricing at $1.19. And so on and so forth.

So, I would say, we are very confident and very pleased with the progress that we have in that channel, as we have in the Foodservice channel, where we see increased traffic coming through, particularly in the latter part of the quarter, and then in energy, you asked, we had double-digit volume growth. Our brands were up and gained volume and value share in the energy channel in -- which is primarily the C-store -- convenience store channel. But also, I would say that our variety of packages, including the mini cans, 8.5-ounce mini cans and all the way through the 1.25-liter, combined with the 2-liter, et cetera, are working really well for us in the future consumption channel as well.

MARK SWARTZBERG: So, it sounds like Mountain Dew -- of all the things competitively happening in C-stores, Mountain Dew is not on the margin a big impact on your business, at least for now?

MUHTAR KENT: I wouldn't want to comment on competition. I just would say that I think it's healthy for everyone.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you. So, thank you, Gary and Jackson. And, in closing, we had a strong third quarter. Have again delivered quality year-to-date performance results. Our business continues to grow, even in the midst of global economic challenges. Our system is clearly aligned, on track to achieve our 2020 vision. The appetite for investment by our bottling partners is as strong as it has ever been. And together, as a system, we continue to invest in our brands on a global scale through world class marketing and also through world class commercial strategies. And as a result, consumers' love for our brands is stronger than ever. As always, we thank you for your interest and your investment in our Company and for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. Thank you so much for joining. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121030e8ag0018h
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,001 words
   PD
17 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's Second-Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objection, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and, therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.

I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP AND IR OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we'll turn the call over for your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com, under the reports and financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principals. Please look on our website for this information.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased with our second-quarter and year-to-date results. We're delivering consistent, topline performance, in line with our 2020 vision and long-term growth targets, despite an increasingly unpredictable global economy. Our business realized solid topline results this past quarter, growing worldwide volume by 4% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date. Our second-quarter comparable currency-neutral net revenue was up 7% in the quarter, driven by solid price mix of 3%. Year-to-date comparable currency-neutral net revenue was also up 7%, and our comparable currency-neutral operating income also grew 7% in the quarter, raising our year-to-date operating income growth to 6%.

We, once again, led industry growth, extending our volume and value share gains globally in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. We gained global share in the sparkling beverage category, where our portfolio is now up 3% year-to-date. This was driven by the global growth of brand Coca-Cola, which is also up a healthy 3% year-to-date. We gained global share in the still beverage category with where our portfolio grew a solid 9% in both the quarter, as well as year-to-date. Importantly, we delivered these results while further enhancing the well-being of the communities and customers we proudly serve, and the consumers whose lives we touch each and every day. During today's call, as we discuss our performance, I'll also share a few of the meaningful ways we are serving our communities across our geographic operations, as these efforts are an integral part of realizing and sustaining our 2020 vision.

We recognize that consumers across the globe continue to feel the effects and impacts of prolonged uncertainty in Europe, the further cooling of the economy in China, and the protracted recovery here in the United States. Despite this, our consistent quality performance results, as well as our system's commitment to invest in the business for long-term growth, give us confidence that we have the right strategies and the right plans in place to deliver full-year 2012 results that meet our long-term growth targets. For in times like these, there is no better industry to be in than the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage industry. We're proud to be part of a strong and growing industry that passionately serves millions of outlets, and refreshes billions of consumers every single day.

Now let us review our performance results across our global markets in more detail, beginning with our flagship market, North America, where this past quarter our business delivered its ninth consecutive quarter of growth, up 1% for both the quarter, as well as year-to-date. Importantly, we achieved this growth in North America while sustaining a positive 3% price mix for our total beverage business. And in the process, we once again captured value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages this quarter, consistent with our focus on driving profitable growth in North America. This growth was led by our still beverage portfolio, which was up 8% this quarter, gaining both volume and value share across nearly all of the categories in which we compete.

In sports drinks, Powerade once again grew double digits this quarter, while also capturing volume and value share. This marks the third consecutive quarter in which Powerade has led the North America sports drink category in absolute unit case volume growth. Our Glaceau brands, up 5% this quarter, also captured share, driven by the further momentum of Vitamin Water Zero, up high-single digits, as well as by another quarter of double-digit growth for smartwater. In addition, smartwater began using plant-bottled packaging this past May, as we further leveraged this proprietary innovative and sustainable packaging that we launched nationally with our Dasani water brand last year. Speaking of Dasani, this brand provided yet another quarter of double-digit growth in North America, delivering both volume and value share gains.

The acceleration of our tea portfolio in North America also continued this quarter, up double digits, while gaining both volume and value share. This result was led by Gold Peak, which has now grown double digits for 21 consecutive quarters. Finally, our juice and juice drink portfolio in North America was up 3%, led by high-single-digit growth for our Simply brands, as well as mid-single-digit growth for our Minute Maid brands. These results solidify our share leadership in the high value 100% chilled orange juice segment.

Our sparkling beverages in North America were down 2% in our second quarter, in line with the broader sparkling beverage industry's results during the same April to June timeframe. Importantly, our sparkling beverage portfolio earned a positive 5% price mix this quarter in a rational pricing environment.

We also sustained our momentum behind both Coke Zero and Fanta, with both these brands up mid-single digits this quarter. We're particularly pleased to see this continued solid growth for Coke Zero in North America, considering that this brand's baseline was built off of five consecutive years of double-digit growth. This winning track record reflects our commitment to sustainable innovation that delivers year-over-year growth, and Coca-Cola's brand equity scores keep improving, with Coca-Cola's favorite brand score among the total US population up when compared to a year ago. This favorite brand score for Coca-Cola is now nearly 2 times greater than the score of its primary competitor. Finally, our Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispenser, which recently won the gold innovation award from the National Automatic Merchandising Association, is now available in more than 4,400 outlets across North America.

One of the many ways we've consistently served our communities in North America is through our investments and initiatives that promote physical activity and well-being. A good example is how we are encouraging physical activity through our Sprite Spark Parks project. Launched in 2011, this project has supported the construction and refurbishment of more than 150 neighborhood parks, athletic fields, and basketball courts. We're also partnering with the National Foundation for Governors' Fitness Councils and the American College of Sports Medicine to build gyms in schools across the country. Last month, we announced that we will dedicate $5 million to provide 100 communities with new fitness centers for schools.

While our commitment to our communities, both in North America as well as across the globe, goes well beyond just physical activity programs, we will always encourage our consumers to be healthy and active, and provide them with opportunities to do so, for this is at the heart of our brand values. In summary, we have every reason to remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for this market, which has the best demographics of the developed world, and remains an unparalleled center of innovation and entrepreneurial activity.

Now, let me turn to our Pacific group, which grew 8% in both the quarter and year-to-date, including 6% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola. Additionally, our Pacific group captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages this quarter. During our last earnings call, we shared our expectation that our volume growth in China might moderate to some extent, as our business would not be immune to China's cooling economy. In fact, China's GDP growth rate is at a three-year low, yet still above 7%. As anticipated, the broader beverage industry in China has felt the impact of this economic slowdown. Despite this, our business in China delivered 7% growth in the second quarter, while cycling a strong 21% growth from last year. Year-to-date growth in China was a solid 8%, cycling 17% from last year.

The right-size packaging efforts we put in place in China last year keep generating consistent, strong, incremental transactions, in line with our expectations. As such, both sparkling beverage and total beverage transactions were up double digits for both the quarter, as well as year-to-date in China. And importantly, we, once again, captured both volume and value share in the sparkling beverage category in China this past quarter. We're very excited about our opportunities in this region. Our clear focus on building our business for sustainable growth provides us with confidence that China will continue to serve as a double-digit growth market over the long-term.

Our business in Japan delivered yet another quarter of strong growth, with volume up 4%, bringing our year-to-date growth in this important critical market to up to 4% as well on a year-to-date basis. Importantly, these results in Japan were broad-based, with growth seen across all channels including convenience stores as well as vending. And our Japan business gained both volume and value share in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage category this quarter.

Looking ahead, we expect our third-quarter volume results in Japan to moderate below our 4% year-to-date trend, as we enter what is forecasted to be a cooler summer season when compared to last summer's historically record hot temperatures. Having said that, we remain confident that our system in Japan is well-aligned and in a strong position to deliver full-year, low-single-digit growth in 2012.

I also want to update our results in Thailand. Our business in this market sustained its solid momentum, growing over 20% for both the quarter and year-to-date. In the process, we gained volume and value share in Thailand across nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, as well as in both sparkling and still beverage categories. We're excited about the future growth opportunities in Thailand, and will keep investing for the future in this vibrant market.

As for the Philippines, we just celebrated the 100th anniversary of our entry into this market. Importantly, we again captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages in the Philippines, and have grown our volume in mid-single digits for both the quarter, as well as year-to-date. We launched our 5 by 20 program in the Philippines almost exactly one year ago. As background, this program is our global initiative to enable the economic empowerment of 5 million woman entrepreneurs by 2020. In the Philippines, we are working with local partners to implement a pilot business skills training program, and we are now in the process of scaling up this program nationwide to economically empower 100,000 woman store owners and operators by 2020. We believe there is no better investment we can make to spur economic growth and foster sustainable development.

Moving now to Latin America, our volume grew 3% for the quarter, and is up 4% year-to-date. This growth was, once again, led by brand Coca-Cola, up 3% year-to-date. In the process, we once again captured both volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in Latin America, as well as share gains in both sparkling and still beverages. In Mexico, our volume growth in the quarter was up 1%, as we cycled a very strong 10% growth from previous year. This brings our year-to-date volume growth in Mexico to 2%, while cycling 12% from last year. Importantly, we once again outperformed the beverage industry in Mexico, capturing nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share, as well as in sparkling and still beverages.

In Brazil, our business continued to deliver solid results, with volume growth up 6% in the quarter and 5% year-to-date. And our business in Brazil is also driving industry growth, gaining both volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages, as well as, again, in sparkling and still beverages. Looking ahead, we expect our 2012 growth results in Brazil to hold steady at low- to mid-single digits, especially in light of recent revisions to the Brazilian economy's GDP forecast for the remainder of this year.

Our Eurasia and Africa business extended its momentum, growing a strong 12% in the quarter and 11% year-to-date, including solid 11% year-to-date growth for brand Coca-Cola. This group's overall performance was once again led by India, which grew a strong 20% for both the quarter and year-to-date, delivering balanced and consistent growth across all beverage categories. Sparkling beverage growth in India was led by brand Coca-Cola, up 35% in the quarter and 32% year-to-date. In still beverages in India, our Maaza juice brand was up over 30% in both quarter and year-to-date. And importantly, our business in India captured volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, and also in both sparkling and still beverages.

I was recently in India, where we announced our system's plan to increase investments in India by $3 billion, bringing total system investments to $5 billion between now and 2020. These investments will drive innovation, and enable our efforts to deliver a portfolio that enhances the consumer experience and builds brand loyalty to deliver long-term sustainable growth.

Russia was up 9% this quarter, raising our year-to-date growth to 7%. The steady acceleration of our business in Russia was once again led by the strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola, which grew 23% in the quarter, and is now up 22% year-to-date. Similarly, strong results were also observed across our broader sparkling portfolio, as Fanta and Sprite both registered double-digit growth this past quarter in Russia. And our Dobri juice brand delivered 12% growth in the quarter, bringing this brand's year-to-date results to double digits. As a result, our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry, gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share.

We also saw robust growth across the rest of Eurasia and Africa region this quarter, including double-digit growth in South Africa and the Middle East, as well as North Africa region. Lastly, we finalized our acquisition of approximately 50% the equity of Aujan Industries this past quarter. As a reminder, Aujan holds the number-one position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East. Between our solid performance, the strength of our bottling partners, and our new partnership with Aujan, it is easy to see why we are so excited about the future of our business in this dynamic part of the world.

Moving now to Europe, where our volume was down 4% for the quarter, cycling strong 5% growth from last year. As a result, our business in Europe is now down 2% on a year-to-date basis, cycling 3% growth from prior year. This past quarter, Europe was challenged by both historically unseasonable inclement weather, as well as ongoing macro uncertainty. Despite this, our business in Europe held share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, as well as sparkling beverages, while capturing both volume and value share in still beverages. Germany remains the bright spot in this region, up 1% for the quarter and 2% on a year-to-date basis. This marks Germany's sixth consecutive quarter of positive growth. Importantly, we once again captured volume and value share in ready-to-drink beverages. This serves as a solid evidence that we have the right brands, the right strategies, and the right capabilities in place to deliver long-term sustainable growth in this critically important market.

We recently concluded our highly successful activation of the UEFA Euro 2012 football tournament. In recent consumer surveys, Coca-Cola was overwhelmingly recognized as the tournament's primary brand sponsor, with its brand awareness translating into volume and value share gains in the tournament's host nations. We're also very excited about the special opportunity to grow the value of our brands even further through our investment in the 2012 London Summer Olympics. From a brand standpoint, we shared last quarter how our Olympics Move to the Beat program has been launched globally, and activated in over 100 markets.

Additionally, to brand Coca-Cola, we're leveraging this unique platform to activate a fully integrated global Olympic Powerade program in more than 35 markets all across the world. This will be Powerade's first global activation program since its launch 20 years ago at the 1992 Barcelona Olympic Games. And in keeping with our LivePositively culture, we've placed our commitment to sustainable communities at the heart of our Olympic activation efforts. This year, we're offering the widest range of drinks and sizes ever to be made available at the Olympic Games, and we pledge that all bottles collected at the Olympic Games venues will be recycled and back on shelves within a short six weeks. We have also updated the labels for our Coca-Cola packages to present consumers with a clear recycling call to action. And we've also created more than 120 permanent Coca-Cola recycle zones all across Great Britain.

Before closing, let me say how pleased we are with this past quarter, when Coca-Cola was recognized as the number-one brand by CoreBrand, based on a survey tracking the corporate brands of 1,000 companies across 54 industries. This is the 11th straight year we have received this honor. This is especially gratifying since CoreBrand's rankings are based on a poll of 10,000 business professionals, with rankings based on brand familiarity, reputation, perception of management, as well as investment potential.

While all of us at the Coca-Cola Company are proud of our performance year-to-date, we believe that our best days are still ahead. Our 2020 vision provides our system with a clear roadmap for growth. Our consistent quality, volume, value and profit results demonstrate that our global bottling system is very well aligned, and poised for execution. As we look ahead for the balance of this year, we understand that consumers still face an unpredictable environment. Having said that, we remain confident that we have the well-loved brands, vision, and roadmap with our global bottling partners to effectively navigate today's environment.

We will continue to passionately refresh a thirsty world. We will do so by offering a growing choice of quality beverages that refresh and hydrate our consumers, while bringing them simple moments of happiness. We will do so by sustaining our commitments to communities and to the many well-being initiatives we support. And we will do so by ensuring that we always place our highest priority on creating sustainable value for our consumers, for our customers, and for our shareholders.

With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP AND CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. We delivered solid results this quarter, demonstrating, once again, that despite an unpredictable environment, our global system is well-positioned to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 vision. Let me start with our comparable earnings per share, which came in at $1.22 this quarter, up 4% versus the prior year. This raises our year-to-date comparable earnings per share growth to 4% as well. Our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 7% this quarter, increasing our year-to-date comparable currency-neutral operating income to 6%. On a comparable basis, the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 5% headwind.

Comparable currency-neutral net revenues grew 7% this quarter, including a 3% increase in concentrate sales and a 3% positive price mix. The currency impact from this quarter's comparable net revenue results was a 4% headwind. On a year-to-date basis, our comparable currency-neutral net revenue growth held steady at 7%.

We also maintained our consolidated price mix at a positive 3% this quarter. In fact, we realized positive price mix across every one of our geographic operating groups this quarter. Looking ahead, we will cycle higher price mix comparisons during the back half of 2012, which will lead to lower consolidated price mix results in the third and fourth quarters. Having said that, we continue to expect our full-year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2%, in line with our long-term target range.

Our gross margins softened a little further this past quarter, particularly in late May and June. This sequential trend is being driven by both ongoing currency headwinds, as well as by changes in channel and package mix across markets, as today's economic conditions are leading consumers to temporarily shift their channel and package preferences. As we look ahead, we anticipate that these currency and mix shift headwinds will continue through 2012. As such, we now expect our full-year 2012 comparable gross margin to come in below our second-quarter gross margin, with this headwind primarily observed in the third quarter of 2012. Despite this, we remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year comparable currency-neutral operating income growth in line with our long-term growth targets. Our comparable currency-neutral SG&A expenses were up 5% in both the quarter and year-to-date. These results include an overall increase in year-to-date direct marketing expenses, as we sustain our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands.

Our operating expense leverage once again came in positive this quarter, bringing our year-to-date operating expense leverage up to 1 point, in line with our previously stated outlook. We now expect our third-quarter operating expense leverage to range between a negative 3 and negative 5 points. However, this pressure on operating expense leverage is expected to reverse in the fourth quarter, especially as we benefit from having two additional selling days in the fourth quarter, enabling us to achieve slightly positive operating expense leverage on a full-year basis.

Our net interest came in even in the second quarter, exactly in line with the outlook we provided in our last earnings call. This held our year-to-date net interest income at $27 million. We now expect our net interest to come in as a slight expense in the back half of the year, primarily due to expected lower rates in some of our international locations, as well as ongoing currency headwinds. As a result, we are now updating our full-year net interest income outlook to $10 million to $20 million, with the net interest expense that we see in the second half of 2012 evenly spread between the third and fourth quarters.

Our underlying effective tax rate now stands at 24%, which is an improvement over the 24.8% rate we communicated during our last earnings call. We expect to be able to carry this 24% tax rate through the remainder of this year and into next year.

Our cash flow from operations increased a very strong 15% year-to-date. Our year-to-date net share repurchases totaled $1.6 billion. This places us well on track to achieve the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for full-year 2012 that we communicated at the outset of this year.

With regard to commodities, in our last call we said that we expected the full-year 2012 incremental impact of our big four commodity costs on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million. We also said that if current trends held, we could see this outlook slowly improve. Today I can confirm, based on our latest forecast, we now expect our full-year incremental cost on commodities to come in closer to $300 million.

As for currencies, we previously provided an outlook that they would have a mid-single-digit negative impact on our full-year operating income. Today, we are still seeing the dollar strengthen against other currencies, including many of those that we do not traditionally hedge because it's not effective to do so due to the high cost associated with these hedges. As such, and based on our hedge positions, current spot rates and the cycling of our prior-year rates, we expect currencies to have an 8% to 9% negative impact on operating income in the third quarter. In addition, we now expect the full-year impact of currencies on our operating income to be a headwind at the high end of the previously communicated mid-single-digit range.

There's one housekeeping item to keep in mind as you update your models. Our share owners recently approved a 2-for-1 stock split, which will double the number of outstanding shares in August.

In closing, as we reach the halfway point of 2012, we find ourselves navigating through a challenging global economy. The recovery in the United States remains moderate, and consumer sentiment is still challenged. Consumers in Europe are feeling the effects of that region's prolonged macroeconomic uncertainty, and the economy in China, while still growing, continues to demonstrate signs of cooling. But it's important to put today's challenges and our business results in the proper perspective, for while consumers may be feeling some pressure in these markets, we continue to execute with excellence. We are earning price and gaining value share in North America, while sequentially improving profitability. We're holding our share in Europe while investing in our brands for long-term growth, and we're delivering double-digit transactions growth in China, as we solidify our leadership across multiple categories in this growing market.

The bottom line is that we are successfully managing our business for the long-term, while delivering consistent and solid top-line and bottom-line results. Our system is healthy and as financially strong as ever, generating solid cash flow and investing to support our world-class portfolio of brands. We are also investing across the globe to support the long-term health and well-being of our communities, customers, and consumers. Importantly, we continue to reward our share owners, prudently managing our investments to deliver quality results, while also paying a healthy dividend. As we look ahead to the rest of 2012 and a protracted and unpredictable economic recovery, we're encouraged by our consistent results, as well as by our faith in our 2020 vision, and remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year volume, revenue, and operating income results in line with our long-term growth targets.

Operator, we're now ready for the questions, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Muhtar, considering the tough global macroeconomic backdrop, your Q2 results were certainly impressive. But you've been talking about, on the call today, some of the incremental global macro headwinds we're seeing that are decelerating further in certain markets. What's giving you the confidence that the Coca-Cola Company can continue the strong performance during the second half of the year? And what specific actions is the Company taking to offset the incremental headwinds? You mentioned some of the packaging shifting and maybe is there any reallocation of market spending, et cetera?

MUHTAR KENT: I'd just start by saying firstly we're very fortunate that our business has been doing well in recent years. I think operating in this environment has become the norm for us; it's not the passing feature now operating in this very volatile and unpredictable environment. I think that we're meeting the long-term growth targets set out for our 2020 vision, even in difficult economic circumstances. I think part of our success has been because there's been a healthy appetite for investment across our global bottling system in this environment and stronger than it's been for a long time. Our 2020 vision is a system vision. It's focused on long-term growth collectively with our partners, bottling partners. When you look back at 2010, 2011, the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry grew by about $65 billion in total retail dollar value.

We're pleased to say that our system represented nearly 40% of that total industry growth; well above our fair share, underscoring that vision and that collective effort and that investment is working. That said, we're naturally keenly aware of how turbulent the economic landscape is today and we'll continue to be this year. We've said many times before, during the past few years that we may hit a bump in the road given the continued volatility in the macroenvironment, but that we are focused on meeting our long-term growth targets and realizing our 20/20 vision and so far I think you can say that a quarter after quarter, we've proven that. All of us at Coca-Cola, the entire system remain constructively discontent. We know that we can always do better and I think you've got to realize we've got a wonderful portfolio of geographic regions.

Not all of them will ever do well all the time, but just like this past quarter, where we had very unseasonable weather in Europe, we had tremendous, again, negative consumer sentiment brewing in Europe, we still have delivered our results and we will continue to do so. Then also, quarter after quarter, we are gaining share. Quarter after quarter, our business, our top brands have been improving. Brand health metrics, I keep on saying that is an important metric to look at. When you look at the past quarters, back to 2011 versus today, we've, again, delivered very strong increments of improvement in our Coke, Fanta, Sprite brand scores as well as weekly plus drinkers. As you go around the world, I think, certainly, there is a sentiment that this is going to be a prolonged crisis, that high levels of unemployment are here to stay, both in Europe as well as in the United States. Also that there's a little, somewhat cooling-off of economies in Asia, particularly China.

But in this environment, I don't believe there's a better business and there is a better system to continue to crack the calculus for growth. When you look at BRICS, Brazil, Russia, India, and China and the sub-Saharan Africa, referred to as the BRICS nations, we grew, in Q2, a combined plus 8%. It's worth noting that those markets represent nearly 400 million cases of incremental growth last year. We continue to generate significant growth in those emerging markets and we continue to create growth in developed markets like Japan and what you saw in this past quarter, as well as the United States; ninth consecutive quarter of growth in the United States. When we first talked about that, again, in the midst of economic turmoil, back 2.5 years ago, very few people thought that we could achieve that. That's why I have confidence, Bill, that we believe that we can continue to meet our long-term growth targets, despite a very volatile, unpredictable, and prolonged economic recovery.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan Chase.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Gary, wanted to talk a little bit about the operating leverage guidance going forward, particularly for the third quarter. You talked a little bit about the gross margin impact. In order to get to that type of negative deleveraging, we'd probably have to see a little higher level of SG&A spending, so can you talk a little bit about that? Also, can you talk about some of the improvement that you've started to show in North America in terms of operating profit growth there? The question is, are you expecting North America to also get better from here? Because if it does, that also makes the operating leverage in Q3 seem a little bit more surprising. Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: A very good question and I'm going to have to take it in pieces and parts, if I could, and see if we can put all that together and come up with the answer on it. But, let's start at gross margin, first, because I think that's the most important place to start. Even on gross margin, I think you've got to split it into a couple of pieces; split the Company, look at [BIG] and international operations and then North America. On BIG and international, a lot of the gross margin pressure there, is really FX currency headwinds. It's coming through in cost of sales and there's an impact on revenue and so that is causing some margin pressure. The highest impact of exchange rates, highest headwind impact of exchange rates on us this year will be in the third quarter and then it starts moderating again on what we are cycling. That's the first thing.

The second thing, while we're on international, on margins, particularly, is our expectation, as we just said is that in Japan, we think growth is going to moderate slightly from the very strong 4% that we've seen year-to-date in Japan. They're going to still have a very good year, but I think that'll moderate and that'll be some margin compression on the total Company. Then, if you go to North America, I think I'd say we've been very pleased. We've seen sequential improvement in North America from first quarter operating income was down 9, 10-ish. This quarter, it's even and I think we'll continue to see sequential improvement, albeit kind of slow improvement and I'll go into why in North America. In North America, I think what we're seeing and what we saw happen, actually, in the United States is in about mid-May, we started seeing consumer shifts and the consumer started changing behavior. We think temporarily, but I think it's just you pick up the newspaper, you turn on the television, and you see huge economic issues all over the world, whether it's no job creation in the US to all of the issues in Europe, China slowing somewhat.

What we then saw was the consumer change go more toward future consumption packages and channels versus immediate consumption. One of the things that is a little surprising and I think we'll have to see how this goes, and I think it's for sure a temporary shift, but as the price of gasoline came down in that May/June time period, normally what you would see, particularly and convenience retail, is your immediate consumption should go up and it did not. That, I think, it's probably going to continue somewhat through the third quarter. Again, some margin pressure. That's what is leading us to that gross margin and that's the primary part of it.

We've got and then we're cycling some things last year relative to SG&A. I think there will be some increase in SG&A, particularly in the third quarter, and that kind of cycles out in the fourth. You put all that together, that's kind of where we get to on the negative 3 to 5 points of leverage in the third quarter coming back in the fourth quarter to slightly positive and the kind of gross margin as well.

JOHN FAUCHER: Got it.

GARY FAYARD: John, that was a long answer, but I think it's complicated, because there a lot of different parts to it.

MUHTAR KENT: Also, John, just one other point on what Gary mentioned in terms of the immediate consumption business. I think if you take our top 22 countries in the world, in Q1, we had probably more than 15 of them realize very positive IC growth. In Q2 we had about 11 countries out of our top 22 markets that had IC growth. The primary reason for that was the very, very, very poor summer and the start to the very poor summer in Europe. I think that is also an important factor that has to be kept in mind. It was a very unseasonable situation in Europe and hopefully it will reverse itself in the coming months.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, thanks, Muhtar. Gary, is it safe to say that the leverage piece is transactional? You're looking at transactional on the leverage piece and then the translational piece is separate. Is that kind of how we look at it, at least internationally? Is that what you're telling us from an FX standpoint?

GARY FAYARD: Say it a different way to make sure I understand your question.

JOHN FAUCHER: In terms of, there's transactional FX impacts as opposed to translational FX impacts. Is that the raw material increase in dollars in the local currencies that's driving the negative leverage from a BIG standpoint?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, yes. You've got transactional impact on revenue, but then you've got transactional impact on cost of goods as well.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Great, thank you very much.

GARY FAYARD: Exactly right, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, BofA.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Just wanted to follow-up on John's question on operating leverage. Just a couple of points of clarification. First, on the commodity cost increase expectation for the year of $300 million, how much has actually happened so far year-to-date?

GARY FAYARD: Hello, Brian, this is Gary. I would say probably about half of it. I think it's going to be pretty well sequential through the year and a lot we've already locked in and hedged. It's pretty well, probably about half, maybe slightly less than half.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. In terms of the effect on gross margins of your outlook for price mix having less of a contribution in the first half of the year versus the second half, I just wanted to make sure I was clear that this is just simply a phasing of the way your pricing, your plan pricing, rolled through the year. It's not an expectation or a change in plan in terms of being more promotional or promoting back at all for the second half?

GARY FAYARD: Yes. No, Brian, it's exactly what you said. That's exactly right. It is what our normal pricing had been what we're cycling just as we phase through the year. We have not engaged in anything relative to change into more promotional or anything. It's normal pricing and normal cycling. In fact, if anything, I would tell you that the pricing environment has stayed, particularly in the US, has stayed very rational. Some of our competitors internationally are doing a lot of promotional pricing, but that's kind of normal. What you're seeing is exactly what we plan to do the whole year, have not deviated at all.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. The last piece would just be in terms of understanding the different pieces on geographic mix, Europe is a high-margin market for you and it sounds like, given the performance and just the outlook in terms of the macro that you're expecting less of a contribution from Europe than you normally would expect. Now we're talking about profit contribution. A, is that the right way to think about it? B, or second, is there anything that you're doing specifically in Europe to support profits while you've still got or to boost profitability while you've got a soft patch from a demand perspective?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, you are right on Europe, it is a high-margin, high profitability business for us and we're continuing to hold share. We are seeing some weakness there, obviously down 4% in the quarter. I think it's important to recognize that weather is probably as much to do with what we saw in the second quarter as the economic macros. Probably 50/50 on all of Europe and probably even more so for Northwest Europe. Britain had the wettest summer so far that it's had in over the last 100 years. The weather's been unbelievably bad. If it turns, and I don't want to use weather as an excuse, if it turns, things will be better. We're not anticipating that, but hopefully that'll be somewhat better.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay.

GARY FAYARD: We are cycling a pretty good summer from last year, a very good summer for last year as well.

MUHTAR KENT: I think, Bryan, in Europe, we've got very, very strong programs in place. We've just finished one of the most successful euro activations. We have just embarking upon the Olympics programs, which, globally, are going to be activated in over 100 markets. We've never had that happen before. We've reached the greenest ever Olympics. We believe that our business is very strong in Europe and as Gary said, I think there has been an anomaly in the weather. But having said that, if you look at the past, in the last two years, Europe has really performed better than expectations given how bad the consumer sentiment was deteriorating in Europe.

This should not be taken as a kind of a fall off the cliff, but certainly, Europe is going to continue to be challenging as an environment, but our business gets essentially stronger in Europe because our brands are stronger. We're investing with our bottlers, both CCE, our [bearing] bottlers, as well as Coca-Cola Hellenic. I do believe that probably there was some factors, one-off factors, that created the current results as opposed to it being taken as a given for the rest. But I do also believe that I think you need to understand that we're in for a very protracted recovery in Europe.

GARY FAYARD: Bryan, I'd add one thing. If you back to our conference call in the first quarter, if you go back to the transcript, you asked a question on the call and I think one of the last things I said to you in answering your question was remember we are managing this business as a marathon and not a sprint and that's exactly what you're hearing us say today. We're in a marathon, we're in this to win. We are gaining and furthering the distance between ourselves and our competitors every quarter. We're going to continue to do that and we can feel very good that we've got the right plans in place to do it.

OPERATOR: Bonnie Herzog, Wells Fargo.

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I had a question on China. You've talked about the volume in China slowing due to economic slowdown. I was hoping you could provide a little more color on some of the symptoms of a soft landing you're seeing in your business by some of your key categories and then possibly by area or region. I also would be curious to hear how your business in China performed in the quarter compared to what your expectations were early on this quarter?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Bonnie, thank you. I think during our last earnings call, again, I think we shared our expectation that our volume growth in China might moderate to some extent as a, the businesses is not going to be totally immune to the cooling, particularly along the coastal areas of China. I think as anticipated, the broader beverage industry in China has also felt the impact of that slowdown in the first half of 2012. It was not, in terms of expectations, it's probably where we expected the business to land in terms of how we saw the marketplace developing. I think year-to-date growth in China being a solid 8% cycling plus 17% from prior year, I believe we're content. But certainly, we'll always try to achieve double-digit growth, but importantly, importantly, the right sizing packaging efforts that we put into place in China last year continue to generate consistent incremental transactions in line with our expectations. In fact, a little bit ahead of our expectations.

As such, our total beverage transactions, and you've heard us talk about transactions being really very good metric for the health of the business, were up double-digits for both the quarter, up about 12% and also on a year-to-date basis, up about 14%. Just want to stress that really important point. Again, we captured both volume and value share significantly in the sparkling beverage category in China in this past quarter. Our brands, particularly in the sparkling category, have been doing very well and transactions, as I say, which is a great help for the business, have been progressing well. In terms of regions, I think the northern regions and the regions, more inland regions are doing a little better than the coastal regions in China and I think we'll continue to see that throughout the year as some consumers have moved back into the central and inland regions of China, given some of the slowing down of the export businesses along the coast.

BONNIE HERZOG: Just a quick follow-on, are you seeing any signs of slowdown in any other parts of Asia? Is it spreading in any way?

MUHTAR KENT: We are not. I would say Vietnam, Southeast Asia, Philippines actually is doing better. We talked about Philippines having a kind of coming off the cliff a little bit after the elections. After tremendous amounts of monetary easing pre-elections, I think it's coming back to a good balance now. In terms of Indonesia, I think obviously, some of Australia's exports to China slowing down, but actually we've had a pretty good quarter in Australia. We don't really see -- it's actually a pretty strong balance growth across the region, I would phrase it that way, Bonnie.

OPERATOR: Ali Dibadj, Bernstein.

ALI DIBADJ, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Going back to the comment earlier about marathons versus sprints and applying that again to North America. Thinking about it from a long-term perspective and obviously this quarter, you had pricing up 5%, volume down 2%, and share, it sounds like in sparkling, roughly flat. Is that a comfortable algorithm, a comfortable elasticity that you'd be looking for going forward longer-term, certainly maybe moderating from price, but in that range of elasticity. Or does some of the macro challenges that you're seeing now and maybe even the persistence of the challenges make you think a little bit differently about that? If you could answer that in terms of your margins, the margin answer you gave about North America going forward that would be helpful.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Ali, first let me take the what we would term as sort of a normal outlook. I've said it before, I think in terms of moderate growth in volume, in North America, and also certain amount of positive price mix given the strength of our brands, I think in also, our new occasion channel, based packaging architecture that we've actually re-created with smaller packages, with the mini-cans, with 14 ounces and with the advent, also, of a much wider freestyle distribution of the freestyle dispensing units, I think probably is the right way to think about given that it's going to be a protracted recovery. That's the way we would think about a moderate volume, 1% to 2% and then also some positive price mix on top of that and that's how we would see the business progressing. In terms of share, I think it's important to reflect on the fact that over the last two or three years, we've been getting market share consistently quarter after quarter in the United States.

If you look at consecutively, in terms of value share, since the beginning of 2010, every quarter we've gained share. If you look at the numbers in value share, every quarter in adding on top of the quarter prior. We've been coming through a historically, a very strong share gain environment. I think certainly we see the pricing environment to be logical and one that is rational and that's very important. We just have to ensure that we keep the right balance of both marketing and pricing and also improvements in customer service with Coca-Cola refreshments that are improving every quarter as we move into the year. I think you should also see us continuing that kind of trend in the United States going forward. And Gary if you want to talk about the margin?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, little bit on the margin, a couple of things. In North America, total volume was plus 1% on three points of positive price mix, sparkling was minus 2% on five points of positive price mix. I think probably your question is, is that kind of the elasticities and kind of the relationship we would expect to see going forward? And I tell you a couple of things. One, in a very rational pricing environment, so I think you have to underline that, and it is, the historical elasticity models would've said that you would've seen a lot greater volume decline, greater than 2% if you took 5% pricing.

That's a very good thing, obviously. Going forward in a more normalized market where you're not seeing the huge commodity spikes that we've seen over the last two years, I think a much healthier environment, we would want to see sparkling growing, the low one or two percentage points and more moderate pricing on top of that to still get a 3% or 4% or something revenue growth, but do it in a more balanced fashion between volume and price.

MUHTAR KENT: Just one thing to add to that, Ali, also, it's important to remember that 2011 was probably a special year where we've had to face tremendous increases in changes in commodity costs like we hadn't faced before. In the United States, to the tune of about $550 million and although it hasn't continued, thank goodness, at the same rate, we also are facing some commodity increases, of course, this year, too, not anywhere close to what it was. You have to remember what kind of pricing we had to take to ensure that our business could continue to invest for sustainable future growth in the United States coming off of 2011.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay, so that's great and I hope the better-than-expected elasticity kind of boldens a little bit more pricing which is good. Maybe if I could squeeze in a housekeeping question and it may or may not be housekeeping. But on the balance sheet, and Gary this may be for you, there's always a lot of moving parts and we try to keep track of it. This quarter was another one of large shifts from cash to short-term investments, large increase in marketable securities, what exactly are you doing and what's the impact to the P&L, if any?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, most of it does not have much impact on P&L at all. What you're seeing is do is as we continue to build cash, most of that cash or a large part of that cash is offshore. We are moving into separately managed accounts and so reducing exposure to banks, particularly, so that we are diversifying risk. Then we are also investing some of that, rather than in a savings account if you will, we're putting some of it into government bonds and some AAA rated other investments, all short-term. But it's basically just ensuring that we are diversifying against any concentrations of risk.

ALI DIBADJ: Okay. Thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Alice Longley, Buckingham Research Group.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: My question is about volume in the second half. You've already indicated that price mix should be slowing. Can you give us some indication of what volumes should look like? And particularly, Brazil, the US, and China versus what we've seen in the second quarter?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think you'll appreciate that we can't give a forecast, but I think you've heard us say that we feel confident, despite the volatility, that we would be looking at reiterating our long-term targets of 3% to 4% volume growth. Again, that we manage a great portfolio of 206 markets and we believe that, based on our both marketing programs as well as our strength of our brands and the strength of our system, that we would be able to reiterate our long-term growth target in terms of volume of 3% to 4% for not just the remaining part of the year, but going into the future.

ALICE LONGLEY: We've had some macro slowdown during the course of the second quarter in China and Brazil and we've seen a little slow down in your numbers. Is that going to continue or are we going to stay at these second quarter levels?

MUHTAR KENT: I can't comment on that. But you've seen us in the past, if you take the last three or four years where we've been operating in this economic environment, you've seen us have quarters of 3% or even less or 5% or 6%. When less than three or four things go bad, then you'll see us higher volumes. When some more things all combine in a certain timeframe, you may see less. But over a period of time, longer period of time, we feel that the 3% to 4% is a good number to look at, which is our long-term growth targets. We've never changed them. For a business our size, generating a 7% currency neutral revenue growth across the world, that's, in my book, continuing to crack the calculus of growth.

ALICE LONGLEY: Could I ask a different question which follows up with some that have asked before? This is the operating profit performance in North America. I think you've indicated that it will continue to get better sequentially in North America, and yet you've highlighted an unfavorable mix in terms of channel and I think product as well and price mix, here. Why do we have sequential improvement in operating profits here in North America coming?

MUHTAR KENT: Gary you want to take --

GARY FAYARD: Yes, I'll take that one. I think what you've been seeing us deliver sequential improvements. I don't know that the third quarter versus the second quarter in North America probably it won't be the same sequential improvement you saw from minus nine to zero. But I think you'll see some improvement in the third quarter, although there are some macro and consumer issues in the United States, just because of the condition of this economy and all. Then you will see, I would expect to see a fairly significant improvement, then, in the fourth quarter, particularly as that as an operating business, a finished products business, has significant leverage that will come through in the fourth quarter, particularly with the extra days and the two extra days in the fourth quarter.

ALICE LONGLEY: The fourth quarter is clear, I'm just trying to figure out why we get improvement in the third quarter versus the second.

GARY FAYARD: Just because we continue to work on the business. But I'm not saying it's going to be significant improvement, it's just there should be, our expectation is there should be a little improvement in the third quarter.

MUHTAR KENT: We have said that in the United States, when we started the business that we pointed out that there is going to be sequential improvement. It's also partly on how the commodities are priced into our business and also how marketing spend curve operates in our business and a number of other things. We do expect to see, as we have seen in the second quarter, which we pointed out in the first quarter, we will continue to see sequential improvement as a result of some of those other things that I've also mentioned. As well as the strength of our marketing programs going into the third quarter, particularly related to the Olympics, as well as many other local programs in the United States. We've never had more customer partners pickup and align with us on Olympic activation as in these Olympic Games.

GARY FAYARD: One other thing I'll point out and it's just a tactical, but in timing, in the end of last year, most of our about half of the Fourth of July holiday was in the second quarter, the impact was in the second quarter and then a little bit of the third quarter. The way the calendar fell this year, basically all or most of the Fourth of July holiday in North America will be in the third quarter, which helps the third quarter.

OPERATOR: Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Gary, just a follow-up to some of the earlier questions. If I take the puts and takes in terms of some of the changes to your guidance, where you've got better commodities, you've got better tax rates, and then you've got a bit worse interest income and then a worst FX. Net-net, my math comes to a wash in terms of some of those puts and takes. Do you get the same calculation just in terms of some of the puts and takes to those aspects of the changes that you've talked about?

GARY FAYARD: Yes. If you look at tax, so you've got, depending on where you were, but if you take 0.8 point on tax, that'll give you $0.03 or $0.04 a share. You've got probably down $0.01 or so relative to interest. Commodities let's call it $50 million probably positive, so that's another $0.01 or so. Those are starting to wash, but then FX is going to be worse and particularly worse in the third quarter, significantly worse in the third quarter.

We have previously said mid-single digits headwind, I think my words were exactly the high-end of my previously communicated mid-single digits, so depending on where you were. But the risk aversion that investors around the world have gone to has really driven the dollar, particularly against the emerging market currencies. The others, even on the euro, we're hedged for the year, but it's primarily those emerging market currencies have really been driven hard, hit hard just because of risk aversion.

JUDY HONG: Yes, I was just trying to understand how much the gross margin impact in BIG and international from a transactional perspective, that is captured in your FX guidance?

GARY FAYARD: No. No, we do not include the impact of currency on cost of goods into FX guidance. So, that is on top of it.

JUDY HONG: Okay. That's on top. Okay. Finally, quickly on the US, so that channel in the PAC shift that you're seeing, why do you think that it is only a temporary shift? A little bit more color, just because if you look at the data, take home channel's been declining at a faster pace, you've had immediate consumption channel that's been growing, is that not enough to really offset what's going on within the immediate consumption side that the mix shift that you're seeing? If that's the case, I'm just surprised that the categories like energy drinks continues to really accelerate even into June. What are some of the dynamics that you're seeing as it relates to some of that channel and products shift that you've talked about? Why is that more of a temporary situation in your view?

MUHTAR KENT: This is Muhtar. I think first you've got to take into account the pricing environment. 5%, I mean that is a pricing environment that you won't see coming through all the time. Therefore, I think you need to put it into that perspective and therefore look at it in that regard. Also, as you know, over time, the pricing impact gets evened out and the consumers get back to a normalized sequence. I think you will be seeing some of that happen in the United States. That's one reason.

The second reason is the strength of our programs. The third reason is what Gary mentioned in terms of holiday season falling into the quarter as opposed to not in the quarter et cetera, et cetera. There is a number of reasons why we're talking about it being not a permanent feature, but a feature that will wash out through time. That's why and so I hope that explains most of that.

Thank you, Gary and Jackson. In closing, I think I'd like to, once again, reiterate that we had a strong quarter and delivered quality mid-year performance results. Along with our partners, bottling partners, customer partners, we're successfully navigating through an unpredictable external economic environment with a well-aligned system equipped for long-term sustainable growth. Our 20/20 vision is working. Our system remains resolutely focused on capturing the great opportunities we see ahead in all of the markets. As we partner with our global consumers, customers, communities, we fundamentally believe we're building something lasting and something good, while creating long-term sustainable value for our shareholders. As always, we thank you for your interest and your investment in our Company and thank you for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. Thank you so much for joining. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120731e87h0012x
  


 HD
 Q1  2012 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,664 words
   PD
17 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2012 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call, we are requesting a limit of one question per person.

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to speak with investors; therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department, if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Mr Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP, IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning. Thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com, under the Reports & Financial Information tab in the Investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now, I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson. Good morning, everyone. Let me begin by saying that I'm pleased with our first quarter results. I've never been more excited about the prospects for our brands, as well as our system, or more proud of our people who are driving our consistent and quality performance results. We continue to deliver volume, value, and profit growth, as we enter the third year of our 2020 Vision. We once again saw positive volume growth across every one of our five geographic operating groups. We also continued to gain volume and value share globally in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages and in every sparkling and still beverage category in which we compete. We are winning with our global sparkling beverage portfolio, which was up a solid 4% this past quarter, led by the global growth of brand Coca-Cola, which was up also a healthy 4%. And we are continuing to win with our global still beverage portfolio, which grew a strong 9% this quarter. As we stand a little less than a quarter of the way into our journey towards our 2020 Vision, today's results demonstrate yet again how we are passionately and effectively refreshing a thirsty world with a capable, resilient and advantaged global bottling system.

Before reviewing our quarterly operating results, let's take a few moments to address today's mixed global economic environment. With respect to Europe, we are observing ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty as 2012 unfolds. Austerity measures implemented across the region are weighing on consumer confidence, which recently reached its lowest level since the first quarter of 2009. Despite the challenges in Europe, we are executing on all fronts to drive performance and share gains. So, while we expect the macroeconomic conditions will remain difficult in Europe throughout 2012, we remain cautiously encouraged by our performance in this market. Turning to the United States. Despite its struggle with a sustained period of relative high unemployment, we are pleased to see some early signs of a slowly improving macroeconomic environment. We remain firmly committed to building strong brands and creating value in the United States to capture more than our fair share of the industry's profitable growth.

Finally, let me touch on recent macroeconomic developments across a couple of key BRIC markets. In China, we've all seen economists lower their 2012 GDP growth rate forecast. While we agree that there has been some moderate slowdown in China, we also believe that this is a natural progression and that it is a positive for the long-term sustainable growth of the country. As we move through 2012, we anticipate that our business in China may not be immune to this cooling economy; therefore, we may also see our volume results in China moderate to some extent. Having said that, we are confident that China will continue to serve as a double-digit growth market for our business over the long-term.

As for Brazil, which underwent a cooling down period of its own in 2011, there are now signs of improving consumer sentiment. We expect this trend to hold, as we move through the balance of 2012 with our business in Brazil continuing to gain market share. In summary, we always find ourselves operating in a fast, evolving global environment, one with some economies slowing, other economies stabilizing, while sustaining high unemployment and still others, improving and well on their way to recovery. In all cases, we remain intently focused on realizing our 2020 Vision and we will keep investing through these challenging times to drive long-term advantaged and sustainable growth. For if we have learned anything these past few years, it is that during times of ongoing uncertainty, consumers are even thirstier for brands that inspire real moments of optimism and happiness.

Turning now to our total Company performance results. Our volume grew 5% in the quarter, ahead of our long-term target and fueled by organic volume growth in all five geographic operating groups. As for our financial results, we grew comparable currency neutral net revenue by 7% and we grew comparable currency neutral operating income by 8%, once you adjust for the cycling of lower commodity costs in the prior period. As such, we remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year 2012 operating income results, in line with our long-term targets. Now, let's review our performance results across our global markets in more detail, beginning with North America, our flagship market. Our North America business was up 2%, delivering an eighth consecutive quarter of growth. Importantly, our North America system once again led the industry, capturing volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.

Our sparkling beverages in North America were up 1% in the quarter with brand Coca-Cola also positive in the quarter, while further improving its brand health scores. The momentum behind both Coke Zero, as well as Fanta, continued with these brands up 9% and 4% respectively this quarter, and we also earned higher pricing in North America, which enabled us to generate a positive 3% price mix for both bottled can sparkling beverages, as well as our total North America beverage business. Our still beverages in North America were up 6% in the quarter, gaining both volume and value share, while delivering industry-leading results across many categories. In sports drinks, Powerade grew double-digits yet again this quarter, while once again capturing volume and value share.

Our glaceau trademark grew 9%, also capturing volume and value share led by another quarter of double-digit growth for both smartwater and vitaminwater zero. Our key performance, again, accelerated this quarter, up double-digits, led by Gold Peak, which grew double-digits for the 20th consecutive quarter. And in water, DASANI also expanded double-digits this quarter with the national rollout of our innovative plant bottle that is positively impacting purchase intent and brand equity. As we have said many times before, we believe North America is a growth market for our business. Despite a challenging competitive and macroeconomic backdrop, our results, both validate this belief and provide us with every reason to remain optimistic about the long-term outlook for America.

Now, let me turn to our Pacific group, which grew 8% in the quarter, including 6% growth for brand Coca-Cola. In China, the overall beverage industry was not immune from the impact of the economic slowdown we mentioned earlier, as well as the unseasonably cold weather that occurred during this quarter's Chinese New Year celebration. Despite this, our business in China delivered a solid 9% growth this quarter, while cycling a strong first quarter last year. Importantly, our right-sizing efforts are generating strong incremental transactions, in line with our expectations. Sparkling beverage transactions were up double-digits this past quarter, driven by the expansion of our 300ml package. This helped us capture both volume and value share in the sparkling beverage category this quarter.

Just a few weeks ago, I was pleased and honored to inaugurate our 42nd bottling plant in China in Yingkou. This new plant is now our largest production facility in China, with an expected annual production capacity of more than 5 billion servings of sparkling and still beverages. This new lead certified plant is part of our system's three-year, $4 billion China investment plan and reaffirms our strong commitment to China. Japan's first quarter results were up 3%, building on the great work done by our system to restore and strengthen our business during a very challenging 2011. Our Japan business gained both volume and value share in the nonalcoholic beverages this quarter. This growth in Japan was broad-based, with numerous sparkling and still beverages delivering positive results, including brand Coca-Cola up 2%, Fanta up 6%, glaceau water up 4% and Georgia Coffee up 3%.

Additionally, our Japan business grew across all channels, including convenience stores and vending. Also during the quarter, our Japan business unit was recognized with our Company's highest honor, the 2011 Woodruff Cup based on the business unit's achievement of key performance metrics as set forth in our 2020 Vision. As such, we remain confident that our system in Japan is well aligned and in a strong position to deliver full-year low single-digit growth in 2012. I also want to call out two other markets within this diverse and dynamic geographic region of the world. First, our business in the Philippines is growing again, up mid single-digits this past quarter, reflecting how the hard work put in by our bottling investment group keeps yielding strong results.

While we believe there is still much opportunity left to be captured in the Philippines, we also believe that our business there is on the right track and that we are successfully building the capabilities needed to deliver consistent and sustainable growth. Second, our business in Thailand grew over 20% in the first quarter and brand Coca-Cola was up over 30%, as we build momentum in this market, while investing for the future. We have plans in place to expand our beverage production capabilities in this fast-growing market, consistent with our system's culture of targeted investment that underpins our 2020 Vision.

Moving now to Latin America. Our volume grew 5% for the quarter, including 4% growth for brand Coca-Cola. In the process, we gained additional share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, as well as in both sparkling and still beverages in Latin America this quarter. Latin America's solid first quarter results were driven by our consistent growth in Mexico, improved results in Brazil, and high single-digit growth in both our Latin center and South Latin regions. In Mexico, we delivered 3% growth, cycling 14% from last year. We captured additional nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share in Mexico. This is a further testament to our team's ability to execute clear occasion-based channel strategies across all beverage categories in our highest per capita market.

As for Brazil, we reiterated many times last year that as this country's economy improved, so would our results. This quarter's 4% volume growth in Brazil validates this belief. Importantly, our continued volume and value share gains in Brazil are a testament to our sustained, long-term growth strategies, which never wavered during last year's economic slowdown. Looking ahead, we expect our 2012 growth results in Brazil to remain steady, as low to mid single-digits, as the Brazilian economy recovers. Our commitment to the future of Brazil has never been stronger, as shown by our system's recent announcement to accelerate our investments in Brazil to nearly $8 billion through 2016.

Our Eurasia and Africa business grew a strong 9% in the quarter, including solid 9% growth for brand Coca-Cola. Our overall group results were led by robust growth across the entire region, including growth in India, Russia, South Africa, the Middle East and North Africa. Overall performance was once again led by India, which grew 20% in the quarter, delivering balanced growth across all categories. I was particularly encouraged by brand Coca-Cola's 27% growth in India this past quarter. Our still beverages in India were up over 20% in the quarter, led by Maaza up over 30%.

Russia was up 3% this quarter, cycling last year's strong 27% growth. Our business in Russia continues to be led by the strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola, which once again delivered double-digit growth. Additionally, our Dobry juice brand delivered 9% growth and as a result our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry, gaining nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume and value share. Finally, we saw positive volume across growth in every other business unit in our Eurasia and Africa group, including double-digit growth in South Africa, as well as in the Middle East and North Africa region. We are excited about the future opportunities for our business in this dynamic, growing part of the world.

Moving now to Europe, volume was up 1%, gaining share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. Notably, this is Europe's seventh consecutive quarter of positive growth. And this growth was led by Germany, which was up 3% for the quarter, capturing once again share in the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages, as well as in both sparkling and still beverage categories. Brand Coca-Cola was up 4% this quarter in Germany, benefiting from both our effective marketing campaigns and our consumer recruitment initiatives. In total, this marks Germany's fifth consecutive quarter of positive growth. This consistency validates how our ongoing bottling restructuring efforts have enhanced our ability to create value during difficult economic times.

Another region where our business is showing signs of moderate improvement despite challenging economic conditions is Central and Southern Europe. Most markets in this region posted positive growth, including Italy, which was up 4% for the quarter. Another very important geography where we achieved positive results is Spain, up 6% for the quarter. We are closely monitoring our business in both of these markets, in light of recently announced austerity measures. Importantly, we believe we have the right brands, the right strategies and the right capabilities in place to continue delivering long-term sustainable growth in Europe.

As we look ahead to this summer, both in Europe, as well as across the world, we are very excited about the unique opportunity to grow the value of our brands even further through our investments in the 2012 London Summer Olympic Games. For context, during the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics, we activated 36 markets across the globe. For this year's Summer Olympics, we plan to activate almost 100 markets, leveraging content, experiences and conversations generated through our global program. This fully integrated 2012 global Olympic marketing program will be all about recruiting teams by tapping into emotional passion points like sports and music. An early success of this program is the over 160,000 YouTube views of Mark Ronson's behind the scenes footage, as he developed our new Olympics theme song.

These views were generated without any active promotions on our part and once again, are a clear example of how we are successfully engaging consumers with innovative, compelling, and sharable social media content. As we work to engage with our consumers, we're also committed to building a better tomorrow. Last month, we released our 2012 Global Water Stewardship and Replenishment Report, detailing our ongoing work to reduce, recycle and replenish the water we use around the world. To date, our Company has launched 386 Community Water Partnership projects in 94 countries. These projects have improved water access for 1.6 million people, including more than 0.25 million women and children in Africa.

In 2011 alone, our Community Water Partnership projects replenished 35% of the water used in our finished product beverages. These projects also benefited the communities we served, by providing sustainable agriculture training and resources to more than 12,000 farmers and by supporting the reforestation of over 30,000 hectares. As we build a better tomorrow, our efforts and performance are being recognized. This past quarter, we were humbly honored to receive several acknowledgments. Firstly, Fortune Magazine's survey of the most admired companies listed us at Number four in their 2012 rankings, up from Number six in 2011, and up 20 spots from where we ranked just five years ago. In these same rankings, Fortune Magazine's survey once again rated us as the Number one most admired beverage company in the world.

Secondly, Forbes also announced just two weeks ago that our Company had risen to Number seven on that publication's list of America's most reputable companies, based on a consumer survey, by Reputation Institute. This ranking is up from Number 25 in 2011. We also saw our standing improve within the Harris Interactive Reputation Study, an annual survey that measures the corporate reputations of the 60 most visible companies in the US. In their latest survey, our Company climbed to Number three, up from 15 the previous year. While all of us at The Coca-Cola Company are proud of these achievements, we understand that they only represent a snapshot of where we are today rather than where we aspire to be tomorrow.

As I have stated many times before, the complexity and the challenge of today's mixed global economy also brings real opportunities and exciting growth prospects. What was true on day one of our 2020 Vision is still true today. Our system has only just begun to achieve its potential. We have a clear road map for growth, a productivity and reinvestment program that is driving efficiencies and a global bottling system that is well aligned and poised for execution. This strong alignment has not only enabled us to effectively navigate the volatility of these past several years, it has also put us in a position of real strength. That is why we are confident that our Coca-Cola system will continue to passionately refresh a thirsty world and create value for all of our consumers, customers and shareholders. With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. Good morning, everyone. We delivered strong results this quarter, underscoring once again that our global system is well positioned to execute our strategic plans and alignment with our 2020 Vision. We reported comparable earnings per share of $0.89 this quarter, up 3% versus the prior year. As Muhtar shared earlier, our earnings growth was driven by broad-based volume growth across all of our five operating groups. In fact, we had volume growth across nearly all of our business units within our global operations this quarter. Comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 5% this quarter. On a comparable basis, the impact of currency on this quarter's operating income results was a 2% headwind, in line with outlook we provided during our last earnings call in February.

In addition, and also as for the outlook we provided through this quarter, we cycled lower commodity costs in the first quarter of 2011. Adjusting for the 3% impact relating to the cycling of these lower commodity costs, our comparable currency-neutral operating income was up 8% in the first quarter of 2012. When you also consider that this quarter had one less selling day than the first quarter of 2011, we are very pleased with this operating income result. Comparable currency-neutral net revenue grew 7% this quarter, including a 3% increase in concentrate sales and 3% positive price mix. The currency impact on this quarter's comparable net revenue result was a 1% headwind. This quarter's 3% consolidated price mix is particularly encouraging, especially when considering today's challenging macroeconomic conditions.

Looking ahead, we still expect our full-year 2012 consolidated price mix results to come in between 1% and 2%, in line with our long-term target range. This quarter's comparable gross margin was in line with our full-year 2011 gross margin, consistent with outlook we provided earlier this quarter. As a reminder, we expect our full-year 2012 consolidated comparable gross margin to remain in line with full-year 2011. Our comparable currency-neutral SG&A expenses were up 4% in the quarter, as we sustained our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands. As for operating expense leverage, it came in positive this quarter.

For 2012, we still expect to capture low single-digit operating expense leverage as we further invest in strategic brand building initiatives around the world and effectively manage our operating expenses. Our net interest income came in at $27 million this quarter, ahead of our initial forecast, primarily due to a benefit related to our interest rate swaps. As such, and based on our current best estimates of interest rates in our international operations, we now expect our full-year 2012 net interest income to come in at the higher end of the $20 million to $40 million range we provided in our last earnings call. In addition, we expect our net interest to come in close to even in the second quarter. We'll continue to update you on net interest outlook on a quarterly basis.

Our underlying effective tax rate currently stands at 24.8% within the 24% to 25% range we communicated during our last earnings call. As for our cash flow from operations, this increased 13% year to date. Please note that this cash flow result is net of the approximately $130 million in incremental contributions made to our pension plans this quarter when compared to the contributions we made to our pension plans in the first quarter of last year. With regard to our share repurchase program, our net share repurchases during the quarter totaled nearly $850 million, including accruals for stock options and treasury shares that did not settle prior to the close of the quarter. This places us well on track to achieve the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range for full-year 2012, as we communicated during our last earnings call.

Now, let me take a moment to remind you of our full-year outlook on currencies and commodities, which we provided in our last earnings call. With regard to commodities. In our last call, we said that we expected the full-year 2012 incremental impact of the Big Four Commodity costs on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million. And just a reminder, the Big Four Commodities are aluminum, sweetener, juice and PET. While our commodity cost outlook remains unchanged, if current trends hold, we may see this outlook slowly improve in the coming months. We'll update you on any changes to our outlook during our next earnings call.

As for currencies, based on our hedge positions, current spot rates and the cycling of our prior-year rates, we continue to expect currencies to have a mid single-digit negative impact on operating income for the full-year. Furthermore, we expect to see this impact come in at the high end of this mid single-digit range in the second quarter. Let me highlight one additional item for those that model our business. In light of the recent change to our global tea joint venture with Nestle -- as a reminder, earlier this year we announced our agreement with Nestle to refocus the geographic scope of this joint venture primarily to Europe and Canada, while phasing out the joint venture in most other territories by the end of 2012. Accordingly, we have eliminated the joint venture volume from our reported results for both 2011 and 2012, in those territories where the joint venture is being phased out. Please note that this change did not impact the Company's reported volume results this quarter on a consolidated level or for any individual operating group.

Finally, with regard to our new productivity and reinvestment program, we reconfirm our expectations to capture total incremental annualized savings of $550 million to $650 million, phased over a four-year period starting in 2012 through the end of 2015. As noted in our last call, these funds will serve to enhance our ongoing system-wide brand building initiatives, as we reinvest in our business to drive long-term profitable growth. We're still in the initial stages of defining the total one-time costs associated with the capture of these incremental annualized savings and will provide an update on these costs during our next earnings call.

In summary, as we begin the third year of our 2020 Vision, we are greatly encouraged by our business, achieving yet another solid quarter of quality volume, value and profit results. Our system remains healthy and financially strong. We're generating cash, investing in our world class brands and executing our consistent growth strategies from a position of real strength. Importantly, we continue to pay a healthy dividend. Our seasoned leadership team and highly capable global bottling partners are taking the right actions and executing the right strategies to successfully realize our 2020 Vision. So while we're still navigating through an ongoing mixed global economic recovery, we remain confident in our ability to deliver full-year results, in line with our long-term growth targets. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Bryan Spillane, Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Just a question -- you had a very strong first quarter. I think what was really encouraging was how broad-based your volume growth was and especially seeing markets like Japan, North America, Germany, Philippines, all growing simultaneously. Think about the balance of the year. Muhtar, could you talk a little bit about how you view that performance, carrying out through the balance of the year, maybe some of the factors that you've got in place or some of the activity you have in place to continue to drive that through the balance of the year. Then secondarily, maybe, Gary, if you could just talk about if it's a -- given your potentially better view on costs balance of the year and the potential for some volume performance, continuing to be doing well this year, just better drop-through of profitability I guess as we move through the year, if we can just talk a little bit about that as well.

MUHTAR KENT: Bryan, good morning, thanks. This is Muhtar. I think what I would like to just -- the message I would like to get across is that we leave behind the first quarter of 2012 with confidence and with momentum in our business. I think it is broad-based growth, as you mentioned. In fact, the top 10 countries in our business generated about 65%, a little over 65% of the total incremental growth cases, organic unit case growth in the quarter. That is more broad-based than in the past. That's a good sign. I think we've always said that there's tremendous -- everywhere I go, I see tremendous opportunity for our brands, our system is strong, our system -- this is the result of investments that our system continues to make every quarter. Also, generating revenue and we're able to crack this calculus for growth. Everywhere we go in this difficult macroeconomic environment, it's important to note that the Coca-Cola system is one of the most important net contributors to the economy.

Globally, we're one of the top 10 private employers, non-governmental employers, and we create -- based on our Vision, we will create an additional 120,000 new jobs in the next 10 years. More and more, governments are recognizing that unemployment is the number 1, number 2, number 3 priority. I think with that, with our system, we're earning our right every day, in every market. That's important. As I -- obviously, the macroeconomic conditions around the world is challenged. The recovery is slow. Unemployment remains high and as I believe will remain high, as we go through this year. But the premise, Bryan, on which we've built our 2020 Vision, holds true today. What we said is, no matter how you slice and dice it, there will be about 1 billion new people coming into the middle class. We'll have about 800 million new urbanized consumers in the decade, this decade that we're talking about, 2010 to 2020.

Now, the quarter we just left behind, about 22 million new urbanized consumers and about 22 million to 25 million new middle class have been created in the world and we were there to serve their needs and refresh them. So, yes, challenged environment. Yes, slow recovery. Yes, some slowing down in emerging markets. But when we talk about slowing down, you go down from a 9% to an 8.5% or 8.2%, I think there is still tremendous amount of growth and middle class creation around the world, whether you take Africa, Latin America, Asia and we're there. And in the Western markets, we've always said our balance, our Vision calls for balanced growth, balanced in geographies, balanced in portfolio and once again, we were able to validate that is something we are able to execute with our -- passionately with our bottling partners. So I'll now pass it over to Gary to answer the second part of your question.

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Bryan. I guess I would say a couple of things. As we look, it is still a challenged economic environment across the world. We have seen -- if you think back actually first quarter of 2010, things looked like economically they were getting better and then they didn't. First quarter of 2011, looked like things were getting better and then they didn't. Then we've seen the significant volatility around commodities and currencies across the world over the last several years as well. So I think -- I guess where we are is trying to be somewhat conservative and trying to say we're 3 quarters -- or 3 months into the year, one quarter into the year. The smallest quarter, in fact. I think we need to continue to go through the year. Are things looking better? Yes. It looks like interest income's going to be a little bit better. Looks like if things hold, commodities will probably be better. So, things are actually looking pretty good. But I think at this point, our view was, we hold with where we are. We get through another quarter to see how the year is going. Is the economic recovery that we're starting to slowly see in the US going to continue or not? So that's where we are. We're being -- trying to be conservative and recognize that we are in this as a marathon and not as a sprint. This is about long-term value creation.

MUHTAR KENT: Just one point I would add to that too, Bryan, is that 4 years ago, we made some bets in terms of our strategy, our 2020 Vision and I think those are now positioning us to win. I'd say that in this volatile world environment, I think we are definitely a great hedge and a balanced hedge in what's happening in the world.

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Thank you for that. Just Gary, just as a follow-up, if there's upside -- or Gary and Muhtar, if there's upside, more inclined to invest some of that back, particularly given the momentum you have in some of these markets? Is there more room to invest if there's more funds generated?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, I'm happy to say that we are investing. If you look at our marketing spend and if you look at how we're controlling all OpEx in the right way and then spending on our brands and you'll see some of those numbers in the first quarter, too, coming to life. That's basically how we've always managed this business. Investing in our brands, investing for the long-term, ensuring that our brands remain healthy and get healthier all the time, which they are and that generates, again, a great system alignment, a great investment picture from the total cash that we generate with our bottling partners. I've said it before. The results that you see this quarter, this past quarter, are not coming from the investments we made in this quarter. They are coming from the investments that we made 4, 5, 6, 7 quarters ago. The same is going to be true from 4 quarters or 5 quarters from now based on investments we're making today.

OPERATOR: Caroline Levy, CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA: Muhtar, last time we met, you said that you were headed off to Asia and you did share quite a bit of your enthusiasm with us already. But can you talk a little more in depth about the prospects for Japan, China and what the other real big drivers of growth will be going forward? And how owning your bottlers in some key markets within China and Japan is impacting the business?

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Caroline. Yes, I just spent a good bit of time in Asia a couple of weeks ago. I think you've seen the Pacific group's volume growth up 8%, which was broad-based in the quarter with the numbers that we've shared with you for places like, not just China and Japan up 9% and 3% respectively, but also for Thailand and the Philippines and so forth. I think importantly, again, very encouraged that brand Coca-Cola is up 6% in that massive geography and reported net revenue for the quarter, up 12% and good price mix across. So it's important really to be able to ensure that when you have -- when we talk about sustainable growth, we mean growth not just in volume, not just in a certain category, but broad-based growth and also growth in the revenue line that can be matched or better than the volume line. I think we're seeing that and yes, no question, everyone you talk to, whether it's the shop owner in any particular part of China or whether it's the government or whether it's some national government, there is a little cooling down. I think that's healthy. I think that's healthy for the real estate market in China. That's healthy for the banking industry in China. That's healthy for the long-term sustainable growth of the economy in China, which I have no doubt is going to continue.

So we see China as a fantastic opportunity. As I said, we've just opened our largest to date facility in China, 42nd and the largest of them all and lead certified on top of it. That's, again, one sign of our commitment. Many more such factories to come in our $4 billion announced investment program for China. So, I see China certainly playing an important role for our 2020 Vision. And particularly pleased about Japan, where I met with all our bottling partners in Tokyo and presented their Woodruff Cup Awards to each one of our bottling partners. Again, category by category, we see very good improvement in our business in Japan. So the terrible tragedy of 2011 allowed us to galvanize our system and strengthen our system and continue to grow our system and importantly, every channel, important channel, like convenience, like vending, is now back to growth in Japan and that's a very important thing for our business and categories, whether it's coffee with Georgia or sparkling or tea, again, generating growth.

So prospects I think overall, we've always said the picture of success in Japan is low single-digit growth and I believe that we're poised well to achieve that target for Japan. Then I went to Thailand, where we're having, as I said, very good growth prospects and share gains, tremendous share gains in that important market with a very healthy consumption habit for sparkling beverages. I see -- whether it's other markets like Vietnam or Indonesia or West Asia, I see great prospects for our growth. I'll soon be also heading towards West Asia in a couple of months. Again, you heard the results that we've been able to post this past quarter in India, continue to have very healthy brand metrics for Coca-Cola and as well as our still brands there in that incredible elite prospective geography. So I think Asia overall, a little cooling, healthy and a great long-term prospects for both our business, as well as I think leading the world out of some of the current global macro issues.

OPERATOR: Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Muhtar, a couple of questions with, or Gary on North America. One, just in terms of the underlying industry performance and your performance in North America, obviously the macro's been getting a little bit better, but just in Q1, do you think that there was any benefit from a weather perspective? If you've seen a big shift from take-home into immediate consumption. Then talking about your performance in the context of the competitive backdrop, where obviously Pepsi has talked about spending more money, so what impact are you seeing from a competitive perspective in North America? Then, Gary, just on the profitability side in North America, if you can just walk us through the puts and takes in Q1 as it relates to the cycling of the commodities. For the balance of the year, how should we think about the phasing of commodities and the margins in North America as we go forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Judy, just let me take the first part of the question. I think we continue to see validation -- a little more validation of what I indicated also in the previous call. There are some healthier signs from the US consumer right now than it was 12 months ago, this time. In terms of more travel, more mobility, more bookings and mobility is an important factor for our business, for consumer goods. Also, I think eating out, a little healthier numbers in terms of that what we are seeing compared to, say, 12 to 16 months ago. Having said that -- and I do believe that trend is likely to continue, providing we can keep -- have prices at the pump for gasoline about where they stay now. So I premise that with that caveat. I think for -- we have always said that United States is a growth business. Despite the current macroeconomic challenges, we've been posting growth quarter after quarter.

I'm very pleased that this past quarter also that sparkling beverages was positive. Brand Coca-Cola was positive. We've started putting together the framework for our growth in North America way before the acquisition of the [CC's] business in North America. I want to reiterate that once again. The brand price packed channel architecture, getting our brands to a healthier position than they were previously, getting the right package to be sold at the right outlet and the right channel at the right price. All of that architecture we started working on 3 to 4 years ago. And I think we are seeing some results out of all of that work. As I said, we believe that the positive sentiment that we see compared to a year ago of the US consumer, slightly positive sentiment would probably continue is what I would estimate, providing other conditions hold, particularly the price of gasoline. Gary?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Judy, I would say just a couple things. The first, I just want to congratulate our colleagues in North America, because I think if you -- as you think about it and think about this quarter was sparkling plus 1%, brand Coca-Cola positive growth in the quarter and those are things that not that long ago, I think everyone listening to this call would have said is impossible to do. It's really working. Everything that Muhtar is talking about is actually working. Our brand score is getting better, because of the things we have been doing over the last few years. But then if you look at -- all right, great, Gary, got that, but let's talk about the financial results. You're showing that on a comparable basis, operating income is down 9% quarter on quarter. So how do you talk about that?

Well, on that one, that is the issue that I alerted, I think all of you to earlier this quarter. The way the commodities hit last year, that $800 million of commodity pressure that we had last year, it all was in quarters 2, 3 and 4. Basically none of it in the numbers in Q1 in North America. So when you adjust for that, for just commodities, that minus 9% actually gets to only slightly negative. Then you have to recognize that there was a one less day. You adjust for that and actually North America suddenly flips into it was actually positive. You take that, then you look at remainder of year and you recognize that we've gotten the pricing so that the commodities aren't going to be as big of an issue going forward remainder of year and all the other things we've been doing, we would expect to see North America in very good, positive territory, remainder of year. Things are going -- knock on wood, exactly the way we planned for them to at this point.

MUHTAR KENT: Just one last quick add-on to that, Judy. Importantly to note, the strategic focus in North America remains consistent on continuing to build strong brands, creating value with our customers and building our systems, continuing to build our system capability. So the strategic focus remains in place. Secondly, in this past quarter, I would note also that [IC] growth was ahead of total volume growth in North America. That also helped generate a good price mix for our total business. Also, of course, I just want to make sure I mention the share gains that are continuing across the board in North America for us.

JUDY HONG: Great. Gary, just -- so if I think about that 3%, the cycling of the lower commodity impact on your operating profit, that's about $75 million. When you think about -- you're saying North America would have been slightly down ex the cycling, so the impact on North America from that would have been about $50 million and the rest would be in BIG?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, the rest would have been in BIG.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and the phasing of the $400 million of commodity this year is much more evenly spread out.

GARY FAYARD: Correct.

JUDY HONG: I guess we'll see, depending on the commodity costs as we go forward. But it's much more evenly spread out, so we should start to see really the much more benign impact starting in Q2.

GARY FAYARD: Very well put. That's exactly right, exactly right.

JUDY HONG: Okay.

GARY FAYARD: Then as I mentioned to Bryan's question earlier, if then commodities hold with where they are today, that actually $350 million to $450 million, so call it $400 million, actually could be coming down to the lower end and becoming more favorable versus what we've been talking about.

OPERATOR: Bonnie Herzog, Wells Fargo.

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: I wanted to go back to a question on China. I was actually hoping you could talk about the competitive landscape, given Pepsi's new strategic alliance with Tingyi and how that may impact your business and strategy. I guess thinking about it, the alliance of the 2 strong competitors, wouldn't this accelerate the pace that you execute your game plan? Also, could you give us some color on how you will allocate the $4 billion investment among your different initiatives there? For instance, will you spend more on infrastructure than brand building in the next few years?

MUHTAR KENT: Okay, Bonnie. I think we have a strategy for China. That strategy is not changing with what's happening across the industry. I want to reiterate that. That strategy is valid and still in place and obviously, it will evolve as we introduce a wider variety of packages to promote affordability, enhance the consumer experience with our brands, all with a focus to drive incremental increased transactions and profitable growth and to continue building brand equity with consumers. I think this is critical for us and that you will see us continue to do that. I believe that -- we're confident in our ability to deliver double-digit growth over the long-term. I think continuing introduction of a wider variety of packages to promote affordability and I think immediate consumption growth. So we will continue driving all of those priorities. As far as the investments are concerned, $4 billion, that I would say probably it's fair that you could allocate about 50% into infrastructure and 50% into the brand building area. That's probably a good split. If you've looked at the past 3 years, that's probably where it ended up.

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Gary, just wanted to follow up on Judy's question a little bit, which was -- and I apologize if I missed it. If we strip out the commodity stuff, what have you, the revenue growth was still great, but the operating profit I think was still down. So is that a profit mix issue? Is that simply an investment issue? Then Muhtar, I just was wondering if you could clarify something, because in your comments, you guys hadn't stated explicitly that you would gain share in sparkling, but you just mentioned that you had share gains across the board. So is that a safe assumption, then, that you guys did in fact have share gains in North America in sparkling? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John. Let me start. Well, in fact, I'll go ahead and answer that last part first. We did have share gains pretty much across the board, across the world and the US. So we did have share gains in sparkling. On the commodity issue relative to North America and if I don't exactly answer the question, come back and tell me. But basically, if you strip out the commodity impact, North America's OI for the quarter, instead of being down 9%, would have been down 1%, is exactly what it would have been. Then if you add in an extra day, it would have been positive. So what you're seeing is that one day, actually one less day, is having a huge impact on the P&L, because you've got basically all of the costs going through for the full quarter, with a day less sales, is basically what's happening, which is why when you go to Q2 and 3, actually it becomes much more normalized and the commodities are not an issue at all. In fact, it reverses a little bit because you had more of that hitting in Q2 and 3 last year, with none of it hitting in Q1 last year. So it's a cycling thing. But that's why when you adjust for all of that, our view is -- and what we had planned and what we saw all along, is that North America actually improves significantly after Q1 into the remainder of the year. That's exactly what we're seeing today.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So if we look at that impact, I know you have 2 extra selling days in Q4, right?

GARY FAYARD: Right, that's right.

JOHN FAUCHER: So, if we map out the cadence over the course of the year, it seems like what we probably should see -- and you factor in your FX guidance, is it -- should we be looking at the numbers, a little more back end loaded, a little more Q4 weighted, with a little bit tougher Q2 when you put all of this stuff together? Is that the right cadence, then?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, it is. It is. Now, the CFO's going to come out in me, okay? Because when my own guys and I get a rolling estimate here and when I see that, I say -- oh, you've given me a hockey stick. So you try to manage against that as you're managing the business appropriately. But the cadence of the business this year actually is exactly as you just said. That's exactly right. It is more back end loaded, because of how the commodities hit and went through the P&L last year and the one day less in the first quarter, 2 extra days in the fourth quarter. Some of the reason -- I have to hedge a little bit on this, is because there was one less day, you had a little bit of an Easter shift to help probably the first quarter slightly, but you really can't measure it. So I would say -- basically what you're saying is exactly right.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, great.

MUHTAR KENT: Just to add, on the North America front, John, I think it's important to note that we -- North America, I want to reiterate, had a great quarter in terms of both volume, revenue, overall NARTD share gains. Also we see importantly a rational pricing environment in North America, the 3% price in the mix gain is very important. I think those things should really give indication of health of the business as we move into the second and third quarters, important second and third quarters of the year. Therefore, I am pleased with the results in North America. Again, I think Gary explained the anomaly of comparability there in terms of the operating income number.

OPERATOR: Bill Schmitz, Deutsche Bank.

BILL SCHMITZ, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Can you just talk about the global competitive environment relative to what you thought it was going to be heading into the year? I know you discussed North America a little bit. Can you broaden that globally? Then I have a follow-up.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, well, it's hand-to-hand combat out there every single day. And it's -- everywhere I go, everywhere our operators go, everywhere our leadership goes, we see opportunity. We see opportunity for our brands that are stronger. We earn our price every day. We're generating revenue growth. We're a net contributor to the economies and our brands are healthy and our IC business is growing ahead of our total business and that's a good thing for the world. Our IC business globally grew 6% in the world compared to 5% global volume growth. By the way, this volume growth that we've had in the first quarter is one of the highest organic volume growths we've had in the last, say, 8 to 10 quarters that I look back, because this is all pure organic growth and it is strong and there's momentum. I think, as I said, the competitive environment, I think out in the world is -- obviously, consumers are reticent to go out, to spend money.

The environment is not healthy, particularly in Europe in terms of consumer sentiment. But our business is able to continue to invest and also ensure that we generate value for our customers in Europe in this case, large customers, large format, small format and one of the really important metrics that we always follow is immediate consumption, which is a healthier mix, is growing ahead of our total business. Once again, that is a testament to the strength of our system, because you can always -- it's much easier to go and gain distribution in the future consumption channel, but in order to ensure that you supply and work and partner with every single small format store, takes a very strong and very different kind of system, which is the one we have.

BILL SCHMITZ: Great, then maybe you can get just a little more granular relative to what you expected headed into the year. Because it seems like maybe in Europe the promotional and pricing environment's maybe a little bit worse. Then we obviously saw Pepsi show their cards and perhaps the competitive environment in North America is a little better. Is that fair?

MUHTAR KENT: I think the environment in Europe is not any better for sure. But look at some of the numbers that I shared with you earlier, up 6% in Spain, up 4% in Italy, Germany continues to grow. Southeast Europe, beginning to show signs. I've said before, Europe is a tale of 2, 3 cities at least. You've got Eastern Europe beginning to come out, led by Russia. You've got Southern Europe beginning to stabilize, and Central and Northern Europe is still -- led by Germany, is I think the sentiment is slightly improving. So overall, the Southern Europe still remains an importantly challenged area. But our business system is very strong in Southern Europe and we are benefiting from that. In the US, as I said, consumer sentiment in terms of the mobility, in terms of travel bookings, in terms of travel on the highways, in terms of eating out, is better than it was 12 to 16 months ago.

GARY FAYARD: This is Gary. I want to come back. John Faucher, on your question, I want to correct one thing. In North America's share, I went back and looked at the numbers, as we were looking at this. We gained value and volume share in total nonalcoholic beverages. We gained significant volume and value share in still. In sparkling, it was a slight loss of share and the reason I said that we actually gained share is -- internally, as I was thinking about it, I was actually taking some pipeline filling out. That's not the way you should look at it. So there was a slight loss of share.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you, Gary and Jackson. In closing, this quarter's results provide yet another proof point that our Company and our system are on track to deliver our 2020 Vision. The tremendous opportunity we see ahead for our Company in all of our markets remain intact. As always, we thank you for your interest and investment in our Company. There is no greater responsibility than earning and maintaining your trust and your confidence. You can rest assured that our entire leadership team is working diligently to protect and grow the value of your investment in our Company. Thank you for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you so much for joining. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120501e84h001md
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 The CocaCola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,789 words
   PD
7 February 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and, therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Investor Relations Officer. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP AND DIRECTOR OF IR, COCA-COLA CO: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Before we begin though, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecocacolacompany.com under the "Reports and Financial Information" tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning, and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now I will turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, COCA-COLA CO: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. Today I am pleased to share the Coca-Cola Company continues to operate from a position of real strength. Our brands continue to get stronger, our strategies continue to be sound, and our execution continues to be focused and effective. All of this continues to drive sustainable growth and continues to bring us closer to achieving our 2020 Vision, one day, one week, one month and one quarter at a time. Thanks to the extraordinary determination and resolve of our 146,000 Company associates around the world we delivered volume and revenue growth this quarter in every one of our five geographic operating groups.

And we achieved financial results for both the quarter and the full year in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets, making this the seventh consecutive quarter we have either met or exceeded our long-term growth targets. Our global sparkling beverage portfolio kept growing, up 2% for the quarter and a solid 4% for the full year. Our global still beverage portfolio is also performing well, up 6% for the quarter and a strong 8% for the full year.

And we gained global volume and value share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages while also gaining global share in both sparkling and still beverage categories. We achieved these results for both the quarter and the full year against the backdrop of a volatile global economic landscape. Even as we believe that the unease in the global markets will continue in the near term, the breadth of our global footprint and the strength of our brands create a business that was built for times like these, resilient and resolute to grow. Our solid performance in 2011 reflects the consistent investments we have made over time to strengthen the health of our brands, starting with brand Coca-Cola, the very oxygen of our business, up 3% in both the quarter and the full year.

In fact, brand Coca-Cola grew by at least 24 million servings in 24 different countries this past quarter. Our brand health and brand value have been created over the long term through strong and consistent investments in our business, rather than through short-term incremental actions. And this is why we remain so committed to our long-term brand investment strategies. Our 2011 performance results underscore how our Company together with our global bottling partners is well aligned and positioned to lead in this difficult environment. As we enter into the third year of our 2020 Vision, our Roadmap For Winning Together remains clear to us and our committed bottling partners.

The assumptions that shaped our vision have not changed. Our expectations for strong performance have not wavered. The key to our calculus for growth in achieving our 2020 Vision will be to ensure that we keep creating balanced growth across both emerging and developed markets, as well as sparkling and still categories. We successfully achieved this balance in 2011.

For the full year, we delivered almost 1 billion unit cases of incremental organic volume growth, or the equivalent of adding another Japan to our business. And importantly, we delivered positive full-year growth in key developed markets like North America, Japan and Germany, while also generating double-digit full-year growth in key emerging markets like India and China. And we will continue to make significant investments in our future all across the world. In fact, in order to achieve our 2020 Vision, we anticipate our global system will add about 100,000 jobs in this decade as we invest to support the tremendous opportunity we see in nonalcoholic beverages, one of the fastest-growing industries in consumer packaged goods.

So let's review our fourth quarter and full-year results. Worldwide we grew volume 3% this quarter, in line with our long-term growth target. For the full year, we grew worldwide volume by 5% including the benefit of cross-licensed brands, primarily Dr Pepper in North America. Excluding these brands, we delivered strong full-year volume growth of 4%, also in line with our long-term target. As for our profit results, we grew comparable earnings per share by 10% for both the quarter and the full year, ahead of our long-term target.

As we close the second year of our 2020 Vision, this also marks the second consecutive year we have delivered double-digit comparable earnings per share growth. Now let's briefly review performance results across our operating groups, beginning first with North America, where our team remains focused on driving profitable and sustainable growth. North America volume was up 1% in the quarter, making this North America's seventh consecutive quarter of growth. And for the full-year, North America's organic volume growth was also up 1%. Our North America business gained total market volume and value share in sparkling, still and nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in both the quarter and the full year. And we delivered these strong results while in the process of successfully integrating the largest acquisition in our Company's history.

Our sparkling beverage results in North America were even for the quarter, with brand Coco Cola volume up 1%. We achieved these results while also earning an increase in retail pricing of 4% in sparkling beverages through the effective execution of our occasion-based brand, package, price and channel strategies. As for Coke Zero, it was up high-single-digits in North America this past quarter and up double digits for the full year, making this the fifth consecutive year of double-digit growth. We also drove positive growth for Fanta, which was up 3% in 2011, its second consecutive year of positive growth. Our still beverages in North America delivered 3% growth in the quarter and 4% growth for the full year while gaining share for the seventh consecutive quarter.

POWERADE continues to be a leading driver of the solid growth, up 11% in the quarter and 12% for the full year. POWERADE once again captured both volume and value share in the sports drink category, both the quarter and for the full year. Our tea brands delivered double-digit growth in the quarter led by Gold Peak which grew double digits for the 19th consecutive quarter. As we have always said, there is no other Western developed market in the world that boasts as dynamic the demographics as those present in North America between now and 2020. Young, vibrant, diverse, educated and entrepreneurial. We like these attributes and have every reason to remain excited about the long-term outlook of our flagship market.

Turning now to our Pacific Group where in 2011 our business, again, delivered consistent growth across a diverse set of markets. Overall, our Pacific Group volume was up 5% in both the quarter and the full year. These results were led by China, up double digits in the quarter and for the full-year, making this 9 out of the last 10 years that our business in China has delivered double-digit growth. Our efforts to enhance the consumer experience with our sparkling beverage brands keep paying dividends, with sparkling beverages up double digits in China for both the quarter and the full year. Importantly, we are seeing strong growth across our entire sparkling portfolio with Coca-Cola Sprite and Fanta all delivering double-digit growth in both the fourth quarter, as well as in the full year 2011.

At the same time, our still beverage portfolio brands are sustaining their solid momentum also delivering double-digit growth for the full year. These results confirm that we are executing the right strategies and have the right capabilities in place in China to deliver sustainable double-digit growth over the long term. Japan's fourth quarter results were up 5%, resulting in slightly positive full-year growth rounding to even. This is a better than anticipated full-year result in light of the tragic national disasters that occurred last March. This also underscores the strength and resilience of our people and brands across the entire Japanese bottling system. Notably, we realized greater momentum across several key channels in Japan this quarter, including convenience stores and vending as we further increased our focus on single serve beverages.

Moving now to Latin America, where in 2011, we once again expanded our volume and value share leadership position. Volume in this total region was up 4% in the quarter and 6% for the full year. This strong performance was once again led by Mexico, up 4% for the quarter and 9% for the full year. Our business in Mexico gained volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages for both the quarter and the full year. In fact, our still beverage portfolio in Mexico reached nearly 1 billion unit cases in 2011, a short four years after the successful integration of [Hagusta Vaya] into our winning portfolio. The rapid evolution of our brands in Mexico is a great testament to our team's ability to execute clear occasion-based channel strategies across all beverage categories in this key market.

We are also advancing our momentum in Argentina, which delivered double-digit full-year growth, while capturing volume and value share in both sparkling and still beverages for the 12th consecutive quarter. And finally, in Brazil volume was up 1% for the full year. Despite a general slowdown in the economy and unfavorable weather, our business in Brazil keeps outperforming the industry, gaining share across both sparkling and still beverages in both, for the quarter as well as for the full year.

Let's now turn to the Eurasia and Africa Group. In 2011, we made sound progress against our goal to strategically invest for tomorrow while gaining share today. Volume in this region grew 4% in the quarter and a solid 6% for the full year. Importantly, our growth in Eurasia and Africa was driven by the continued strong momentum of brand Coca-Cola, up 5% in the quarter and 7% for the full year 2011. Our overall performance in this key region was once again led by India, which delivered 20% growth for the quarter, resulting in double-digit growth for the full year. 2011 was the fifth consecutive year that India achieved double-digit growth. And that has been the case throughout 2011, growth in India was well balanced across our entire portfolio.

Sparkling beverages in India were up over 20% this quarter while brand Coca-Cola was up a strong 15%. And still beverages in India were up 16% this quarter, benefiting from healthy growth across our juice portfolio, including Maaza, up 19%. Russia was down low-single-digits in the quarter, fourth quarter, cycling last year's very strong 31% growth. On a full-year basis, our business in Russia was up mid-single-digits. Our business in Russia is being led by the strong growth of brand Coca-Cola which delivered double-digit growth in 2011. Brand Coca-Cola is now more than twice the size of our primary competitor's cola brand in Russia. Notably, our overall business in Russia keeps outperforming the rest of the industry, gaining both sparkling and still beverage volume and value share.

Turning to Turkey, we gained volume and value share this quarter in both sparkling and still beverages. For 2011, Turkey again delivered double-digit growth as it did the previous year in 2010. And despite geopolitical challenges in the region, our Middle East and North Africa business unit delivered a solid 7% in the quarter and 8% for the full year. A clear example of our commitment to invest for tomorrow in this exciting Middle East region is our recently announced agreement to acquire approximately 50% of the equity of Aujan Industries. Aujan holds the number one position in the still beverage business across the entire Middle East.

Their brands hold a top three position in every market where they complete. This strong partnership with Aujan coupled with the strength of our bottling partners will make the Coca-Cola system a leader in the fast-growing still beverage category in the Middle East. Let's now turn to Europe, a region of the world that is still facing a very uncertain economic environment. Yet for the Coca-Cola Company it is also a region that serves as a testament to how well our system is positioned to face these serious economic challenges. Our business in Europe grew 1% in the quarter, making this Europe's sixth consecutive quarter of volume growth, resulting in a full-year growth rate of 2%.

We achieved these results by strategically tailoring our price and package offerings to meet the needs of each market and their varying economic conditions. Our growth in Europe was widespread with positive fourth quarter and full-year growth across several key markets in Northwest Europe and Spain. We saw the continued growth of Innocent, supported by the successful launch of not-from-concentrate juice in Great Britain. Our growth in Europe was once again led by Germany, up a very strong 9% for the quarter and up 6% for the full year, representing our best full-year growth results in Germany since 1992. While some of this growth can be attributed to favorable weather and consumer sentiment, there is no doubt that our bottling restructuring efforts as well as effective marketing campaigns have played a key role in this improvement.

We are confident that our business in Germany is in a sound position to continue delivering long-term sustainable growth. Looking ahead to 2012 and 2013, despite the lingering debt crisis coupled with economic and political uncertainty, we are confident that we have the right brands, the right structure, the right strategies, and right capabilities in place to continue delivering profitable growth in Europe over the longer term. Now let's turn to an overview of how we are building our brands. As we have said before, we always place our brands first in all that we do across more than 200 countries all around the world.

This is how we have built the world's most valuable beverage brand portfolio with $15 billion brands, more than any other beverage company. Our top four brands, Coca-Cola, Sprite, Fanta and Diet Coke, all once again exceeded $10 billion in global retail sales in 2011. The key component of how we strengthen our global brand portfolio is through innovative consumer engagement. We continuously strive to engage with our consumers in an integrated manner across all social media platforms. A recent example of our efforts in this front was this past weekend's very successful Super Bowl campaign where we engaged fans like never before. Through a unique online viewing experience, fans got to chat with our animated polar bears and see their game reactions.

And they watched the bears move from the digital realm of the TV as they starred in three new well-received and highly rated TV commercials. And an estimated 300,000-plus fans joined the polar bears live, far exceeding expectations. And by the second quarter, the Coca-ColaFacebook feed was receiving 3,400 hits per second. This is just one of a string of marketing achievements of our Company.

Recently, we were humbled by the Advertising Age naming the Coca-Cola Company as its 2011 marketer of the year. And it is gratifying to see our global marketing efforts recognized by this industry-leading publication as we strive to develop and deploy the world's most innovative and effective marketing. Let me update you now on our progress around winning at the point-of-sale. Our system continues to develop critical capabilities to better support over 20 million customers we partner with each and every week to deliver these servings. We measure our progress against this effort by tracking our results across several high impact pragmatic and locally actionable metrics.

One metric we have referenced several times this past year is our immediate consumption volume growth. This metric is meaningful as it drives trial, it drives recruitment and system profitability. In 2011, our immediate consumption beverages were up 4% globally, driven by focused in-store activation efforts and cold drink equipment expansion. In fact, as a global system, we have placed over 1.2 million new pieces of cold drink equipment in 2011, and have placed over 2.2 million since 2010, the first year of our 2020 Vision. Another key metric we monitor closely is the expansion of our Right Execution Daily, or RED program in short.

Some of you may remember RED is our world class commercial process designed to improve execution at the outlet level. Today, operations representing over a third of our global volume utilize RED. And for comparison, when we initiated a 2020 Vision just three years ago, less than 15% of our global volume was distributed through operations using RED. So as we move into 2012, our RED program will remain an area of increasing emphasis, focus and growth for our system. Before concluding our operating results review, I would like to update you on our productivity goals.

Leading priority of our Company is to design and implement an effective and efficient business system with productivity as one of our core pillars of our 2020 Vision. As such, in 2012, we are implementing a new four-year productivity and reinvestment program that we expect will achieve between $550 million and $650 million of total incremental annualized savings by the end of 2015. I am pleased and excited to announce this program from a position of continued growth and momentum towards realizing our 2020 Vision as we consistently deliver results in line with or ahead of our long-term targets.

This program will further enable our efforts to strengthen our brands and reinvest our resources to drive long-term profitable growth. We remain relentless in our efforts to become more efficient, leaner and adaptive to changing market conditions, while at the same time building a continuous improvement and cost management culture in keeping with our 2020 Vision. Gary is going to share further details about this new four-year program in a few moments. Finally, I also want to highlight some of the important progress we're making in the area of sustainable packaging, water stewardship and climate protection. By the end of 2011, we had shipped nearly 10 billion PlantBottle packages, helping reduce our annual emissions of carbon dioxide while also decreasing our dependency on oil-based resin.

As noted in our latest sustainability report, we improved our water use efficiency for the eighth consecutive year, reducing the average amount of water required to produce each beverage serving. We estimate that we replenished 35% of the water used in our finished products due to some 380-plus community water partnerships in 94 countries as we work toward our goal of water neutrality by 2020. And we increased our production volume while reducing our system wide global carbon emissions by 2%, putting us a step closer to our goal of growing our business but not our carbon. These are just a few examples of how we are building our business responsibly by making a positive difference in the communities that we serve, we proudly serve.

These efforts are helping us engage with consumers, reduce our cost of doing business and improve our bottom line. We are keenly aware of how uncertain the global economic landscape remains today. That said, as we look ahead, we see a world looking for hope, for optimism and for renewal. The Coca-Cola Company and the Coca-Cola system is uniquely positioned to refresh this thirsty world. We are refreshing the thirst of our investors consistently by delivering high-quality returns to shareowner's while also generating steady cash flows and paying a steady, healthy dividend. We're refreshing the needs of thirsty global consumers through our diverse brand portfolio and the world's most innovative and effective marketing.

We are refreshing the needs of a thirsty system by increasing our levels of global investment along with our dedicated bottling partners. We are refreshing our operations through a culture of continuous improvement, and central to this is extending and driving productivity efforts to design and implement a more effective and efficient business system. And we are refreshing the needs of our communities through global and industry sustainability leadership. The nonalcoholic ready-to-drink industry grew by $35 billion in total retail value in 2011. We are pleased to say that our Coca-Cola system represented more than 40% of this total industry growth, underscoring that our 2020 Vision is working well.

And while 2011 was another strong year of performance for the Coca-Cola Company, we believe we are just getting started and that our best and brightest days lie ahead. We have a lot to be thankful for and confident about a healthy and beloved brand, a clear road map for continued growth, a well aligned global bottling system, dedicated and passionate associates, and strong financial results and discipline. Taking into account all of these assets to our business, we remain resolute in our desire and confident in our ability to achieve our long-term growth targets and further enhance the value of your investment in the Coca-Cola Company. With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP AND CFO, COCA-COLA CO: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. We once again delivered quality results this quarter and for the full-year, in line with or ahead of our long-term growth targets. In fact, our full-year volume and profit results were in line with or exceeded our long-term growth targets for the sixth consecutive year. We continue to achieve these consistent high-quality results during a period of still mixed economic recovery, which is a real testament to our global system's ability to execute our strategic plans in alignment with our 2020 Vision.

So let's review our earnings results in more detail. We reported comparable earnings per share of $0.79 this quarter, up 10% versus the prior year. Our full-year comparable earnings per share growth also was up 10%, ahead of our long-term growth targets. For the quarter, comparable currency neutral operating income was up 14% bringing our full-year comparable currency neutral operating income growth to 12%, also ahead of our long-term growth target.

For clarity, the impact of currency on our comparable operating income results was a 3% headwind for the quarter and a 3% benefit for the full year, right in line with the quarterly and full-year outlook range we provided during our last earnings call in October. Our business delivered comparable currency neutral net revenue growth of 6% this quarter, in line with our long-term growth target, including a 5% increase in concentrate sales and positive price mix. On a full-year basis, our comparable currency neutral net revenue growth came in at 29%, including a 5% increase in concentrate sales, positive price mix and the impact of the CCE transaction.

And, again, for clarity, the impact of currency on our comparable net revenue results was a 1% headwind for the quarter and a 3% benefit for the full year. Our combined International and Bottling Investments Group price product mix was a positive 3% for the quarter. And our North American price product mix came in at a positive 2% in the quarter, driven by a 4% increase in our pricing to retailers for our sparkling beverages in North America. Our consolidated geographic mix was down 1%, which resulted in a consolidated price mix at the midpoint of our long-term target range of 1% to 2%. For 2012, we anticipate our consolidated price mix results will remain in this target range of 1% to 2%.

Turning to the rest of our P&L, we expected our consolidated comparable gross revenues to decrease slightly in 2011, which they did, due to increased commodity costs, as well as the impact of our acquisition of CCE's North American bottling operations. Importantly, we expect our 2012 consolidated comparable gross margins will remain in line with 2011, even after taking into consideration further commodity cost inflation which I will discuss in a few minutes. Our comparable currency neutral SG&A expenses were even in the quarter and up 30% for the full year. As explained in prior quarterly calls, this full-year increase reflects the impact of acquiring CCE's former North American business, which we did not fully cycle until the fourth quarter of 2011.

The increase in SG&A also reflects our continued investments around the world. On this front for the full year 2011 we grew our direct marketing expenses ahead of unit case growth, sustaining our commitment to invest in the health and the strength of our brands. As for operating expense leverage, it came in positive this quarter for both North America and the Bottling Investments Group. As expected, operating expense leverage for our international operations came in slightly negative in the fourth quarter due to the timing of expenses and operating expense leverage for International came in at even for the full year as planned.

For 2012, we expect to capture low-single-digit operating expense leverage as we keep strategically investing in brand building activities around the world and efficiently managing our operating expenses. Our net interest income came in at a positive $66 million, slightly above the full-year forecast we provided in our last earnings call. For 2012, our best estimate is that net interest income will come in between $20 million and $40 million, primarily due to lower interest rates in some international locations. We expect this income to be spread relatively evenly across the quarters in 2012 and we will update you each quarter as appropriate.

Finally, we closed 2011 with an underlying effective tax rate of 23.9% and expect our 2012 underlying effective tax rate to fall between 24% and 25%. Moving to our cash flow from operations, year-to-date this came in at $9.5 billion. As a reminder, this cash flow result includes $769 million contribution made to our pension plans in the first quarter of 2011. Net of these additional pension plan contributions, we grew our net cash flow from operations a positive 7% for the full year. With regards to our share repurchase program, our net share repurchases totaled $2.9 billion in 2011, at the high end of the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range communicated during our last earnings call. And in 2012, we again expect to repurchase a net share amount within this same $2.5 billion to $3 billion range.

Now let me take a moment to update our outlook on several additional items that may help you model our business in 2012, starting with a quick reminder about this year's calendar. Even though 2012 is a leap year, our first quarter of 2012 will have one less day when compared to the first quarter of 2011, and the fourth quarter of 2012 will have two more days when compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. Now let me come back with our outlook on commodities. As we indicated in our last earnings call, our incremental commodity costs for 2011 came in at approximately $800 million. As a reminder, these costs were related to the raw material and conversion costs associated with sweeteners, metals, juices and PET plastic.

As we look ahead to 2012, we anticipate the underlying commodities related to these inputs will remain somewhat pressured, driven primarily by increases in the cost of juices and sweeteners. As a result, we expect the full-year 2012 incremental impact of commodity costs on our results to range between $350 million and $450 million. Having said that, we believe we have the right strategic plans in place to mitigate the impact of these incremental commodity costs and remain confident in our ability to achieve our long-term growth targets.

Turning now to currency. These have continued to fluctuate with the dollar strengthening, although more moderately against many key currencies. We are mostly hedged for 2012 on the euro and yen, with good coverage on several other currencies. After considering these hedge positions, we currently expect currencies to have a low-single-digit negative impact on operating income for the first quarter of this year and a mid-single-digit negative impact for the full year. As per our normal practice, we will update you both in our commodity and currency forecasts on a quarterly basis as we go through the year.

Now let me update you on our productivity goals. As we close 2011, we have now successfully completed our 2008 to 2011 four-year global productivity program. We completed this program on plan and with actual annualized savings of over $500 million, exceeding our initial savings target of $400 million to $500 million. As Muhtar mentioned earlier, we're now launching a new four-year productivity and reinvestment program. In light of this, I want to take a moment and walk you through the components of the new program.

First, a new four-year global productivity initiative starting this year. This initiative will target between $350 million and $400 million in annualized savings, focused around four primary areas. One, global supply-chain optimization. Two, global marketing and innovation effectiveness. Three, OpEx leverage and operational excellence. And four, data and IT systems standardization.

We are in the initial stages of defining the one-time costs associated with capturing these savings and we will provide an update on these costs on our next earnings call. Second, as we moved through 2011, we accelerated our CCR integration efforts to support brand building initiatives, reinvest in marketing and sales capabilities, as well as to partially offset some of last year's increasing commodity costs. As a result, we effectively realized nearly all of the $350 million in annualized savings in 2011, almost three years ahead of schedule. This is a testament to the great work of our CCR team and their ability to effectively realize and capture synergies while simultaneously delivering profitable growth. Further, we have successfully identified incremental CCR integration synergies in North America, primarily in the area of our North American product supply, which will better enable us to service our customers and consumers.

As such, we now believe our CCR integration efforts will capture an incremental $200 million to $250 million above our original $350 million target, and we expect to capture these incremental annualized synergies starting this year in 2012 and fully realize them by the end of 2015. Correspondingly, we are also increasing our estimate of total one-time costs associated with the capture of CCR synergies from $425 million to $800 million as we implement new initiatives to capture these higher synergies. Therefore, combining both our new global productivity initiative and our newly expanded CCR integration efforts represents a total incremental annualized savings of $550 million to $650 million.

We expect to phase in the capture of these total incremental savings over four years, starting in 2012 through the end of 2015. Going forward, we will report our progress in capturing these total incremental savings under one joint productivity and reinvestment program. As for how we intend to invest the savings generated by this new program, first, and in line with our 2020 Vision, these funds will enhance ongoing system wide brand building initiatives, and, second, as these savings are realized they may also help mitigate potential incremental near-term commodity costs.

As we look back on 2011, we are greatly encouraged by our business achieving yet another solid year of quality results. There is no better proof that our 2020 Vision is working than our Company's continued ability to consistently deliver results that meet or exceed our long-term growth targets even while facing volatile market conditions. And as you consider how to model our business going forward, I want to be very clear that our system remains fully committed to continuing our relative historic price premium for our brands in the marketplace.

For as we have communicated several times in the past, we strongly believe and have consistently proven that the best way to drive long-term sustainable value is by earning price with our consumers in concert with a robust occasion-based brand package and channel strategy that drives profitable sustainable growth. That is why we remain confident we can keep delivering results in line with our long-term growth targets. Our system is healthy and financially strong. We continue to generate cash, invest in our brands, execute our 2020 Vision and growth strategies, and pay a healthy dividend.

Our seasoned management team, over 146,000 motivated Company associates, and highly capable global bottling partners are making the right actions and executing the right strategies to build on our strengths, to refresh a thirsty world and to drive our 2020 Vision. Before concluding our prepared remarks, I want to remind you that I'm looking forward to presenting at CAGNY in Boca Raton on Wednesday, February 22, as well as at the CAGE Conference in London on Wednesday, March 21. I hope to see many of you there at these great investor and analyst events. Operator, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. (Operator Instructions) And our first question today comes from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus. Sir, your line is open.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, I guess, two questions on the overall growth we saw in the quarter. We had been seeing 5%'s and 4%'s in terms of unit volume growth, we saw a plus 3% in the quarter. I know comparisons were a factor, but can we zero in on the emerging markets trends you are seeing? And you highlighted the emerging markets, markets where per capitas were below 150, you highlighted that was a plus 4% in the quarter, it was a plus 6% for the year. So is it possible to generalize on what is going on in those less developed markets and some of the plans you have to improve on that plus 4%?

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning, Mark. You mentioned two questions. One is on the emerging markets, is there another one?

MARK SWARTZBERG: Yes, and the second is, I guess the two parts are A, what is driving that slowdown from kind of a plus 6% to a plus 4%? And then B, as you think about trying to see that 4% become a better number in coming quarters, what are some of the things you think that are going to help you do that?

MUHTAR KENT: I think, first, I don't think you can draw any trend. We are pleased with our volume growth of 3%, which is in line with our long-term growth targets. And I think it is important to note the following. We are cycling an organic volume growth of 5% in the prior year. And full-year volume of 4% is at the organically high end of our long-term growth target for the year. And I am particularly pleased that all operating groups grew in the quarter.

So the cornerstone of our vision is balanced growth across all geographies and balanced growth across our portfolio. We achieved that, both for the quarter and for the year. And I don't think you can draw any conclusions. And also we achieved this kind of growth in the year with not only just a very volatile economic environment, volatile commodity environment, but also one-off, like the issue in Japan, the flooding in Thailand. Right sizing in a huge market like China, where now our transactions are significantly ahead of our volume, which is a testament to the health of the business.

And so, yes, we have had some --there has been some dislocations in some Middle East markets because of the volatility there, because of what is happened, like Egypt and like other parts of North Africa. We believe we see that improving. There has been -- Southeast Europe has been under tremendous pressure, again, those markets our under 150 per capita because of all the volatility that is going on in Europe and around Greece. But I think we should not draw any conclusions.

As we look into 2012, we see healthy trends continuing in Latin America. Healthy trends continuing in Eurasia and Africa and the African continent and also Middle East and Eurasia. We see healthy trends in most of the Pacific Rim area. And we see healthy trends right here in North America. Right now we see better trends in terms of the consumer mobility, eating out more. And just less confusion of the consumer here in North America than we did 12 months ago.

And we see that manifesting itself in our food service business. And Europe finally, I think, is going to be more volatile. And I think we will probably see the first half of the year being more challenged in Europe than the second half of the year. That is sort of the way of I would sum it. But in Europe we have some great markets continuing to grow like Germany, like Scandinavia, like Northwest Europe. And then we still have challenging markets in the Southern Rim, although again, we had moderate growth in Spain also in the fourth quarter. So I believe that we will achieve our long-term growth targets over time in terms of volume, as well as also in terms of our ability to generate price mix across the world.

MARK SWARTZBERG: That's great. And if I could follow-up, zeroing in on some of those externals you are describing, those dislocations that you mentioned in regions like the Middle East and some of the other more recently, more challenging markets. When you think about what is going on in some of those markets from a broader consumer standpoint and kind of what the Coca-Cola Company can do about those things, how are your packaging initiatives changing? And how are you thinking about spending money at the [pull] level in terms of how you're proposing folks take an added interest in your products in those markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Number one, Mark, our brands are getting stronger. We are continuing to invest and you will see us continue to invest. And what happened in a quarter is not the result of our investment in that quarter or the previous quarter, but our investments three or four or five or six quarters ago. And we will continue to invest, our brands continue to gain share. And if you look at our share results overall right now in the world, both in sparkling and in still beverages, they are at an all-time high. Brand metrics for sparkling as well as still beverages are trending in a very healthy manner. So brand health, investments, stronger system, better alignment, all basically works in our favor, even in times of volatility and we are seeing that manifest itself.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research. Sir, your line is open.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everybody. Question, looking out to 2012, we are likely going to see significant stepped-up competitive spending in North America and maybe in some other markets. Gary, you talked about sustaining the price premium in the market? Muhtar, you talked about the long-term brand building strategy. So how are you thinking about balancing profit growth goals against sacrificing any market share. In the event that the stepped-up spending is greater than you expect in any one market or any one given year, to what extent use portfolio management, et cetera? Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Look, you are mostly, Bill, talking about North America here, right?

BILL PECORIELLO: Yes, there could be stepped-up spending in select international markets, but it would probably be mostly in North America. It's yet to be seen.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, so let me address North America first. We have achieved a pretty healthy price mix in the fourth quarter of 2%, including a rate increase in retail pricing of sparkling beverages at 4% in North America, and our brand strength continues with brand Coca-Cola up 1% in the same quarter. And I believe, I think it would be right to assume that this kind of rational pricing would continue in terms of rate for 2012. And that is what I would say because I think there is never room in business for irrationality over the long term. And that is how I would project -- and I think we are going into this from a point of strength, our brands are stronger. Our system is much stronger.

Our metrics for customer service are much, much better. And I see us continuing with our momentum, and I think pricing actions should continue into 2012 in terms of rationality. And we anticipate taking additional pricing on key segments of the business through this year in accordance with our normal commercial practices. And we manage a very broad portfolio of our business. That is how I would reference it. In terms of International, I think you heard Gary talk about a 3% price mix in International and I believe that that is a testament, again, to the strength of our International business which continues to be able to generate good price mix on top of good volume, and still growing our market share. Those are the key metrics for International.

BILL PECORIELLO: Great, thanks, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Hi. I just wanted to drill down a little bit more on, hoping you can provide a little bit more color on the price mix globally that you reported up 1% in the quarter. Considering your geography mix was negative, so I guess I would like to hear what some of the dynamics are that drove the negative geography mix? And then also, I would be curious to hear how your price mix was impacted by your increased efforts behind your smaller packages in a few of your key markets like North America and China?

GARY FAYARD: Sure. Bonnie, why don't I take that one initially, anyway. If you look, where we actually came out was on consolidated price mix it was right at 1.5% positive. So if you take that 3% for International, including BIG, 2% for North America, and then put like a negative 1% on geographic, you get right at -- it's 1.5% is where it comes out. And I would characterize it this way. That is a very good thing for the long term, and that may sound unusual for me to say. But what it means is that we are continuing to invest and grow all of the emerging markets around the world.

Most of those do have margins below the US or Europe, for example, the more developed markets. But we are not milking the business. We're continuing to grow the business, at the same time get very healthy margins in the business, and you can see those coming through the bottom line. So we continue to strengthen the whole business globally. As long as we're doing the right thing, I think you are going to see a negative geographic mix for a very long time because what you want to see is healthy growth in emerging markets.

You want to see very good growth in India, you want to see very good growth in China, et cetera. And at the same time, as Muhtar said, and critically important, then growth actually across every geographic region in which we operate. But when you put all that together you will get negative geographic growth, and I think that is a great thing. But in total, if, as long as it is coming out in our 1% to 2% range, in the quarter it came out right in the middle of that, we are exactly where we want to be.

MUHTAR KENT: Bonnie, just to complement what Gary said, I think the key take away is from how we think are about our business and the health of our business overall, is that as long as we can continue to achieve our volume targets, which we believe we can, and coupled with the kind of price mix, positive price mix that Gary talked about that we achieved for the year, and for the quarter, I think coupled again with the investments that we are making, have been making and are continuing to make in the business, add onto that the productivity and reinvestment program, add onto that the increased weight of our total marketing, because imagine every year in the last three or four years we have been adding around 1 billion cases to our total business. That brings with it more marketing, more distribution, more production, all of that. And then the positive share gains, then we feel very confident that we can continue to deliver our long-term targets despite all of the volatility in the world.

GARY FAYARD: And, Bonnie, let me just come back to the last part of your question, I forgot to. On the right sizing, I would characterize it this way. In China, what we are able to do is actually take the entry level pack from a 600 mL down to a 500 mL size bottle at the same price. Se we actually gave the consumer something they actually preferred at the same price which implicitly carries a price increase inside of that. So from there we actually generated margin.

For the US, what we are very focused on is ensuring we are giving the consumer -- this is back to that occasion-based right package, right channel, right time, right place -- giving the consumer what they want. This is the way you drive profitable sustainable growth and deliver margins, rather than just taking a couple of sizes, stacking it high and selling it cheap.

BONNIE HERZOG: Right. No, it makes sense. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Brian Spillane with Bank of America. Sir, your line is open.

BRIAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

BRIAN SPILLANE: I just wanted to touch on the balance comments that you made earlier. I guess, if you look at 2011, one of the real encouraging things is that the share of incremental profits in 2011 versus 2010 was pretty broad based. So most regions contributed to incremental profits in 2011. As you look out into 2012, is that broadly the way you are looking at the world this year? That you will see more incremental profit growth from more regions? And I guess that helps offset some of the volatility in Europe. And then also just connected to that, gross profits -- I guess I was a little surprised that you are expecting gross margins to be flat given the moderation and input costs. If you could talk a little bit about that, as well.

MUHTAR KENT: Brian, good morning, this is Muhtar. Let me just start answering your question and then Gary can come in also. I think in terms of the overall business is concerned, we believe that we can definitely continue to achieve a balanced portfolio and balanced geographic growth. And I think it is really critical for us to be able to do that, as we have done in '09, '10 and '11. And we have reason to believe that we can grow across Western markets and we can grow across, certainly across, at a higher rate across our emerging markets. And that you will see that continuing.

And as we continue to gain scale in the emerging markets, you will continue to see our margins improving in those markets, as they have been doing in the last three or four years. So I would just say that, yes, definitely balanced across geographies, North America, Japan, Europe. And then certainly, again, broad based in the portfolio both in sparkling and in still beverages. And the still beverages growth that I mentioned in Latin America, for example, and the fact that it is almost, it got to 1 billion cases in Mexico after four short years after [Hugo Zavalla] got integrated successfully into our business. And now it is in many, many markets, flourishing in many markets across Latin America is just another testament of still how much growth Latin America has still to offer. And the good news is that, again, the growth as we build the growth on [Hugo Zavalla] it has not stopped in any way the growth of sparkling beverages that continue to flourish and continue to prosper in Latin America.

GARY FAYARD: So, Brian, this is Gary. Let me just add to that a couple of things. When you're talking about -- first, on balanced growth, the other thing I would say is as you think about, obviously, the most volatile region or economically challenged region this year, it would be Europe, but also remember that this is a year where there are two events taking place in Europe, the Olympics and the Euro Cup are both this year and we happen to be the sponsor of both of those. So I think it is one of those things that is going to help us in that market, as well.

Relative to gross margins, I would say what you should expect to see is you should have seen increasing margins, but what is happening is with that $350 million to $450 million of commodity pressure, what we are doing is we believe we can offset that and hold our margins with the pricing actions that we're taking in the market, as well as the productivity efforts that we are taking as well. So it is really those commodity pressures that, again, granted are half of what they were in '11, but still substantial in 2012.

BRIAN SPILLANE: And, Gary, I guess, in terms of the gross margin, the geographic mix, I guess, would also be a slight drag on that, as well? Is that right?

GARY FAYARD: It actually is. Yes, it is.

MUHTAR KENT: And, Brian, just to close it, don't under estimate the fact that, what I mentioned about immediate consumption growth. That is a critical element that has higher margins, higher prices and improves the mix of our business, and that is continuing at a very healthy rate, particularly also in Western markets like North America, as well as Europe. That is, again, a key testament to the strength of our system which requires a very disciplined execution in the marketplace on a day-to-day basis. And I was recently in Western Europe in the marketplace with John Brock, our partner in CCE, and we saw great examples of how both the activation has already started around the Olympics, but also great execution in the marketplace from an immediate consumption perspective, as well as the brand price pack occasion channel architecture really working in our favor.

BRIAN SPILLANE: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Gary, a bit of a follow-up to Brian's question, but really drilling into North America profit number. In fourth quarter, first clean quarter in lapping CCE acquisition your profit was up 25%. I think the benefit that you had called out in Q1, the timing shift in marketing was about seven points. So even excluding that it looks like the profit was up pretty nicely in the fourth quarter. So maybe a little bit of color as to what drove the profit improvement in Q4 and then as you think about 2012, you have got moderating inflation, you have got pricing that went into the marketplace, you've got cost synergies and cost savings coming through, why wouldn't we expect to see a pretty healthy profit growth in North America in 2012?

GARY FAYARD: Okay. Thanks, Judy, a very insightful question. Let me see if I can give an insightful answer. Here is what I would tell you relative to the fourth quarter performance on North America you do see very healthy increase. A lot of that is actually what we are cycling. Because a lot of the marketing in the fourth quarter in legacy CCE, when we acquired it, there was a lot of marketing that was spent in the fourth quarter of 2010 that CCE had already planned and then we executed against in that fourth quarter that this year, actually got spread through the year.

So it was the timing of marketing. And so there are a few of those type of anomalies. If you remember, if you go back, I think I said in the third quarter call, that the fourth quarter of this year will be the first quarter that is actually comparable. But there are still some unusual things in the fourth quarter of 2010 that you need to go back and make sure you look at. So I'd say, everyone on the call, if you are interested in that, go back and look at some of those things and what you will see is that it will actually bring that profit increase down. It is still a nice increase and profitable, but it will bring it down some in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Relative to 2012, let me just say, I hear you and we are very enthusiastic about our business in North America. It is operating well. They were able to do one of the largest vertical integrations in the history of business and do it flawlessly. To get basically four years of synergies in the first year, increase those synergies and at the same time continue to execute and take share in the market and in a very profitable way. So I feel very good about North America. I am bullish on North America and we have got a very capable team over there executing every day.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Gary, just a follow-up on currency. The mid-single-digit impact for the full year 2012, it sounds like the hedge position is a bit of a drag. If we just take the spot rates, it sort of calculates more like a low-single-digit rate for the full year. So is that the correct assumption? And then to the extent that if there's an upside to currency, is it fair to assume that that is going to come more from the emerging market currencies that you don't really hedge?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Judy, actually the hedge positions we have are in the money today. So on the euro, particularly, we are in the money on that. So better than current spot. But where the drag is coming from and what you are not seeing is that it is really all those emerging market countries. And you would be surprised that a lot of little countries that actually can start having, you add them all up and they can have a pretty large impact. Which is moving you from, I think, you are probably seeing low-single-digits and I am saying mid-single-digits full year, even though the low-single-digits first quarter. But if you look at Brazil, which is one of the big ones, it has been a pretty big move. Brazil strengthened significantly during last year, then weakened significantly, and now it is coming back some.

But it is a lot of these smaller emerging market currencies that are giving that impact. Now with that said, let me just give you some idea of the volatility. The swing of currencies on our earnings in 2012 in the last month is over $100 million in the last 30 days. And that is an improvement by the way. Because we are seeing those kind of volatilities. We are seeing a lot of those emerging market currencies starting to come back, and they are coming back as the world is starting to accept a little risk where there was total risk aversion a month or six weeks ago.

So is there some upside? I hope so, but I don't know today, because of the volatility we just don't know. But I think as we move through the year, we will continue. But the volatility is going to continue as well.

JUDY HONG: Got it. Okay, thanks.

GARY FAYARD: All right, thanks, Judy.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our final question today comes from Caroline Levy from CLSA. Ma'am, your line is open.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA: Thank you very much. A couple things. In Japan, you had excellent volume growth and yet margins in the Pacific region were awful. And that to me was -- I don't want to say awful, they were down a lot year-over-year. That to me is surprising especially given you had single serve growth in Japan. So if you could address that that would be really helpful.

And then two other markets that looked surprisingly soft. Brazil went flat, which it really had been sort of bucking difficult economic trends. Did something change in Brazil? And then finally, it looks like Philippines were down fairly close to 20%. So if you could just addresses three markets, please?

MUHTAR KENT: Sure, Caroline. Let me start. I think the Pacific volume grew a healthy 5% in both Q4 and the full quarter. And, yes, Japan actually, very positive in Japan and it is a testament, again, to the strength of our system in Japan, to what we are doing in Japan, to the leadership of our business, as well as our system in Japan. And I think that we ended up slightly positive despite all the dislocations in Japan. And that is, again, basically bodes well going forward as to the strength of our business there.

I think in terms of your question of how that relates to the Pacific, you need to look at, I think, the full year results of the Pacific and it was, from an income perspective, overall positive, and it is about the timing and it is about marketing expenses also, how they are sort of distributed over the year. In terms of Brazil, I would say that Brazil -- I could just summarize by saying volume was up 1% for the full year. General slowdown of the economy and unfavorable weather did impact our business. But we are outperforming the industry, gaining share across all categories for the quarter and the full year.

And I think you should expect sequential improvement in Brazil as we move through 2012. As far as the Philippines are concerned, we have had essentially a difficult year as we continue to transform that business as it needs to be transformed into a healthy situation for the long term. And think about our German business, it took us a while to get it going again. We believe that certainly the worst is past us in the Philippines and that we should have, in terms of also the tough macro economic environment post the elections has lingered on. But we believe that 2012 will be a better year in the Philippines than 2011. And I think Gary just wants to add something.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Caroline, it's Gary. I just want to correct one thing. On the Philippines, I think you said you were looking at it, you were thinking it was down 20% or so? Let me just say, the Philippines in the fourth quarter and full year were down high-single-digits. So high-single-digits. It was not anything close to 20%.

CAROLINE LEVY: Thanks very much.

GARY FAYARD: Great. Thanks, Caroline.

MUHTAR KENT: Good. Thank you, Gary, and Jackson. So in closing, our strong 2011 performance results and our consistent belief in the solid fundamentals of this great business provide us with the confidence we need to reaffirm our belief in our 2020 Vision. We are refreshing a thirsty world with a capable, resilient and advantaged system. We're laser focused on delivering our 2020 Vision. And we remain committed to driving shareholder value through consistent, continuous investments for growth, dividend distributions and share repurchases. And I would like to thank you for your continued trust and confidence in the Coca-Cola Company and thank you for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for joining. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120221e8270022e
  


 HD
 Q3  2010 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,999 words
   PD
19 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2010 earnings results conference call. (Operator Instructions) I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP, DIRECTOR OF IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us again today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.

   TD
Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecocacolacompany.com under the reports and financial information tab in the investors section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning, and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now I'll turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. First, let me begin by saying that we are very pleased with our third quarter performance. We successfully completed our acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises' North America business, and the sale of our Norway-Sweden bottling operations to CCE on plan and in line with our commitments. And we closed this transaction on the heels of executing a strong quarter.

We continue to build on our momentum, delivering solid volume revenue and profit growth this quarter, with our results exceeding all of our long-term targets and generating sustainable value for our shareholders. This quarter, once again, underscores how we are advancing our 2020 vision from a position of strength, as we enter a new era of growth for The Coca-Cola Company.

Together, in close alignment with our global bottling partners, we are executing with excellence around the world. Our strategies, our brands, our marketing, our innovation, our partnerships, and our people are defining new growth opportunities today and shaping our system's vision for this decade.

Our brand equity is growing stronger around the world, as evidenced by a measurable increase in consumer preference for our brands this quarter, as well as 4% global growth for our flagship brand Coca-Cola on a year-to-date basis. We are now intensely focused on driving a fast and seamless integration in our North America operations, and this evolution of our franchise system is an important milestone in realizing our 2020 vision, strengthening our commitment to best serve our customers and our consumers, and facilitating our ability to achieve sustainable and profitable growth in our flagship market.

Turning to our current results, this quarter's comparable currency-neutral operating income growth was 14%, ahead of our long-term growth target. We grew our quarterly volume a solid 5%, also ahead of our long-term growth target, fueled by organic unit case volume growth across both North America and our international operations.

We increased net revenues a healthy 8% on a comparable currency-neutral basis in the quarter, bringing our year-to-date comparable currency-neutral revenues to 5%. This is in line with our long-term growth target. And once again, we generated significant cash from our operations, with cash flow up 15% year to date.

Now, I will share our performance results in more detail across our markets, starting with our flagship market. North America volume grew 2% this quarter, the second consecutive quarter of positive organic growth. On a year-to-date basis, our North America business is now up 1%.

These results are due to the continued successful execution of our well-defined brand, pack, and price strategy, focused on driving profitable growth. Our sparkling beverages in North America grew volume and value share, both against a total category, as well as versus our primary competitor. And to be clear, when we speak about share swing gains versus our primary competitor in North America, we refer to our performance across all channels, not just measured channels, which represent less than 40% of our North America business.

Brand Coca-Cola health measures keep improving as we increased our favorite brand score versus our primary competitor amongst the most critical consumer segments. At the same time, Coca-Cola Zero delivered double-digit volume growth for the 18th consecutive quarter. Brand Sprite had a second consecutive quarter of positive growth and is now positive on a year-to-date basis. And Fanta had its strongest quarter of the year, growing 4%.

We further extended the footprint of our innovative Coca-Cola Freestyle fountain dispenser, which is on track to be in 15 markets by the end of this year, providing a greater choice of brands to our customers and our consumers. This all reaffirms our confidence that we are executing the right strategies with our bottling partners to drive growth across our entire North America sparkling beverage portfolio.

Turning to North America still beverages, these also continued to accelerate, up a strong 8% for the quarter, and 5% year to date. We have now grown volume share for 11 of the past 13 quarters, and value share for 12 of the last 13 quarters.

Our North America juice and juice drink business delivered positive growth for the quarter, led once again by double-digit growth from our Simply trademark. Our North America energy portfolio also accelerated this quarter, up 15%, including double-digit growth by NOS.

In the North America tea category, our Gold Peak brand delivered double-digit growth in both its bottle, can and food service delivery forms. I also would like to highlight how our North America still beverage portfolio works in concert to generate value.

First, our Glaceau brands were up mid-single digits this quarter in North America, continuing a year-long trend of sequential improvement. Secondly, Powerade was up over 30% in the quarter, outperforming the North America sports drink category, while gaining share against our primary competitor for the eighth consecutive quarter. This performance is not a new turn of events or simply due to price discounting but rather the result of implementing a clear, consistent and competitively sustainable strategy, focused on innovation, consumer engagement, as well as brand building.

In fact, since acquiring Glaceau in mid-2007, our joint Glaceau and Powerade businesses have gained more than 7 points of volume share swing against our primary competitor's combined sports drink and functional hydration offerings. This is the power of valuable brands and strong system execution, working together in the marketplace.

Now, as we begin to benefit from our acquisition of CCE's North America business, we have an important opportunity to take our execution across our entire North America portfolio to the next level. As we have consistently said, we have the right long-term strategies in place in our flagship market and we are confident that we are well positioned for the next era of winning.

Now let me turn to Eurasia and Africa, an operating group consisting of nine business units, with 89 countries, spanning from Africa through the Middle East and India, up to Russia. This group grew 12% volume in the third quarter, with strong performance across both sparkling and still beverages. Year to date growth now stands at 11%.

All nine business units in Eurasia and Africa grew this quarter with countries representing more than half of the group's volume increasing by double digits. This broad-based growth was led by Russia, up 30% this quarter, and 13% year to date.

We outgrew our primary international competitor in Russia this quarter. Importantly, this high quality growth was led by the strong performance of our core sparkling brands, which drove almost half of this quarter's absolute volume growth. In fact, brand Coca-Cola, the single largest nonalcoholic RTD brand in Russia, was up 34% this past quarter, gaining both volume and value share.

We're also making steady progress in the Russia juice market. The integration of our Multon juice business, which began this past quarter, is advancing as planned. And this quarter we also acquired Nidan, a leading juice brand in Russia. This transaction will enable us to further expand our juice offerings in this important market.

We also grew double digits this quarter in Turkey, Southern Eurasia, complementing high single-digit growth in the Middle East.

India, meanwhile, achieved its 17th consecutive quarter of growth, despite facing record rainfall during this summer's monsoon season and cycling 37% growth in the comparable 2009 period. Importantly, India captured share in both sparkling and still beverages. And on a year to date basis, we have grown trademark Coca-Cola 18% in India, while our Maaza juice brand is up 24%, demonstrating the broad-based strength of our portfolio in this critical market.

Our commitment to India is unwavering. Last month we announced plans to invest up to $120 million in a new plant in Southern India and we are excited about the significant and sustainable opportunities this region has to offer over the long term.

Another continent we're excited about and keep investing in heavily is Africa. Over the past 10 years, our system has invested more than $5 billion in the African continent and we plan to invest another $12 billion as a system in the next decade. As for this quarter's performance in Africa, we saw double-digit growth in East and Central Africa and mid single-digit growth in North and West Africa.

South Africa delivered 6% unit case volume growth, benefiting both from the momentum generated by our FIFA World Cup activation programs, as well as our ongoing work to improve our route to market and small store activation capabilities in this key market.

Moving to our Pacific group, overall volume growth was up 11% in the third quarter, bringing our year-to-date volume growth to 8%. These results were supported by a return to double-digit growth in China, up 12% in the third quarter.

China captured volume and value share gains in both sparkling and still beverages. Our sparkling beverages grew high single digits in China, led by the strong performance of both brand Coca-Cola and Sprite, with Sprite remaining the number one sparkling brand in China, for the 14th consecutive quarter. Our still beverages in China were up a strong double digits, led by the continued momentum of our Minute Maid Pulpy brands.

We are one of only a few true multi-category beverage players in Russia, twice as large and growing faster than our primary international competitor. And while we are pleased to report such good results this quarter, our focus in China is primarily on building our business with great brands across multiple categories to drive strong performance over time.

The measure of our success in this country will be how we grow our total business between now and 2020. We are confident we have the right strategies in place to deliver sustainable double-digit growth in China over the long term.

We were also pleased to see Japan return to growth, up a very strong 11% for the quarter, and 3% year to date. While this quarter's volume growth was our highest in Japan in over a decade, we recognize that along with the rest of the beverage industry, our business benefited from record high temperatures this summer.

That said, our brand portfolio gained further traction with the Japanese consumer. For example, Coca-Cola trademark was up 11% this quarter, a third consecutive quarter of positive growth, driven by effective and exciting summer marketing programs and successful FIFA World Cup activation. And our water business in Japan also drove profitable growth with this summer's launch of I LOHAS Mikan, a new mandarin orange flavored water, extending the presence of our industry-leading and eco friendly single-serve I LOHAS brand. Despite the success we have so far had in Japan this year, it is important to point out that economic headwinds remain challenging for the time being.

As for the Philippines, we delivered a fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth, with Coca-Cola trademark growing 12%, and still beverages up 20%, supported by strong gains in tea, juices, and juice drinks, as well as water. We also announced our commitment to increase our investments in this critical country by $1 billion over five years, as we remain focused on investing ahead of demand.

Moving now to Latin America. For the quarter, volume grew a steady 4%, gaining share in total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages. Despite adverse weather conditions in Mexico, Colombia, and most of Central America, brand Coca-Cola was also up 4% for the quarter.

Brazil delivered very strong results with volume up 13% for the quarter, and 12% year to date. This also marked the third consecutive quarter that Brazil has gained volume and value share in total nonalcoholic beverages.

Mexico volume was even for the quarter, cycling 9% growth from last year, and impacted by heavy rain during the summer season. Mexico has now gained total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage volume share for 14 of the last 15 quarters and value share for 15 consecutive quarters. We are confident that Mexico will return to normalized growth over the balance of the year.

Lastly, our South Latin region, which includes Argentina and Chile, delivered solid mid single-digit growth.

Moving to Europe, we still see customers and consumers pressured by the difficult economic conditions impacting various countries in this geography. For the quarter, our volume was slightly positive rounding to even versus the prior year. Our performance of sparkling beverages in Europe was led by trademark Coca-Cola, which was up 1% for the quarter and on a year to date basis.

Our still beverages in Europe saw positive growth across categories, including double-digit growth in energy and tea, as well as positive results in both sports drinks and juice and juice drinks. Importantly, our still beverages gained both volume and value share in Europe this past quarter.

We were pleased to realize low to mid single-digit growth this quarter across most of our Western European markets, including France, the Nordics, and Great Britain. These encouraging results were offset by ongoing economic challenges in South and Eastern Europe. In Spain, despite the ongoing economic crisis, our business once again improved its share trends, capturing total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage share this quarter.

Our Nordics business grew a solid 6% in the quarter. Norway and Sweden have now transitioned to CCE's ownership. The move of these bottling operations is consistent with the principles we have always shared regarding our Bottling Investments Group. That is to sell our selected Company-owned bottling operations at fair value and at the right time to strategically and financially align bottling partners. As we have said many times before, we will only sell a bottling operation when it is a successful and sustainable business. The Norway and Sweden operations are just that.

So on behalf of our Company, I would like to personally thank all of our Coca-Cola associates in Norway and Sweden for their great efforts. They are the foundation upon which a strong business was built, and we look forward to partnering with them now that they have joined a new CCE organization.

As for Germany, our remaining European bottling operation, it sustained its momentum, delivering its fifth consecutive quarter of positive volume growth.

You have heard me say time and time again that we always put our brands first in everything that we do across each and every one of our operating groups. As a result, our sparkling beverages grew 3% in the quarter, with international sparkling beverage volume up 4%.

As for Coca-Cola Zero, it continues to be one of the fastest growing global sparkling beverages in the world. Earlier, I referenced Coke Zero's uninterrupted stream of success in the North America market. This momentum extends around the world with the brand up 6% in international markets on a year to date basis.

We are also successfully expanding our still beverage portfolio with total still beverage unit case volume increasing by 11% in the quarter, led by double-digit growth in sports drinks and water, as well as high single-digit growth in juices and juice drinks.

I mentioned before how Powerade has been the growth leader of the sports drink category in North America, but this brand's success story is also a global one. Powerade has almost doubled its global share since 2000 and this momentum extended into the third quarter, supported by the flawless execution of Powerade's global FIFA World Cup campaign across 34 markets.

In summary, the sound results across our operations and the balanced growth across our sparkling and still beverages are a testament to our seasoned operating team and global franchise partners. Together, we are executing our 2020 vision in a disciplined, aligned, and decisive manner. We are growing our business, while holding a more than 3-to-1 volume and value share advantage internationally over our primary global competitor.

And while we grow our business, the strength of our flagship brand is only getting stronger. This past quarter alone, Coca-Cola was named South Africa's top brand by the Sunday Times, and Coca-Cola retained its number one ranking in Interbrand's rankings of the best global brands for the 11th consecutive year.

Despite these recognitions, we can assure you that we are not content. In fact, we remain constructively discontent. We realize and appreciate that many near-term challenges remain with our consumers and customers around the world. So as we further build our business momentum across the world, we are also committed to building a better tomorrow. One way we are doing this is by delivering on our promise to be the global leader in sustainable water use and the industry leader in packaging, energy, and climate protection.

This past quarter, our PlantBottle package, a new redesigned PET plastic bottle made partially from plants, won a Greener Package Award, reaffirming our position as a sustainable packaging leader and representing yet another step in our journey to create the bottle of the future. Since making its debut in Denmark in December, 2009, our PlantBottle package has rolled out in a variety of sizes across our sparkling and still beverage portfolio.

By the end of this year, we will have 2.5 billion PlantBottle packages in the market and we expect to double this number in 2011. The presence of these packages this year alone is equivalent to eliminating almost 30,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide, CO2, and approximately 70,000 barrels of oil.

So, our commitment to lead in climate protection is one we have worked on diligently for years. We made a public commitment in 2008 that we would place an additional 100,000 HFC-free coolers in the marketplace by the end of 2010. I am pleased to report that together with our bottling partners, we have fulfilled this commitment five months ahead of schedule, having placed our 100,000th incremental HFC-free unit in the marketplace this past quarter, bringing our total number of HFC-free coolers in the marketplace to 220,000 units.

Another way we are building a better tomorrow is by partnering with our communities. A great example of this is our recent launch of Project Nurture in Kenya. This is a mango and passion fruit and juice sourcing partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Through this creative initiative, we are helping develop local food sourcing farms to support our expanding juice businesses around the world. Equally important, we are improving the incomes of more than 50,000 fruit farmers in Kenya and Uganda.

We're also building for a better tomorrow by putting our people first. In fact, I spend as much time developing our management team and talent as I do leading our business. Our people are the absolute key competitive advantage and enabler to achieving our 2020 vision.

The real opportunity in developing our people is finding leaders with a global mindset and experience who can effectively lead a multinational, multicultural, multilingual team of associates and bottling partners. To do this, we have a consistent set of criteria we apply when it comes to talent management, seeking leaders with the breadth of experience and perspective who can think beyond their geography and also operate in different and dynamic environments.

In the end, our reputation attracts and retains talent, but we cannot rely on this as our only strategy. Just as we continue to focus on building our brands, we're also investing in our brand as a 21st century employer. Which is why I was pleased to see us receive such a high ranking on Universum's Second Annual Survey to identify the world's most attractive employers. The 2010 survey was based on data from nearly 130,000 college students all around the world. The Coca-Cola Company moved up five spots since 2009 to number eight in the world according to the surveyed business students, number two amongst consumer goods companies, and the only beverage company ranked in the top 20.

Let me close by saying that we are confident in our system's ability to win together, aligned and focused on executing against our consistent growth strategies to achieve our 2020 vision. Despite facing extended economic headwinds, we are on course to deliver on our commitment to grow volume, revenue, share and profits in 2010. The integration of our North America business is fully under way and well on track. We have created the right operational structure, which will accelerate our ability to make agile strategic decisions to build on our strong momentum in this marketplace.

As we look ahead, we see a world that is yearning not just for the beverages provided by The Coca-Cola Company, but also for the values and ideals that our brands represent. Values and ideals like community, like fun, happiness, and the hope for a better tomorrow. This is what inspires the strong and unyielding belief in the growth of our Company and our system, as well as the long-term value it can create for our shareholders. So with that, I would like to turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. Good morning, everyone. As Muhtar said, we once again delivered a quarter of consistent quality volume and profit growth. Our volume, revenue, and profit results all came in ahead of our long-term growth targets this quarter, reaffirming that our highly capable leadership team is executing the right strategic plans with our bottling partners to achieve our sustainable long-term goals. These results demonstrate that we are building on our 2010 momentum and advancing our 2020 vision.

As outlined in our release, we reported comparable earnings per share of $0.92, up 12% versus the prior year. For the quarter, our business delivered strong comparable net revenue growth of 8% in the quarter, driven by a 7% increase in concentrate sales, and a 1% positive price mix impact. Our comparable operating income was up a strong 14%, bringing our year-to-date comparable growth to 15%. While currency had a minimal impact on operating income this quarter, it had a 4% positive impact year to date.

Further, our comparable gross profit increased 10%, with year-to-date gross profit up 9%. Again, currency had a minimal impact on gross profit in the quarter, but has had a 2% positive impact year to date. As for our cash flow from operations, this increased 15% year to date to $7.2 billion. This growth was primarily driven by our improved performance, including the effects of currency.

Now, let me go through some detail around our quarterly results and year to date performance. Our sequential improvement in price mix was in line with our expectations, with the ongoing impact of geographic mix more than offset by our positive global revenue growth management strategies. This improvement brings our year-to-date price mix results to even versus the prior year, fully consistent with our expectations shared in previous earnings calls. As we have communicated before, we expect our price mix to remain even for the full year.

Our comparable currency-neutral cost of goods was up 3% for the quarter and is now up 1% year to date, fully in line with our communications in previous quarterly calls, when we said that we expected our cost of goods to grow in a low single-digit range for the full year. Comparable currency-neutral SG&A expenses were up 8% in the quarter and up 3% year to date, reflecting increased levels of marketing spend, driven by the cycling of low marketing expenses during the same period last year, which we anticipated and also outlined for you in our last quarterly call.

As for our total marketing spend, including both our direct and point of sale marketing, this continues to be positive on a year-to-date basis, as we remain committed to investing in our brands for long-term growth. For this quarter, we captured 4 percentage points of operating expense leverage. This was a little better than our expectation for the full year that I mentioned last quarter, and was driven by greater top line profit growth, continued strong focus on cost management, and the benefits of our productivity initiatives.

Importantly, this underscores the unique strength of our global system, a system able to simultaneously run highly effective and efficient operations while driving solid top line results.

Going forward, we now expect our full-year 2010 operating expense leverage to come in at the low to mid single-digit range. Lastly, the lowering of our year-to-date effective tax rate from 23.2% to 23% benefited our earnings per share by a little less than a penny.

Now, let me take a minute to highlight a few additional factors we see in the fourth quarter of this year. First, I want to remind you that as highlighted in our previous quarterly calls, our comparable results for 2010 reflect the impact of the deconsolidation of certain entities, primarily bottling operations, due to new accounting guidance that became effective the beginning of this year, as per FASB requirements.

We've now reflected the appropriate changes within our GAAP and non-GAAP schedules to provide a comparable income statement for external modeling purposes and have posted a schedule in the investors section of our website that takes into account this change in accounting guidance to assist you in adjusting prior year results.

Secondly, as per my earlier remarks, currency had a minimal impact on our comparable results this quarter. As such, and as we've communicated in our prior quarterly calls, we believe that currency will have a slightly positive impact on operating income on a full year basis, with this benefit weighted towards the first half of 2010.

We expect currency to have a minimal to low single-digit negative impact on operating income in the fourth quarter. Looking forward, while we don't expect to see a repeat of the currency volatility we saw in early 2009 and earlier this year, we would expect some further volatility going forward as economies emerge from the global recession differently.

Please note that we routinely monitor our exposure to currency, actively hedge hard currency, such as the euro and yen, and proactively balance our coverage as appropriate. We'll keep doing so in this environment, in line with our long-term hedging strategies and we'll keep you updated on our hedging activities. Importantly, we will keep managing and investing in our business at the local market level and in local currencies, to drive long-term growth and increase the consumption of our brands.

On productivity, we're well on track and on plan to deliver $500 million in annual savings from our initiatives by the end of 2011.

Lastly, with regard to our share repurchase program, we were out of the market pending the close of our transaction with Coca-Cola Enterprises. With this transaction now closed, we're in the process of reentering the market and now expect to repurchase approximately $2 billion of shares by the end of 2010.

While on the subject of CCE, let me share a few items regarding the transaction. First, the deal closed on October 2, 2010, which was the first day of our fourth quarter. While this transaction was structured as primarily cashless, under the terms of the deal we agreed to make a cash payment to CCE in the event that the actual debt assumed upon acquisition was less than the previously agreed upon amount.

Therefore, in anticipation of closing the transaction, a cash consideration of $1.3 billion was paid to CCE, substantially related to the debt level assumed. This payment was made on October 1, the last day of our third quarter. Concurrently and as expected, we also received about $900 million in cash from CCE for the sale of our Norway and Sweden bottling operations. Both of these transactions are reflected in the quarter's cash flow statement and balance sheet.

As for the recurring results we report today, these were not impacted by the CCE transaction. When we report our fourth quarter and full year results, these will be the first to fully reflect the incorporation of CCE's North American business as well as the divestiture of our Norway and Sweden bottling operations.

Secondly, when we announce our fourth quarter and full year results, we will continue to detail our results by our five existing geographic operating groups, with the North American operating group fully incorporating our newly constituted Coca-Cola Refreshments and Coca-Cola North America organizations.

Finally, with regard to synergies, as we have announced previously and reiterated in our earnings release today, we continue to expect synergies of at least $350 million per year, phased in over the next four years. We know that many of you are looking for additional modeling information regarding our newly integrated North America business. Please note that before the end of this year, we intend to share with you further details regarding our capital and debt structure plans, as well as the impact of other items regarding the modeling of our new North American operations.

In conclusion, we've delivered strong volume growth and high quality profit growth through the first three quarters of this year. Both our operating income and earnings per share growth rates are ahead of our long-term growth targets on an ongoing currency-neutral basis. Our revenue growth has sequentially improved over the course of the year and is now fully in line with our long-term growth targets.

All of this is a testament to our seasoned management team's ability to effectively manage and execute our strategies within a challenging market environment. Together, with our global bottling partners, we are maintaining our disciplined investment strategies and executing the right actions to drive our business for both today and tomorrow. As such, we remain confident that we will keep enhancing the health of our brands and importantly, drive long-term profitable growth and value for our share owners. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning. Muhtar, you had a very strong quarter in North America relative to where the industry is growing. Can you talk about what the Coke system is doing in the non-measured channels to drive this outperformance and why you think it's sustainable? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning, Bill. I think you're right in pointing out that we had a good quarter in North America. Volume grew 2%. Second consecutive quarter of positive, and I highlight organic growth, and year to date volume growth was 1%.

I think if you sort of double click and dig down for the quarter, total sparkling was even. Trademark, and then for the year to date, when you look at like trademark Coca-Cola on a year to date basis, it's even versus minus 3% for the same three quarters of prior year.

So one of the things that is continuing to drive this is our success in our brand, price, pack, channel architecture that we have talked about for a number of quarters that we're implementing. I think another one is our continued strength in our brands. We continue to invest in our brands and it's paying off.

Coca-Cola remains the number one favorite brand and has widened that lead over its nearest competitor. Ratio is now 1.6 to 1 versus 1.4 in year-to-date 2008, for example. Favored brand scores are again up. Coke Zero favored brand scores continue to grow at a significant rate.

So all of that is paying off and I think that it's important that we have a strategic focus that is consistent on building powerful brands, creating the value with our customer relationships and also a high performing system that is capable of working together to serve our customers and consumers.

And I'm happy also to point out that in the third quarter, as the industry returned to more rational pricing, CCNA, our North American operation, Coca-Cola USA gained value share in total NARTD and volume and value share in the sparkling as well as still categories.

So, when you look back at, say, some of the media reports back in the middle of 2008, say June-July 2008, one of the priorities I outlined at that time, if you look into the clippings and go back into recent history, I said it is to stabilize and return to sustainable growth our North American operations. I think that in no way are we declaring victory.

We're in the process of stabilizing, as you can see from the numbers and we're cautiously confident that even in the depths of the most severe crisis that we've recently had in the last couple of years in North America -- and the US consumer is still confused, by the way -- that our investments are paying off. Our alignment with our bottling partners is paying off.

And now I think we can accelerate that with this historic transaction. So I'm particularly pleased as we've gone into the quarter, as we have gone -- sorry, into this transaction at the end of this quarter, this past quarter, that we go into that transaction from a point of strength, from a position of strength, and as I said, the transaction will further enable us to accelerate our momentum, I believe.

BILL PECORIELLO: And Gary, if I can just quickly follow up, I know you said you are going to update us at year end on some of the deal math, but originally you had said the deal would be accretive by 2012. Interest rates have moved down since there. Do you see it as likely to be accretive on 2011 earnings?

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bill. I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you an update on the answer to that question actually when we get together later in the year.

We're putting together all of the numbers now and to really answer it, you've got to go through all of the synergies. You've got to go through all the purchase accounting adjustments and everything else. Some of those are not complete yet.

So while you're right, interest rates have come down, which will be helpful, let me delay the answer to that question until later this year. But for sure 2012 is accretive; whether it's going to become accretive in 2011, I don't know yet.

BILL PECORIELLO: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: And next is Carlos Laboy from Credit Suisse.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

CARLOS LABOY: Muhtar, could you provide us maybe some more granularity on the Philippines? Can you expand on the infrastructure development that's facilitating this type of volume growth? Maybe talk a little bit about the profitability levels that you might be, or improvements that you're seeing out of the Philippines.

And on a related basis, you're talking more -- your management seems to be talking more about transactions and tracking transactions better, not just volume. Can you speak to how you're using this metric internally and maybe give us a sense of what it's telling you about transaction growth versus volume growth?

MUHTAR KENT: First, on the Philippines, Carlos, I think as we've noted, we posted a strong quarter of plus 19% growth in the third quarter, which was actually our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Our BIG team, Bottling Investment Group team, led by Irial and his associates, I think are doing -- have done a good job in stabilizing the business, first in the Philippines and now we've been returning it to sustainable growth. Coca-Cola grew 12% in the quarter, due to an emphasis on multiserve packages to protect our Coke with Meals Heartland and I think our still beverages grew 20%.

We've also recently announced our commitment to the Philippines to increase our investments, to the tune of about $1 billion over the next five years, and I think that again tells you that we believe in the future of the Philippines. We believe in the future of the Philippines consumer, as well as the Philippines in total as a country, and I think we're excited what the future offers in the Philippines.

As far as transactions are concerned, at the end of the day, you've got to remember that consumers don't buy unit cases. They buy transactions, packages, at certain price points.

I think it's really -- that's why it's so important for us to track the consumer behavior, patterns of consumption, in different channels, on a transaction basis. And I think that we are certainly seeing the benefiting of tracking that metric in the United States, especially as we have offered more choices as part of our brand, price, pack, channel architecture in the United States. That's working well. And you will continue to see a focus on that metric as we widen it across the world.

GARY FAYARD: And Carlos, this is Gary. Just to be definitional for everyone that's on the call, when -- as you were talking about transactions, the way we define transactions is that a two-liter package, if you bought a two-liter bottle, that's one transaction. If you bought a 14 or 16-ounce bottle, that's one transaction. If you buy a 12-pack of cans, that's one transaction. And it really then drives into our brand, pack, pricing architecture and how you drive value for the brand. So it's critically important and one of those metrics that we are actively reviewing every month.

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you. That's helpful.

OPERATOR: And the next question comes from John Faucher from JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning, thank you. Wanted to dial down on a couple of different markets where we saw some, a little more volatility in results than we're used to seeing, or at least in Russia's case more positive volatility. You had mentioned weather as a factor in Japan, Russia and Mexico. Can you just talk a little bit about how you would have seen the normalized trends in those three markets, and particularly for Japan and Russia how you see things normalizing over the next couple of quarters? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: John, good morning. You've heard me say about Russia and Ukraine in particular in the past that these markets are linked to more -- we should try to think of these as being more volatile markets. They will go into the crisis quicker, deeper and they will come out of the crisis quicker and deeper. We're seeing an exact play of that happening. And I think that Russia over the next sort of three to -- three-year period, say, will normalize to growth rates of sort of double digits. I think as we move forward.

But again, you'll see some volatility in Russia play out over the next three years. But I think a more gradual return to a high single-digit and double-digit growth rate.

As far as Mexico is concerned, you ask the question. I think during this quarter, Mexico and certain regions of northern South America, the northern part of South America, suffered from unusual, very unusual high rainfalls, which were, in fact, in some cases in Mexico, particularly severe enough to disrupt distribution over some prolonged period and of course also this past quarter, again remind you that Mexico was cycling 9% growth in the prior year.

I said I think in the call earlier that Mexico, we believe that Mexico returned to more normalized rate of growth that we've seen in the past periods, over the last two or three years.

And I think Japan certainly benefited from the extraordinarily positive weather, lack of rainfall, and also very high sustained temperatures during the key summer months, July, August. I think that Japan -- but again, not all of the growth was related to that.

Some of the programs are really -- we are really gaining traction, especially in the Kanto region, in Tone as well as Coca-Cola Bottlers Tokyo and also some of the other outlying, like Coca-Cola Central Japan. And therefore I think Japan, we should see Japan, despite the very challenging consumer landscape deflationary environment, should return to more of an even to 1% to 2% growth rate normalized over the coming period.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So that's over the coming period, or do you think that's over the next couple of quarters?

MUHTAR KENT: I think the next coming period, meaning sort of the one to three-year period.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, great.

MUHTAR KENT: And then China, I think based on the cycling of plus 29, 30% from the prior quarter, in the quarter four, certainly we'll see moderation there. But as I said, our focus is to benefit from our successful multi-category positions in China, and drive sustainable profitable double-digit growth over time leading into 2020.

JOHN FAUCHER: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Going back to North America, as we think about the volume trend, the 2% certainly is encouraging, but it seems like the price mix benefit has been pretty minimal here. So as you look out over the next six to 12 months and you continue to focus on the brand, channel, pack architecture, would you assume that you see an acceleration in terms of the price mix benefit?

And then over the longer term, if you think about the North American business now that you've integrated the CCE's North American operation, what do you think is sort of the right revenue growth projection for that part of the business?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, I won't give you a sort of look forward statement on the United States business. All I can tell you, Judy, is that I think in this past quarter, net revenues for the quarter increased 2%, which reflected a 2% increase in our concentrate sales, and a positive price mix, which sort of rounded to even, which was partially offset by deconsolidation of certain entities due to a change in our accounting guidance. And I'll have Gary comment on this, too.

But I think it's really important that price mix will gradually strengthen, I believe, in the United States, as both our sparkling and still portfolios grow and as we get traction in terms of a more nimble and faster system in the United States, as we transform our business and reap the benefits of successful integration.

But it's really important to note that it is personally very pleasing for me that we can lead into this transaction, with two consecutive quarters of growth and also importantly this growth is balanced and that you've got, like trademark Coca-Cola, year to date on an even basis compared to, say, minus 3% for the first three quarters of prior year, and Coke Zero still doing very well in double-digit growth.

And so I think -- and then our still beverage strategy is really working very well, with total still beverages up 8%; on a year-to-date basis up 5%, and that's a derivative of our success in both the juice segment as well as sports drinks, as I mentioned, energy, tea, all working together, coming together to generate this balanced growth in the United States.

And I think, again, you can expect the price mix to gradually strengthen, but it's really important that we continue to invest in our brands and in our infrastructure in North America. And that's the effect of marketing is paying dividends, the strength of our brands are paying dividends and especially in this third quarter, this past third quarter where there was price rationalization in the industry that we could still generate 2% organic growth, was particularly encouraging.

JUDY HONG: Okay.

MUHTAR KENT: Gary, do you want to comment?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Judy, just a couple of things. First, there was a negative 1 point from structural change and that was the deconsolidation of Honest Tea this year, versus it was consolidated last year, just to make that adjustment.

The other, I think, and it's just expanding on what Muhtar just said, I think if you look at our pack, price architecture, particularly on the smaller entry level $0.99 pack, while that has some negative pressure actually on gross profit and price mix, it's absolutely the right thing to do. Really helping with recruitment, really helping us drive transactions, as Carlos was asking about earlier, and I think it's one of the things together with I think very successful marketing programs that's driving those brand preference scores.

So this is one of those examples where North America went down over a long period of time and it's going to take us some time to really get it back. But I'm really optimistic and confident, because of where we are starting from right now.

JUDY HONG: And, Gary, just a quick follow-up. You called out the favorable timing of G&A in North America as a benefit in the quarter from a profit perspective. Is there a way to quantify how much that's helped the profitability in the quarter?

GARY FAYARD: No, and really what we had is we had some reversals of some compensation plans last year and it was both in North America and in the corporate segment. And in fact, reversed in the third quarter and then reinstated in the fourth quarter. So you've got some timing swings between quarters.

JUDY HONG: Okay, thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: And next is Kaumil Gajrawala from UBS

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning everybody. First on Europe; as you moved through the quarter, would you say that trend strengthened or weakened maybe month to month?

And then second thing. Shipments were about 100 basis points it looks like ahead of case sales, is this something that you reverse in 4Q? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Kaumil, I think it's fair to say that as far as the general trends are concerned, if you looked at the Q2 trend of minus 1 and the Q3 trend of even, certainly that's an improvement going -- sequential improvement. And I think, again, Europe has been a little bit, continued to be a tale of two cities type of -- the west being performing better counterintuitively with higher per capita, as we mentioned, markets like France and Benelux and Great Britain, but also at the same time, east and southeast Europe still very challenged, from the Iberian peninsula to Greece and southeast, former eastern Europe countries like Romania and Czech Republic, Hungary, central Europe all remained more subdued and consumer confidence being still very challenging in that environment.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it, and on the shipments?

MUHTAR KENT: Gary, do you want to comment on the shipments?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, I would expect shipments to pretty much be in line in the fourth quarter with volumes. I think year to date, they are pretty much in line and should be in the fourth quarter as well.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Christine Farkas from Bank of America.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Gary, just a couple of housekeeping items. I wanted to confirm currency. Was that actually neutral on the top line as well as profits in the quarter?

And could you comment on CapEx targets? Certainly we hear a lot about Coke's planned investments in a number of emerging markets. I'm curious if that's putting some upward pressure on your overall CapEx targets in the bigger picture.

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Christine. Currency on revenue was pretty much minimal. So currency basically for the quarter was minimal. It's very little impact. And we expect a little bit in the fourth quarter it looks like, but it's not going to be major.

Relative to CapEx, most of those investments, when we talk about investments in all those countries, it's really system investments, it's our sales and the bottlers. And much of that is actually bottler investment.

We'll go through later this year and talk about CapEx for next year, but I would expect CapEx for this year to be pretty much in line with what we talked about earlier in the year. And CapEx for next year we will go through, as we pull all of our plans together for 2011, but you're not going to see significant changes.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. Thanks for that. And just a quick follow-up on South Africa. Certainly volumes last quarter were flat and now we've seen a nice acceleration post the World Cup. I'm wondering if there was something structural or economic happening there and what's a sustainable type of direction?

MUHTAR KENT: Christine, hi. I think we're very pleased with the effective execution of our World Cup programs and I think it has, again, helped our brands on a sustainable basis in South Africa. The sparkling category is showing recovery with improvements in our -- in the new 1.25-liter returnable glass bottle and also as I've said, the FIFA World Cup programs. I think Fanta is performing well after we've made some, again, pack changes.

Activities in general have yielded good results and consumers still trading down to more affordable options. We see that, especially in juices and waters, and we still see some heavy discounting going on.

But I would say overall, the consumer psyche is beginning to recover from the hard economic conditions of 2009. You would recall that last year GDP shrank by about 2 -- between 2% to 2.5%, if I recall, and 2010 GDP is estimated to be at around plus 4% and we are benefiting from that also.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay, great. Thanks for that, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, thanks. Good morning, everyone. Gary, I had a modeling question, and then Muhtar, something on North America. And I hear you, Gary, on unit volume and gallonage in line or roughly in line fourth quarter. I'm wondering, when I look back, I see unit volume and gallonage in line in the first quarter, in line in the second quarter, and then that up 7 versus up 5 here in the third quarter and yet they are described as year to date in line.

Any thoughts on that? Again, the go forward is the key here, but any thoughts on my number's wrong, or what's going on there?

GARY FAYARD: Hey, Mark. Good morning. I'll have to go back and look at it by quarter. What I looked at was just the third quarter and year to date. And while it's 2 points ahead in the quarter, gallons versus cases, it's right at exactly the same year to date. And I would expect the fourth quarter to be right in line as well.

And what you're seeing is just the seasonality of the business. And as the business was accelerating in the third quarter, the bottlers were obviously just ordering more and more concentrate, because they had been behind in ordering up through the first two quarters. So I don't think there's anything unusual in it at all. And I think as I said, it's come back in line year to date and I would expect it to stay in line in the fourth quarter.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Fair enough, okay, great. And then Muhtar, couple things on North America. As has been discussed here, we've seen the trend has been very good profit wise for nearing two years now here. Are you seeing any pressure to step up structurally investment in North America, either from retailers or competitors, or otherwise, as you look forward and now have some added synergies coming from CCE?

MUHTAR KENT: I think, first, we got to see what it's -- it's really important to point out, Mark, that over the crisis in the depth of the crisis 2009 full year and this year, we have continued to invest heavily in our brands in North America.

It's really important that that be understood well. To the tune of -- if you take marketing and total CapEx of the bottling system, combined in 2009 number is around, north of $2.5 billion. This year, it will be getting close to maybe another sort of 10% higher than that in total. I'm talking about marketing, as well as CapEx investments in route-to-market, production, efficiency, IT, marketing, brands, all of that.

So again, I've said before, we cannot -- we have to really capitalize on this current economic crisis. And that's what you've seen us doing all around the world, including in the United States, and continue to invest in our brands, in our system, and that's paying off. That's paying off.

When you look at the whole world when we, again, globally, gained total value share and held volume share in the quarter, and that's a 13th consecutive quarter of value share gain globally. So you're seeing that paying off.

And as Gary said, most of these investments, a lot of these investments are coming from the system. We generate as a system north of $20 billion of cash, annually, $20 billion. And when we announce $5 billion in Mexico the next five years, $6 billion in Brazil for the next five years, $3 billion in China over '09, '10, and '11, these are system investment numbers that are driving our business.

Because you've heard me say before, it's critically important to judge the appetite of our bottling system for more territory and investments. And that is at an all-time high. And our brands are at an all-time high in terms of their current metrics around the world, including here in the United States.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And then -- that's helpful. And lastly, with corn having done what it's done in the last kind of two months or so, HFCS going up accordingly, do you plan a price increase to retailers here in North America this fall, before year end? Any thoughts on pricing to retail before we get to next year?

MUHTAR KENT: I think it's too early to judge any of that. We're just continuing to execute. I think you're seeing, a lot of volatility and international markets on both currency and on commodities. Commodity is somewhat driven by vagaries in the weather, but also driven by volatility in currencies, as you know, because commodities are priced in US dollars.

So we're looking at all of that. And we've seen this movie before and we'll certainly take appropriate measures to make sure that our business remains in health.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Fair enough. Thank you, guys.

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks. So with that, in closing, I would like to just say that we had a strong third quarter and remain on course to grow volume, revenue, share, and profits in 2010. The integration of our North America business is on track and our new operational structure in North America will accelerate our ability to build on our momentum in this marketplace.

So as we look ahead, we see tremendous opportunities for The Coca-Cola Company in all of our markets and geographies. We remain intently focused on working with our capable system partners to build our brand, execute our strategic priorities, and drive long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders. Thank you for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: And thank you for your participation in today's call. You may disconnect your line at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
ijuice : Fruit Juices | iegydrk : Sports/Energy Drinks | i483 : Plastics Products | i428 : Soft Drinks | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Products | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
cbrand : Branding | gcon : Consumer Affairs | cmarkr : Market Research | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c411 : Management Moves | c31 : Marketing | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | phlns : Philippines | norw : Norway | asiaz : Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | nordz : Nordic Countries | scandz : Scandinavia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101102e6aj000m9
  


 HD
 Q1  2010 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,321 words
   PD
20 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2010 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. (Operator Instructions) Participants will be announced by their name and company. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.

I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. Mr Kelly, you may begin.

   TD
JACKSON KELLY, VP AND DIRECTOR IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us again today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the reports and financial information tab and in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives and our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. With that, let me now turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by saying that I'm very pleased with our first quarter results. We once again delivered consistent, profitable and sustainable growth inspired by our 2020 vision and also fueled by our innovation in global reach. Despite ongoing challenges in global economic conditions, we continued to invest in our business and build our brands while generating strong and also steady cash flow. We are competing and winning around the world as one company with our global bottling partners, leveraging our unique scale as well as the increased presence of our brands.

As we announced earlier this quarter, we are taking decisive actions to strategically advance our North America business and further strengthen our franchise system in Europe. We remain confident in our ability to execute our 2020 vision thus laying the foundation for consistent long term sustainable growth. As I've mentioned on numerous occasions, we see tremendous growth opportunities for our system and for the entire non-alcoholic ready to drink beverage industry over the next 10 years and beyond. This past quarter, despite the lingering effects of the global recession, we delivered solid 9% operating income growth on a comparable currency neutral basis. Overall, global economic unit case volume grew a strong 3% with a significant number of international markets fueling this growth, and our growth in countries with a per capita of less than 150 was an exceptional 10%.

Let me take a moment to share in more detail our performance across our international markets. In Eurasia and Africa, we saw broad based growth of 11%. This increase was lead by India up a strong 29% and cycling 31% making this our seventh consecutive quarter of double digit growth in this fast growing nation. And while sustaining this high growth rate in India in the coming months will likely depend on weather patterns during the upcoming monsoon season, we're confident in our ability to deliver consistent double digit growth for the balance of this year. We also saw double digit growth in Turkey, Northwest Africa, Southern Eurasia and the Middle East. Notably, we are beginning to see sequential improvement in Russia, which was down 1% lead by the strong performance of brand Coca-Cola which grew 12% and gained share this quarter in Russia.

Latin America maintained its steady and consistent performance, up 4% overall driven by strong 12% growth in Brazil. Our Latin center unit was up double digits lead by Columbia, which grew 19%, while our South Latin unit was up mid single digits. Mexico, impacted by unseasonably cold weather, was down 2% but as the weather has improved this trend has reversed with our business generating positive growth in the month of March. And despite these weather challenges in the quarter, we continue to gain total non-alcoholic ready to drink beverage share in Mexico driven by both our sparkling and our still beverages.

Our Pacific Group continued to expand, up 5% in total and lead by double digit growth across Korea, Indonesia and several other markets. Our volume performance in Japan was a sequential improvement on our performance in the last two quarters down 3%. Despite ongoing economic headwinds we are experiencing steady improvement in the critical vending channel, as well as strong results in the convenience store channel. This lead to better performance for our Georgia coffee business. Our trademark Coca-Cola brands in Japan keep widening the gap against our primary competitor lead by Coca-Cola Zero, which was up 24% for the quarter. In fact, since 2005, we have grown trademark Coca-Cola incremental unit case volume in Japan five times more than our main competitor has grown its trademark brands over the same period, and our fast growing eco-friendly national mineral water brand launched last May is building on its market share leadership. In less than a year, it has become the number one packaged water brand in Japan.

China unit case volume grew 6%, including double digit growth in the latter half of the quarter. This performance comes on the heals of a strong fourth quarter and a great finish to 2009, which was lead by growth across our portfolio as well as new product launches. Over the past six month,s our volume grew a solid 16% and while we may see volume swings from quarter to quarter, this 16% growth over the past six months was the head of our primary international competitor. For perspective, our China business has generated more than 100 million incremental unit cases this past six months and continues to be twice the size of our primary international competitor on an annual basis, and we are building momentum across our entire portfolio. We are advancing our sparkling business in China behind strong innovations such as the launch of Spritea, which taps into the combined popularity of green tea and Sprite. We're expanding our winning still beverage business through the ongoing growth of our industry leading juice and juice drink beverages and our Minute Made pulpy super milky dairy brand, and we are kicking off an exciting new Hajime Tea portfolio launching Hajime Jasmine Tea. And we've shared before -- and as we have shared before, we are just getting started in China and remain resolute in our commitment to invest for the solid long term growth.

Now, moving to Europe. Despite the continuation of difficult economic conditions in Europe, our unit case volume growth was even for the quarter. This was an improvement over our 2009 full year results with growth across France, Belgium, the Netherlands and North Central Europe. Further, our Company owned bottlers in Europe grew well ahead of the region, with Germany up mid single digits and Nordics up low single digits as we built towards refranchising both of these operations. In the United Kingdom, we were pleased that our trademark Coca-Cola brands became the first to top the 1 billion-pound mark in annual UK grocery retail sales. We are excited about our recently announced increased investment in Innocent reflecting our belief in the long term growth potential of the smoothie business. Lastly, and in alignment with our 2020 vision, we recently reorganized our Europe business from 10 units, 10 business units to four making it easier for us to do business with our bottlers as well as partners as we gain significant scale, speed, and simplicity.

In total, these international performance results are a testament to our seasoned operating team, which is executing our 2020 vision quickly and also with great discipline. I can assure you that our strategy and focus to build the long term equity of our brands remains decisively clear. This focus is reflected in the volume and value share gains we continue to realize together with our bottling partners around the world. As a system, we are pulling together to communicate with our consumers, invest in our brands, and build for a better tomorrow.

Now, let me briefly explain each of these actions. First, communicating with our consumers. Last quarter, I highlighted some of the important global platforms we are leveraging in 2010 to communicate and connect with consumers around the world. We just concluded our successful Vancouver Olympics program, which helped improve trademark Coca-Cola brand equity scores with teens in Canada and these improvements are flowing to the bottom line as we have grown dollar share for trademark Coca-Cola and system revenue in Canada to their highest levels in years. Meanwhile, our FIFA World Cup trophy tour carries on with its journey all around the world. The Tour has now traveled to 27 international markets, engaging thousands of consumers and earning an average of $2 million of media value in each and every country visited. In addition, we are finding new and innovative ways to leverage our FIFA World Cup platform to more effectively communicate with consumers. For example, we launched POWERADE's first ever global marketing campaign, which includes an innovative online experience. A series of digital films highlight the functional benefits of POWERADE and also showcase a never ending football game played around the world. This campaign has already launched on YouTube in Brazil, Mexico, Italy, Spain and 16 more countries.

We're also teaming up with customers around the world to bring the passion and the excitement of the FIFA World Cup to life for our consumers. A great example is the marketing program we developed together with Wal-Mart, by using a jointly produced global toolkit, we will drive incremental sales for Wal-Mart and our Company while making the excitement of the World Cup more affordable and accessible for every day fans. Finally as the global partner of the 2010 World Exposition in Shanghai, we expect to host over 100 million visitors from China and around the world at our Coca-Cola Happiness Factory Pavilion, engaging consumers, customers and other key global stakeholders through an extensive marketing program that will be executed during this exciting 184 day event. So these are just a few examples of how we are connecting directly with our consumers across many, many nations in a way that only our Company, with our global footprint, can do.

Secondly, we are relentlessly focused on investing in our brands. Let me start with sparkling beverages where I have already highlighted some of the many countries where we experienced sparkling growth this quarter. Brand Coca-Cola grew in line with our worldwide volume. Coca-Cola unit case volume grew over 1 million unit cases in 24 different countries. We were very proud to see Diet Coke, for the first time since its introduction, tie for the number two brand position amongst all sparkling brands in the United States behind only Coca-Cola as reported in Beverage Digest last month. As for Coca-Cola Zero, it is still driving growth for us in every operating group, increasing double digits for the 16th consecutive quarter in North America and 7% on a worldwide basis. Just like we shared in our recent investor event, we intend to keep growing trademark Coca-Cola, the epicenter of our business, in 2010 and well beyond. And we're building on our track record successfully introducing cross-category innovations by launching several new beverages including Spritea in China, which I mentioned earlier, as well as Fanta White, a new sparkling lactic drink which will launch in Japan next week.

We are innovating and expanding our still beverages as well. We're launching new brand extensions across multiple markets such as Vitamin Water Zero in North America and Minute Made Nimbu Fresh Lemonade in India, both are gaining great momentum and traction. We're expanding our successful innovations across borders such as our pulpy juice drink innovation created under the Minute Made trademark in the Pacific and now also available under the del Valle trademark in Latin America. Altogether, our pulpy brands are now present in 12 countries. We also have plans in place to take Hugo, our juice and dairy innovation launched in Chile last year into markets in Latin America, other markets in Latin America later this year. We're leveraging best-in-class programs across borders, as in the case of Vitamin Water, where we are implementing a fully integrated 360-degree Summer program in almost all of our international markets. We are leveraging best practices from Canada, Great Britain, Japan and Mexico to insure excellence, consistency and impact for this great brand.

Thirdly, we're building for a better tomorrow, and are fully committed to growing in a sustainable and responsible way in partnership with our consumers, customers and communities. To the benefit of all our consumers, we're working in partnership with the first lady of the United States on a program to end childhood obesity in a generation. We've announced our clear on calories committment in support of the special effort. While I already highlighted an example of how we work in partnership with global customers, in the end the proof is in the results. That is why we were particularly pleased to see our business with our top 10 global retail customers grow mid single digits in volume and double digits in revenue in 2009, ahead of our total Company growth. Lastly, a great example of our efforts to support our communities is our launch of Odwalla's Haiti Hope, Mango juice drink in the United States. 100% of the profits of this beverage will go to support the development of a sustainable fruit industry and thousands and thousands of families in Haiti.

As we build these relationships for the future, stakeholders from around the world are recognizing our performance. In the past few weeks we've been honored to receive several acknowledgments. Fortune Magazine ranked us number 10 in their annual list of the world's most admired companies, number one overall in beverages and number one across multiple beverage industry attributes including innovation, financial soundness and social responsibility. Paris Interactive ranked us number eight on their annual list of most admired US companies as well as in the top five envision and leadership as well as financial performance. Corporate Social Responsibility Magazine ranked their 100 best corporate citizens for 2010 and rated us at number eight, ahead of all other beverage companies, and just this week, Business Week moved us up in their annual ranking of the world's most innovative companies positioning us as the most innovative consumer goods company in the world. Our eco-friendly [elohouse] bottle was recognized by both the Asian Marketing Effectiveness Festival, where we won their platinum award and Japan's Ministry of Environment which awarded us with their grand prize for global environment. And Wal-Mart named us their Supplier of the Year in China while 7/11's franchise system did the same in North America.

Staying in North America, our volume results declined 2% for the quarter, consistent with our 2009 results. Our unit case volume for sparkling beverages declined 1% in the quarter in North America showing sequential improvement. Our still beverages were down 2% for the quarter although we were able to still hold value share. Importantly, our newest billion dollar brand simply grew 26% in the quarter while strong POWERADE activity, driven by effective NCAA March Madness programs, helped drive volume and value share gains in the sports drinks category.

Now, let me turn to our biggest news of the quarter and update you on the great progress we've made since announcing our intention to acquire CCE's North America business. As previously announced, we have appointed Brian Kelley to lead the integration of the Coca-Cola Company's and CCE's North American operations. Brian's integration team announced internally last week consists of leaders from both the Coca-Cola Company and CCE whose operating credentials and knowledge of the North American market is second to none. I have the most -- I have the utmost confidence that this team will deliver on our integration goals.

Earlier today we also announced our post-integration leadership team for North America. Steve Cahillane, currently President of the North American business unit for CCE will assume the role of President and Chief Executive Officer of the new Coca-Cola Refreshments once the Company's acquisition of CCE North America has been successfully concluded. Sally Douglas will continue as President of Coca-Cola North America. Both Steve and Sandy, who have executed very effectively and in concert with each other for the past two years, will report directly to me. This will be the first time ever that our North American bottling can, fountain and juice businesses, will be produced, marketed and sold by an integrated 21st Century service organization. We're truly excited by this prospect. And as I've said before, we're taking decisive action in North America from a position of strength. I am excited that both Steve and Sandy, who have been so instrumental in driving positive change in North America, have agreed to lead our efforts to capture the great opportunity that this important marketplace has to offer.

Let me reiterate my fundamental view about our business in North America. Growing here is not optional. It is essential to the health and future of our entire global system and if you look at the external forces shaping our 2020 vision, especially changing demographics, North America is at the heart of many of these trends. The US population is growing and will increase by over 30 million by 2020, out pacing the absolute population gains fast growing countries like Brazil, Egypt and Indonesia. And with over 30 million teens in 2020, the teen population of the United States is projected to be greater than that of Brazil, Mexico, Egypt and Vietnam. Clearly there is great opportunity in our North America business across our entire portfolio and particularly with trademark Coca Cola. Today, our favorite brand scores are higher than they've been in over a decade. We believe innovative marketing, merchandising, strong execution and clear communications will be the key to restoring trademark Coca-Cola growth in North America, just like we were able to successfully bring back growth to Coke in Japan and the United Kingdom.

The acquisition of CCE's North American business and the refranchising of our European operations are consistent with our 2020 vision. This evolution in our business will give us the financial flexibility and marketing and distribution leadership required to accelerate our business in North America and Western Europe, while also strengthening the long term health of our franchise system. As we work to create the world's premier, low cost and effective beverage manufacturing and distribution business, one with a fully empowered and centralized national sales organization, we are confident these actions will result in greater value for our shareholders.

Let me close by saying that it is clear that consumers are not yet out of this crisis and still remain confused due to the extended economic headwinds around the world. Therefore, given this environment, there still maybe bumps along the way this year and we may continue to experience some quarter to quarter volatility. That said, we confidently stand behind our long term growth targets and intend to keep winning together in 2010 growing volume, share, and profits. As we look ahead, we firmly believe that there is no better business to be in than the non-alcoholic ready to drink beverage industry, and we remain intently focused on creating shareholder value. With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. As Muhtar indicated, we're off to a good start in 2010 delivering consistent sustainable and quality volume and profit growth in line -- excuse me, I've got a cold and from the pollen here, so you'll hear my voice -- in line with our long term growth targets. Our first quarter results are a clear indication that we have the right leadership in place with the right strategic plans and capabilities to achieve these goals. One quick reminder and as highlighted during our last earnings call, our comparable results for this quarter reflect the impact of the deconsolidation of certain entities, primarily bottlers, due to changes in accounting guidance as per FASB requirements. To facilitate comparisons we will post details of all of these adjustments by quarter on our Investor Relations website later this week.

As outlined in our release, we reported comparable earnings per share of $0.80, up 23% versus prior year. For the quarter, comparable currency neutral operating income was up 9%. Further, our business delivered comparable net revenue growth up 7% driven by a 3% increase in concentrate sales and a 6% positive currency impact, partially offset by geographic mix. As anticipated and as we indicated in our last earnings call, we continue to see many of our emerging markets recovering from the global recession at a quicker rate than our developed markets, resulting in continued pressure on our geographic or country mix at a consolidated level. This is a natural outcome for a company like ours with such an extensive global footprint.

At the same time, we effectively executed our revenue growth management initiatives to realize positive pricing. This enabled us to grow global value share for the 11th consecutive quarter while maintaining global volume share for the quarter. These results reflect our continued effort, focus and committment to win in every market as we come out of this global crisis. Our objectives remain steadfast, strengthened the health of our brands and drive share gains. We anticipate that our positive revenue strategies will be offset by geographic mix, therefore, as we said in the last earnings call, we expect our price mix to be even for the full year. As we also said in that call, we would expect to see a return to positive price mix over the long term, the global consumer sentiment steadily improves. As for our cash flow from operations, this increased 52% in the quarter to $1.3 billion. This growth was primarily driven by our improved performance and the cycling of a pension funding of about $200 million in the prior year.

Now let me explain some of the factors impacting our quarterly results and full year trends. Our comparable currency neutral cost of goods was down 3% for the quarter as a result of the shifts in mix. On a full year basis, we would expect our cost of goods to grow in a more normalized low single digit range. comparable currency neutral SG&A expenses were down 1% in the quarter. This reflects the timing of marketing expenses and it also reflects the continued benefits of our productivity initiatives, which we have pursued on an ongoing basis for the past two and a half years. We anticipate our full year operating expense leverage will come in in the low single digits.

Next I want to call out two items related to North America. First, related to the CCE transaction, our integration planning has progressed quickly and in an orderly fashion under the leadership of Brian Kelley and his team. As Muhtar mentioned before, we're excited about the continued leadership both from Steve Cahillane and Sandy Douglas that they will bring to our North American business. As for the approval process for the transaction, we have not experienced any delays and still expect a early fourth quarter close. Second and as part of our ongoing work to strengthen our economic profits in North America, we've made a strategic decision to exit the low margin retail spring water segment of the water category. Accordingly, we have eliminated the retail spring and customer brand water volume from our reported volume for both 2010 and 2009. This change did not have any impact on either the Company or North America's reported volume results this quarter.

Now let me take a moment to provide our outlook and some of the other key factors we see impacting this year. As expected, we benefited from currency in the first quarter. We still believe currencies will have a slightly positive impact on operating income for the full year with this benefit weighted towards the first half of the year. On productivity, we're on track to deliver $500 million in annual savings from our initiatives by the end of 2011. And lastly, with regard to share repurchase, let me reaffirm that while we are out of the market until we close the transaction with CCE, we are still committed to repurchasing at least $1.5 billion of the Company's stock in 2010.

In conclusion, we're only just beginning to emerge from the global recession and expect the recovery to be moderate as consumer outlook slowly improves, and our seasoned management team is clearly taking the right actions, executing the right strategies in this global environment to drive our business for the long term and build on our track record of success. We remain confident and will continue gaining global share while enhancing the health of our brands in order to drive long term profitable growth and value for our shareholders. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everybody. Gary, I just wanted to follow-up on the price mix, you still see it even on the full year. So just looking at Q1, was it just a matter of some of the timing and the laps? I know it's your toughest compare, you're lapping 2% price mix from year ago and then it deteriorated as the year went on, but if you could help us understand how much the geographic mix versus underlying price or product mix impacted the quarter and why it's getting better balance of year, again is it just the comps? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, thanks, Bill. A couple of different things. One is what we're cycling, but more importantly, it is a combination of a couple things. One is obviously we're getting significant growth from our emerging markets and when those markets, which are lower margin, grow faster, you're going to get some negative pressure from geographic mix, and at the same time our pricing mix was actually positive in the quarter. But the other impact that is totally timing and giving me a lot of confidence on where we'll come back, even for the full year, is that as I look at the different markets around the world and I look at the timing of gallon shipments of concentrate, while gallons and cases were pretty much in line for the quarter, within certain high margin countries, Japan, the US, South Africa, for example, the gallons were behind cases and this is a quarter where normally the bottlers would be stocking up getting ready for the Summer season. Those are natural timings. Those will reverse and so that gives me a lot of confidence that as we look at the price mix, it's going to come back, we think even for the full year.

BILL PECORIELLO: Great. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Marc Greenberg with Deutsche Bank.

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. My question relates to Japan, which has been soft for some time. I appreciate that you're gaining share and that new products are driving volumes, but trends still remain negative. How should we think about the longer term expectations for Japan and how might that impact the mix over time for the portfolio?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Marc, thank you. I think no question that Japan remains a very challenging environment from a macroeconomic point of view, but also from a demographic point of view, but also, we have a tremendous business in Japan, tremendous partners in Japan and we are, as you know, busy trying to leverage the scale in Japan and trying to put together productivity measures in Japan that we can then refocus on further investments in our brands. So I expect Japan to remain challenged, but I think we see some improvements in the at work market in Japan, in the vending channel in Japan compared to let's say eight, nine, 10 months ago. We're gaining share in Japan, particularly in the ready to drink coffee, very critical ready to drink coffee segment category and our sparkling beverages are very healthy in Japan. Coca-Cola Zero continues to do really well and also some new product introductions also continue to do very well. It's a very complex market. Coca-Cola Zero, as I said, was up about 24%, but you can look at Japan as in the following mindset. Japan will remain challenged but we expect that there will be some sequential improvements going forward.

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next is Wendy Nicholson with Citi Investment Research.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, could you talk about the shift in the timing of the marketing spending that you referred to in North America? I was surprised by that given the Olympics and Super Bowl. So where is the incremental and higher level of spending coming over the balance of the year and how significant is that? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, thanks, Wendy. This is Gary. You know that we're on a sales curve and so we recognize marketing over the year and really what you're seeing impact in the first quarter is that the way our marketing was spread last year, it's what we're cycling. So you're seeing the reported marketing pretty much even in the quarter, but it's going to be up in the mid single digits or more for the year, and so you'll see that shift starting in Q2, 3, and 4 but it's really a matter of what we're cycling, and nothing more than that.

WENDY NICHOLSON: And in terms of the mix of the spending, obviously I assume you're spending heavily behind Simply, but where else is incremental spending coming over the balance of the year?

GARY FAYARD: Well, again, we're spending right on what we had budgeted to spend. It's really how it's being recorded and what we're cycling versus the prior year. So we're having marketing increases in spending across all the geographies around the world. The largest increases obviously would have been in Vancouver with the Olympics, but particularly the Summer with FIFA World Cup, but that's in the spread as well across the year.

WENDY NICHOLSON: Great. Thank you so much.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala and he's with Goldman Sachs -- or he is with UBS.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, I'm with UBS, hi, everybody. I guess, two questions. First roughly 2% impact on revenues from the accounting changes, that's roughly what we should expect for the rest of the year? And then second question on productivity, how much of it was in the quarter and how far along are you, obviously you're confident in hitting $500 million by the end of 2011, but how far have we gone so far?

MUHTAR KENT: Hello, Kaumil. Let me just reference productivity and then I'll pass it on to Gary about the first part of your question. On productivity, I think we're seeing benefits of not just this past few months of work, but also the work that we've put into place over the last 24 even 30 months and this is obviously a long term, very long term, but also very important and effective project. And I'd say that we are on target with realizing our goals through 2010, but also putting into place all of the necessary work that will assure that we realize also our goals in 2011, and as you know, the target is $500 million by 2011.

GARY FAYARD: And on the accounting changes, Kaumil, that's why I mentioned that we're going to put details out by quarter and for the year out on the website later this week, and what we realized is some people, when they had modeled it didn't get it exactly right. So it is 3% impact in the quarter on consolidated revenues, but then there's intercompany eliminations, so it's actually 2% net of the eliminations, 2% on operating income, and 0% at pre-tax income or net income, because you come back to exactly the same place. But, it was up about $115 million reduction in net revenue in the quarter from the deconsolidation of those bottlers.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it. Thank you, Gary.

OPERATOR: Next is Christine Farkas with Banc of America.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much, good morning. I'm hoping to dive into North America a little bit. Correct me if I'm wrong, but this is the first quarter I've seen where sparkling outperformed still beverages and I'm wondering if mix had something to do with your margin improvement or if there were other factors? And speaking to the still beverages, certainly cycling a strong POWERADE comp, but can you talk about some of the other non-water still beverages and the performance in the quarter? Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Christine. You're right in pointing that out and I think we're also pleased with that and that is the testimony to, not only again work that's being done in this past quarter but the work that we've been doing in our brands and strengthening our brands particularly sparkling brands. The investments that are going into sparkling brands for the last year and a half, and again, our brand metrics for our sparkling brands are healthier than we've seen them in many, many years, Coca-Cola Zero again had a very very strong quarter in the United States. And again, still tremendous room to grow in the United States going forward. So I think packaging is working. Our $0.99 single serve is working. The contourization that is in now of more than 50% of the country and getting tremendous distribution coverage is working very well. So all of those programs that we've put into place last year and even at the end of 2008 are beginning to bear fruit, so that's why we see an improving landscape in the sparkling category in the United States and our brands in that category.

As far as still beverages are concerned, I think sports POWERADE, again cycling a very strong prior year quarter at double digits growth from last year, grew this year which was very pleasing. We, I think gained volume and value share in the juice and juice drinks category as expansion of Simply Orange and both packaging and cold channel lead to another quarter of double digit growth which was very pleasing. And again, we also made the strategic decision to exit the lower margin retail spring water segment of the water category and accordingly we've eliminated the retail spring and customer brand water volume from our reported results for 2010, as well as 2009. And I can reiterate this change did not impact either the Company's or our North America's reported volume results this quarter. Again, I think Vitamin Water, we're very excited with the changes we've made, new product innovation of Vitamin Water Zero as well as packaging, as well as advertising and we expect to deliver stronger results through the balance of the year with again that strong brand. Our energy brand NOS continued to grow very effectively in the quarter, as well as also our Smart Water. So I think overall, those are the sort of important points that I'd like to make about our North American business that you asked, Christine.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thanks for that, Muhtar. I'm just wondering if on the Philippines the momentum has continued and you saw positive growth in the first quarter?

MUHTAR KENT: I'd say I think all of the hard work our BIG group is doing in the Philippines is beginning to pay dividends and I'm pleased, although not excited, because I think there's still room for improvement.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next is Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hello. Thanks, good morning. Muhtar, one is a quick follow-up in terms of North America. You've talked about sparkling being down 1% in the fourth quarter. How much of that was really category getting better and maybe you can talk about your volume and value share performance, specifically in sparkling in North America in the quarter.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, I think if you look at -- we have certainly had good results in our value share in North America in sparkling and I'm pleased with that. I think the category -- it's too early to say whether the category is beginning to improve. All I can tell you is that our food service business, our fountain business, which is a great Litmus test for consumer sentiment, we are seeing some -- we saw some improvement in the latter half of the quarter but again, as I referenced to Christine's question, it's really important to understand that these packaging changes and also our open happiness campaign, our branding, our connection with the Olympics property in the quarter, all of that played very well into our brands and again, our brands are getting healthier. Our packaging, as I said, is working 50% coverage in the entire United States on our contourization for two liter. The pricing for two liter, again, versus the single serves are in a much better place than it was back 18 months ago. All of that is beginning to show -- the logic of all of that is beginning to pay dividends.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and then just in terms of Europe, Germany clearly second quarter in a row where volume was up pretty nicely here. Can you talk about what's been driving the improvement in that market? And then moving to the UK, we've heard the weather was not really great in that market in the first quarter, so how did volume do in terms of the UK, because I don't think you gave us the volume number for the UK market.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, UK was slightly down, but I think really important to understand is about Germany is what is happening in Germany has got nothing to do with this past quarter or this past year. Germany was not a market that needed to be fixed. Germany as you know, it took us years to try to insure that we could put the right structure in Germany. We closed the deal finally and then in 2006 and we've been busy putting ourselves to work to get Germany right. So it's really important to understand that this is not a program that suddenly came into being last quarter or last year. We've been working on getting Germany right.

Is Germany right? I'd say probably more than certainly 50% right and I am confident that going -- looking into the future, Germany is going to start yielding some good dividends as we move towards franchising Germany in the period that we've announced. But think of it along the same lines as what we're doing in the United States. These are long term programs that we commit ourselves to fixing major markets. Germany was a big one internationally and now we see it's on the way to repair and it's finally in the right home.

JUDY HONG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: And the next question comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan Chase.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Yes, thanks. A quick question, on the North America volume, I apologize for following up on this, Muhtar, you said it didn't affect the -- the loss of the spring water business didn't affect the volume numbers. Is that because you excluded it from both years or was that because it was so small that it was just less than 1%?

MUHTAR KENT: Because we excluded it from both years, but Gary can give you more details on that, but the answer is we excluded it from both years.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, we excluded it from both years, but it's very small and did not impact the volume growth rate of North America at all. It's less -- on a full year basis, it's less than 1% of North America.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, great, and then going back to the Japan question that Marc had and I guess as we look at the price mix in the Pacific, how much of the price mix issue, you talked about the strength of CSDs, how much of the price mix issue in Asia is related to lower non-carb volumes, this strategic push into CSDs and the channel mix that entails? And I guess is that one of the mix problems that we should expect to improve over the next couple quarters or is that one going to take a little bit longer? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, John, I think it's more related also to the channel in Japan and the channel was under tremendous pressure this time last year and remained under tremendous pressure for all of 2009. And as I mentioned in an earlier comment, we see beginnings of some light there in the very critical vending channel and I think that is much more critical to the revenue and to the NSR than the different product categories.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, and then --

MUHTAR KENT: Also CVS I think we're beginning to see some really good developments, positive developments in the CVS channel as well, but I think vending, which is a really critical channel is beginning to show some improved lights.

JOHN FAUCHER: And then one follow-up there, which is when you look at that impact, whether it's the channel piece or the mix from non-carbs into CSDs, how much of the global mix decline do you think that is? Is that a small piece or is that a pretty sizeable piece, just the Japan portions?

MUHTAR KENT: I would say on a global basis it's not that sizeable.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg, with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, good morning everyone. Muhtar, on Mexico, could you give us some more color on the performance in the quarter including that sequential improvement and share with us more on your outlook for Mexico?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think first, again, the portfolio is working very well in the Company. I just want to reiterate as I get into the Mexico details, because in a quarter where Mexico was down and a quarter where China grew mid single digits, we achieved a strong, I may add, organic 3% plus growth in our global volume. And I think that's a testimony to how well we're doing all across the world and our brands are doing all across the world and our investment programs are paying off all over the world. So that's point number one. Number two, on Mexico, very, very unseasonable weather and I think essentially we have seen improved results, positive rates of growth in the latter part of the quarter and I think that leads me to believe that we will get back to trends in Mexico.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Next is Lauren Torres with HSBC.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. Another market you mentioned a sequential improvement was Russia. so I was curious, coming off a rather difficult year last year what kind of changes are you seeing in that market this year and I think maybe also central and Eastern Europe some similar comments may apply. so if you could just give more color on what you're seeing with respect to the recovery in those Markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Lauren, I think I see it this way. Russia always comes back -- goes deeper and comes back quicker and with more rigor and so therefore, that's what we're going to see I believe in Russia. It will come back and you'll see it more market return of the Russian consumers back to their normal habits, I believe in the coming year or so and I think that the return to normalcy in Eastern Europe is going to take a little longer, although Eastern Europe didn't go down as far as Russia. So I think those are the comments. I think Russia already, after as you said a very difficult consumer environment in 2009 where we saw double digit declines for the whole CPG sector, is beginning to show, again, positive developments where we're almost even in the quarter in Russia minus one. And we grew -- importantly grew trademark Coca-Cola double digits in Russia, which, as I said, was pleasing for me. So as we go into the Summer and Russia, again is a very seasonal dependent market, I believe that we will see sequential improvement in both the sentiment of the consumer in Russia, the spending of the consumer in Russia, and also our business.

LAUREN TORRES: And could I also ask in Europe, your volumes were even in the quarter and you highlighted a lot of markets that are improving, where was the particular weakness that just got you to flat volumes in Europe and not seeing an improvement in that region?

MUHTAR KENT: Well I can't give you anymore details, but I can tell you the following, that certainly Eastern Europe, Southeast Europe was not as strong as some of those markets that we referenced. Same continues to be challenged, for example.

LAUREN TORRES: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Next is Caroline Levy with CLSA.

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Just want to dig into number one, market share in North America just to make sure, it seems that you did lose overall market share in North America even though you gained in stills and I'm just wondering why you think that might have happened.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, Caroline, first I think as far as North America is concerned, we have essentially, in terms of our value share in the quarter in sparkling, we lost a little bit of value share in the full quarter as we looked into our volume share in North America. Again, we had slight losses in sparkling and also in still. And I think that is, again, a result of our discipline and pricing in the United States and what we saw is a bigger loss of share in the beginning of the quarter and some of that share was coming back in the -- latter part of the share gains were coming back in the latter part of the quarter to result in slightly down share in both volume and value and in both still and sparkling.

CAROLINE LEVY: And do you expect reverse that and are you saying it's a function of a widening price gap versus the competition?

MUHTAR KENT: No, I think as I said, it was the difference between the first half of the quarter and the second half. Volume share decline was mainly due to aggressive, very aggressive competitive pricing in the beginning of the quarter, bottling and so forth, as well as pricing but I think CCNA and CCE continue to focus on building consumer and customer value through strong brands. And we are -- we see tremendous value from being disciplined in our future pricing between our future consumption and our immediate consumption channels and I think, therefore, that we anticipate also that the industry will return definitely to rational pricing through the balance of the year and we've seen some of that also in the latter half of the quarter.

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you and then in China, your comps actually get much harder, your comparisons as you move through the year. So do you think this is perhaps a year where we should not expect double digit volume growth in China?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, first, Caroline, I think China remains -- continues to remain the most important growth market for the Company and I think through the end of 2009 as you saw, we held double digits in China. It's been 26 consecutive quarters since 2003 until the end of 2009 and during that time, 2003 to 2009, our base grew threefold, almost to 1.8 billion cases, or over 400 billion servings per annum, and having said that, I think China remains -- we all know that China remains a complex, rapidly changing market, but I can reiterate one thing. Our brands, our investment, our innovation platforms remain very healthy and I would say that we would be disappointed if we would not continue to achieve double digit growth on an annual basis in China going forward. And if you view our business in China over the past six months our volume averaged at 16% growth over the last six months, very consistent with same prior year period and this is very similar to what you would have seen also if you compared quarter four of 2008 versus quarter one of 2009.

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you, just last question for Gary. Currency looks like it took, it added $0.05. So it would have been $0.75 without the currency benefit, is that right?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, that's about right Caroline.

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Alice Longley, from Buckingham Research.

ALICE LONGLEY, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, good morning. My question is about price mix and I think you've talked about it in the Pacific. Could you talk about Latin America and Eurasia Africa, it was, I think, 10% in Latin America. Is that likely to persist through the year and the negative 5% in Eurasia Africa, could you talk about that?

GARY FAYARD: Sure. I'd say a couple of things. In Latin America, we got very strong price mix of 10 points and that's both in pricing mix and geographic mix. So everything was positive in Latin America and I don't know if it will continue at that kind of pace. I don't think anyone should expect that you could continue that forever, but Latin America is doing extremely well across all of the metrics and particularly as we see Mexico coming back some, we would expect to see very positive results that we have in Latin America through the remainder of this year. On Eurasia and Africa, there was a negative five points price mix there. It is primarily driven by geographic mix of higher growth in Northern Africa, for example, lower sales in South Africa, but as I mentioned the concentrate sales are behind cases in South Africa, which is what's driving that. I would expect that to reverse in the remainder of the year and so a lot of that will start coming back.

ALICE LONGLEY: Excellent. So that price mix could actually turn positive ahead?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, it could.

ALICE LONGLEY: Okay, good. Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks, Alice. Thank you, Gary and Jackson. In closing, the actions taken this quarter as well as our management teams continued performance track record gives us confidence in our Company today and our path to 2020. We will continue to generate strong cash flow and redeploy that cash to both growing our business and rewarding our shareholders. We are investing alongside our system and leveraging our global franchise network to win consistently and sustainably around the world.

At the same time, we're committed to delivering consistent value to our shareowners through regular dividend payments and share repurchase programs. We will execute flawlessly on our 2020 vision by working closely with our global bottling partners, our employees, our customers, and all our key stakeholders. As I said, we see tremendous opportunity ahead for the Coca-Cola Company in all our markets and remain intently focused on partnering across our system, to execute our strategic priorities and generate long term sustainable growth. And most of all, we thank you for your interest in investment in our Company. There's no greater responsibility than earning your trust and confidence. So rest assured we're working tirelessly to keep our commitments and grow the value of your investment in our Company. Thank you for joining us this morning.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your line at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i428 : Soft Drinks | ijuice : Fruit Juices | ihtwoo : Bottled Water | iegydrk : Sports/Energy Drinks | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
gcon : Consumer Affairs | cbrand : Branding | cmarkr : Market Research | e1105 : Consumer Sentiment | m11 : Equity Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100504e64k000m9
  


 HD
 Q3  2009 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,280 words
   PD
20 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2009 earning results conference call.

Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be on a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions). Participants will be announced by their name and company. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.

And now I would like to introduce Mr. Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

JACKSON KELLY, VP, DIRECTOR OF IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today.

I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for questions. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecocacolacompany.com under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the Investor section which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning, and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our website for this information.

Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson. And good morning, everyone.

I am pleased to report that the fundamentals of our business remain strong. We continue to both grow and invest in our business while generating a strong and steady cash flow. We have built a solid foundation, allowing us to focus on executing a consistent set of strategic priorities with our bottling partners. And we are continuing to deliver consistent sustainable growth. During the third quarter, key international markets delivered significant volume growth with China up 15%, India up 37%, Mexico up 9, and Brazil up 3, yielding strong total international unit case volume growth of 4%, cycling 7% growth in the prior year quarter. Total worldwide unit case volume increased 2%, cycling 5%, despite the continued effects of the global recession across several key geographies including North America, Europe, Japan and Russia.

In these and other markets, strong macro economic headwinds continue to impact consumer spending, and therefore the entire consumer goods sector. Despite this we consistently delivered quality results above and below the line. On a comparable currency neutral basis, net revenues excluding structural changes have increased 3% for this quarter and 5% year-to-date. Operating income has increased 9% for both the quarter as well as year-to-date. As a result, despite the challenging economic environment I am pleased to say that we have achieved our revenue and profit targets for the first nine months of the year and we remain committed to our long-term growth model going forward. We know that during difficult economic times consumer, consumers gravitate toward and reward the brands they know, the brands they love and trust. That is why we were pleased to see Coca-Cola once again recognized as the world's number one brand in the last business week Interbrand list of Best Global Brands. Our brand value increased at a time when the overall value of the top 100 brands declined for the first time in this studies history.

Further, we recently received our first ever Emmy award for the Coca-Cola Open Happiness television commercial. Year-to-date we now, we have now launched our Open Happiness campaign successfully in markets representing over 80% of Coca-Cola volume with encouraging results. Cultivating love for our brand is translating into winning in the marketplace with brand Coca-Cola growing 2% total volume for the quarter. In fact we continued to outperform the industry across many of our key categories and geographies. We once again grew total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink volume and value share making this the ninth consecutive quarter of winning global share. Further we continue to drive solid volume growth with our top ten global retail customers, without sacrificing value share in the process. This is the result of strong customer service, value-creating programs, and execution of market specific brand pack and pricing architectures all around the world. It is clear that global economic challenges have impacted people in every market around the world.

As I have said before, no single consumer has been immune to these challenges as we anticipate these economic pressures will continue to weigh on consumers through 2010. However, it is also just as clear that our Company's focus on a consistent set of strategic initiatives is proving successful. We are operating with realism about current challenges but remain excited about our global opportunities ahead of us. In the short term, not unlike the rest of the industry, we remain challenged by the timing of the consumer recovery across markets but we also see a growing opportunity to leverage the strength of our brands, as well as our geographic footprint to drive share gains and position our system for profitable sustainable growth.

In the long-term, we remain very positive about the broader global macro trends and can say with confidence that there is no better growth business to be in than the nonalcoholic ready-to-drink business. Our seasoned leadership team and our strong bottling partners are focused on investing together for growth to achieve our 20/20 vision. You have heard me speak about our 20/20 vision in previous communications. We will continue to expand upon it throughout this year, including at our upcoming investor and analyst event in Atlanta which we all look forward to.

We are focused on executing against three consistent strategies. First, driving global beverage leadership. Second, leveraging our balanced geographic footprint and strengthening system capability. Let me go into more detail on each of these strategies and how they continue to support our growth and solid results this quarter. First, driving global beverage leadership. Our business starts with growing sparkling beverages, particularly trademark Coca-Cola. Everyone of our key markets has Coca-Cola recruitment strategies in their plans. While I previously mentioned that brand Coca-Cola grew total volume 2% for the quarter, Coca-Cola Zero grew 7% in the quarter and 10% year-to-date, while trademark Sprite was up 4% in both the quarter and year-to-date.

Further, we are continuing to drive global beverage growth in our 120 countries with per capita consumption of less than 150. For the third quarter in these countries, we grew total beverage volume by 6%, cycling 10%, and sparkling beverage volume by 4%, cycling 8%. We are also focused on faster still beverage expansion, with our still beverage unit case volume increasing 7% in the quarter driven by the organic growth of our mega brands and continued expansion of our recent strategic acquisitions. Internationally, still beverages are up 10%, led by 21% growth in Latin America, driven by our expansion of our Jugos del Valle business across the entire region. We have also expanded the footprint of our Glaceau vitaminwater brand which is now live across 50 [influential] cities in a total of 12 international markets. Overall our total global still beverage portfolio gained volume and value share driven by our strong share performance in global juice, tea, sports drinks, enhanced water and energy brands. These were complimented by the successful launch of several new products.

For example, we just launched our Minute Maid healthy dairy drink in China, a mixture of fruit juice, milk and coconut bits that will be sold across the entire country by the end of this year. So these are just a few of the many ways that we are meeting our consumers evolving needs through new innovative and differentiated brands. Our global beverage leadership effort is supported by our world class innovation and marketing programs enabling us to build real brand value and win at the point-of-sale with our consumers. From an innovation perspective our Coca-Cola design progress was featured in the October issue of Fast Company magazine as part of their Masters of Design recognition program. We will - - we will highlight more of our latest invasions at our upcoming Investor and Analysts event in Atlanta. I want to also call out a few examples of how we are creating value through our marketing programs and proprietary global partnerships.

First, we are leveraging existing global partnerships to connect directly with our consumers. For example we have just launched our feedback division program, including a 225 day, 86 country FIFA World Cup Trophy tour. Simultaneously we are well into our preparations for the upcoming Winter Olympics in Vancouver, including the launch of our Olympic Torch Relay event. Second, we are expanding our strategic sponsorship and marketing alliances as in the case of our recently announced agreement with Live Nation. Coca-Cola has a long history of connecting with consumers through their passion for music. So it makes perfect sense for Live Nation, the worlds largest concert promoter and Coca-Cola to team up and Open Happiness across Live Nation venues. Third, shifts in our marketing and media spin strategies are enabling us to communicate effectively and stay even more relevant with today's consumers. Specifically, we are increasingly spending more in point-of-sale marketing and activation programs. For example, in Europe, we have shifted more marketing dollars toward in-store activation, and improving shelf impact by our on-pack and point-of-sale promotions and shopper marketing activities like loyalty point programs, sampling and gifts with purchases.

Further, in North America we have increased our overall in-store direct investments. In addition, we have co-invested with our bottlers to accelerate our ability to offer consumers affordable value and inspiring new products and packages that meet their needs while creating value for our system and for our customers. We believe these strategies represent value-creating ways to engage in and win consumers within the four walls of the consumer customer outlets. Importantly, we have sustained our overall direct marketing spend in 2009, while also increasing our overall marketing effectiveness. We can confidently state that we have continued to invest heavily in building our brands with consumers.

Now let me turn to our second strategy that is driving our growth. Leveraging our balanced geographic footprint. As I shared with many of you earlier this year at [tagnee], we view our global markets falling into one of three growth segments; emerging, developing, and developed. We are actively managing our strategies to effectively grow our markets across each and all of these segments. In emerging markets our strategic focus is on driving consumption. As such our strategies are primarily focused on maximizing volume and investing in infrastructure. Some of these markets have been more insulated from the global recession than others, while some are experiencing a more volatile recovery. Accordingly, our quarterly results mirror these different paths to recovery.

One emerging market that continues to accelerate rapidly for us is India which saw outstanding 37% growth, gaining volume and value share across all categories in which we sale our brands. Another emerging market, China, was up a solid 15% for the quarter, driven by our continued direct investments in the country, a strong push behind sparkling beverages and a simultaneous building of scale for still beverages. In fact, our overall portfolio in China has achieved solid double-digit growth for the last 25 consecutive quarters. We are consistently growing faster than our nearest global competitor and we are now more than twice their size in volume. We are the clear sparkling category leader in China. In still beverages in China, we have now attained leadership in the juice and juice drinks category and our overall still portfolio is seven times the size of our nearest global competitor. One emerging market where consumers continue to be challenged by a weak economy is Russia. However we are continuing to win absolute share. We remain positive about the long-term growth opportunities for us in this critical market and will continue to invest for long-term growth.

Turning now to developing markets, this segment represents important value growth opportunities for our Company. As such our focus is on maximizing value and building consumer loyalty. We continue to see the benefits of this strategy across many key developing markets, particularly in Latin America, up 7% this quarter. Mexico, as I said was up 9%, led by an 8% increase for brand Coca-Cola. Argentina and Brazil both grew 3% and Chile, grew 2%. Similarly other developing markets up are also growing including Thailand, up 5% in the quarter and 7% year-to-date, and Vietnam, up 12% and 11% year-to-date.

Finally, let me turn to more developed markets such as Japan, Europe and North America. Here consumers are experiencing a reset in terms of how they view the marketplace. We believe it is going to take a while for the consumers psyche to settle to a new normal. In these markets, we are focused on sustaining our brands as the most relevant and valuable proposition for consumers. And while absolute performance in these markets remains challenging, we continue to capture real value and volume share gains. First in Japan, this quarters performance was impacted by the severe economic challenges as well as unfavorable weather. That said, we still outperformed the industry gaining share in both the important supermarket and convenience channels and making this the sixth consecutive quarter of share gain for our business in Japan.

While the vending channel remains a challenge we have successfully executed marketing programs and segmented strategies, driving consumer enjoyment of our beverages. As a result we were pleased to see growth restored to our Georgia coffee brand this quarter driven by both new flavors in the low calorie segment and our successful new Welcome to Georgia campaign. Second, our Europe volume remained soft in the quarter driven by weak economic conditions across the region, while cycling 3% prior-year growth. Despite these headwinds we see growth reemerging in several key European marketplaces including Belgium, Netherlands, France and Italy, all up low to mid-single digits and Germany up 1%. In total we gained market share in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages in all key markets. This is notable considering the strong competitive pressure from Bee brands and private label brands in Europe, and demonstrates the resiliency and value proposition of our powerful brands.

Finally, as expected, North America volume was impacted by the shift of the July 4th holiday into the second quarter, as well as by deep competitive still beverage discounting in the back half of the quarter. While total North American beverage industry performance remained soft this quarter, we outperformed the industry on value share while holding volume share on a year-to-date basis. Let me take a moment to remind you of how we continue taking action to restore growth in North America. Our North America sparkling business is focused on reminding consumers why they love our brands and providing them with the right size to enjoy our brands in new and relevant ways. Last quarter - - last quarter I highlighted how our $0.99 cold contour bottle is providing consumers with affordable value and our system and customers with profitable growth.

A couple of more examples today include the expansion of our two liter contour bottle which today represents almost 40% of our US two liter volume as well as recent introduction of our new 90 calorie sleek mini can that provides consumers another great choice. These actions are representative of our ongoing efforts to correct the brand pack price architecture in North America to drive results today and sustainable growth for the long-term. As for Coca-Cola Zero it continues to deliver registering double-digit volume growth for the 14th consecutive quarter. In still beverages, our portfolio grew volume share for the ninth consecutive quarter and value share for the fourth consecutive quarter. An example of how we continue to win across our North American still beverage portfolio is the growth of our Simply brand, which we believe is on the path to becoming our next billion dollar brand. We recently expanded our offerings to include chilled single-service packages which now account for four of the top five fastest selling single-serve juice offerings in both supermarkets as well as convenience retail as measured by Nielsen.

Lastly, we have made excellent progress as a system these past two years not just in addressing our brand portfolio but also our system economic model, alternative routes to market and customer governance. On this last topic of customer governance, bottlers representing over 99% of US volume have just signed a customer governance agreement for joint business planning and execution with large retail customers. This demonstrates how we are working with our system to create healthy value-creating relationships with our customers. One theme, Company and bottler, one face, one unified value story.

Finally, let me address how we continue to strengthen our total system capability. Our strong cash flow and profitability continue to enable us to make strategic investments in our business with significant long-term return potential. This past quarter I've had the opportunity to travel across many of our key markets and visit with our bottling system partners as we jointly explore real investment opportunities, for the long-term sustainable growth. These include China, where we are investing 2 billion over the next three years. Just last week we announced the opening of a new $88 million still beverages plant in Wuhan in the heart of China, to meet growing consumer demand. Mexico, where we opened a new state of the art Jugos del Valle plant and recently announced our plan for our system to invest 5 billion over the next five years primarily in infrastructure technology, equipment, environmental initiatives, marketing and training. In Russia where our system has invested $2 billion since the early 1990's and where we are planning to invest another $1billion in the next three to five years. And finally, Vietnam, where our system has invested more than $200 million since 1994. Last month in conjunction with our bottling partner we have committed to invest and additional $200 million over the next three years.

Further, we continue to invest in sustainable innovations like our new plant bottle, the first bio faced beverage bottle that can be recycled along with other PC bottles, made up - - made with up to 30% plant-based materials, plant bottle is rolling out with Coca-Cola products in Denmark and with Dasani in selected areas of the US in the fourth quarter of 2009. This investment represents the kind of innovation that is critical for our continued success in the next decade and beyond. Finally, our global productivity initiatives are well on track to achieve our $500 million target by the end of 2011, and we will deliver more than half of the promised savings by the end of this year.

To recap, I am pleased with the results we have delivered year-to-date. Our global system is better than ever and was built to grow and win in all environments. Our business fundamentals are strong. We are an attractive cash generator with a commitment towards investing diligently for the future. We are positive on both the short and long-term outlook for our business and strongly believe there's no better business to be in. We believe we have the right strategies and initiatives in place to drive long-term growth. Importantly, we recognize the need to actively execute these strategies in a tailored way to effectively build our brands and grow volume and value share across all types of marketplaces. While we may continue to experience some quarter-to-quarter volatility during these difficult economic times, our focus remains on the long-term opportunities before us. We have the unprecedented reach, scale, and brands to capture this opportunity and we are well positioned to effective manage our business for growth both in today's economic environment and as we look toward our future. With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning.

As Muhtar indicated we are continuing to deliver consistent sustainable quality growth, growing volume, currency neutral revenue, profits and share. I am pleased with our performance and our seasoned management team's ability to continue to navigate these challenging economic times. Because of their collective efforts, we remain on track to deliver against our commitment, growing profits above our long-term target for both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis. As outlined in our release, we reported comparable earnings per share of $0.82 for the third quarter of 2009. If we exclude the impact from reducing our underlying effective tax rate on operations for the full year, which we now estimate to be approximately 23%, earnings per share would be $0.81. For the quarter our business delivered sound and balanced 3% currency neutral revenue growth, driven by a 2% increase in concentrate sales and a 1% favorable impact from price and mix.

On a year-to-date basis, our currency neutral revenue growth excluding bottler divestments stands at 5%, in line with our long-term growth target. For the quarter reported operating income declined 2%, impacted by an 11% currency headwind. Comparable currency neutral operating income for the quarter increased a strong 9% exceeding our long-term currency neutral profit target. And on a year-to-date basis, our comparable currency neutral profits are also up 9%. Let me take a moment to provide some detail on our SG&A expenditures. Our operating performance is a direct result of our continued investment in our brands all while maintaining disciplined cost measures and leveraging productivity benefits. We have benefited from productivity efforts across our marketing organization, leveraged more effective media buying and made strategic decisions to adjust spending behind initiatives with our bottling partners and customers, to deliver the value the consumers expect in premium branded offerings. With respect to margins, our core business remains healthy, expanding margins on a year-to-date basis, despite incurring higher pension costs. Our bottling investments group continues to improve margins as well.

Now let me address some of the factors that we see for the remainder of the year. First, building on Muhtar's earlier comments we are on track to deliver against our profit target for the year. With regard to currencies, as expected, currency has continued to improve throughout the year. As I mentioned earlier, currency negatively impacted our third quarter operating results by 11%. Based on current spot rates and our hedge positions, we expect currency headwinds to impact operating income by low double-digits for the full year. This implies that for the fourth quarter, we anticipate a low to mid-single digit currency tailwind. And it is certainly good to finally be able to say that. Further, if current spot rates hold we would not expect currencies to have the same severe headwinds as they did in 2009. However, our focus will continue to be on managing and investing in our business at the local market level and in local currencies to drive long-term growth and increase consumption of our brands.

Next let me move to operating expense leverage. First, we continue to cycle the initial savings benefits of our productivity programs while we incur higher pension costs. Second, and as I advised last quarter, we will have six fewer selling days in the fourth quarter. This means that while we will continue to reduce our expense base in the fourth quarter, much as we were able to in the third quarter, the six fewer days will preclude us from capturing the operating expense leverage we have realized year-to-date, in direct contrast to the significant benefit we experienced in the first quarter, when we had five additional selling days. Therefore despite this quarters positive leverage, you should expect operating expense leverage to be negative for the fourth quarter, and as such slightly positive for the second half of the year.

Finally, an update on our cash flow and cash usage. We continue to see strong cash flow from operations increasing 11% on a year-to-date basis. As we announced in our last call, we have reinstituted our share repurchase program. By the end of the third quarter we have repurchased $241 million for our stock, and are committed to repurchasing up to $1 billion for our stock by the end of this year. In closing, we believe we are meeting our commitments to our shareholders, delivering consistent quality growth and investing for the future while also returning value via stock appreciation and dividends. We continue to be an attractive generator of strong free cash flow with a fundamentally sound balance sheet. And while we recognize that the economic environment will likely remain challenging for consumers and customers as we move into 2010, we remain committed to driving profitable growth, gaining global share and enhancing the value of our brands.

Operator, now I will turn it over for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). In respect to the number of individuals with questions we request only one question per participant.

Our first question comes from John Faucher, JP Morgan. Your line is open.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Yes. Thank you very much. A quick question. As you look across the weakness on the developed markets, and I know you sort of talked about this. Can you focus on sort of how long-term you think these problems are? And - - it seems like everyone is surprised by the weakness generally in the more developed markets. Is this permanent retrenchment from the consumer, or do you think we will see a fairly quick snap back when the economies normalized.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, John. Good morning. I think you've got to look at it this way. Firstly, there is a lag between the macro economic growth coming back and consumer sentiment. And I think that we, we don't really all know how long that lag is, but there is a lag. And give you an example of Japan. - - although, we've heard some positive news about the macro trends in Japan, when you look at the consumer psyche, when you look at supermarket spend in Japan over the last quarter, minus 7%, department stores down 16%, household expenditures down 3.5%. There's some significant weak consumer sentiment. On the other hand we see exports beginning to rebound. And I think we all watch and see how long this consumer sentiment is going to remain depressed and pressure on household expenditures.

Similar not quite the same story in Europe, but I think Europe is a tale of two cities, eastern Europe, Russia, as well as central and eastern Europe, very, very poor. But then when you look at some key European marketplaces like Belgium that was up 6% for us in the last quarter, Netherlands was up 4%, France was up 3%. Italy was up 2%, Germany up 1%. So you see a different kind of consumer out there in terms of how they feel about their future and how they feel about their pocketbook. No question that consumers have shifted their spending, spending more time at home. Patterns of consumption are changing, restaurants are under a lot of pressure. But you've got Spain and really the worst kind of economic situation in western Europe together with eastern Europe, and you have got some others like I just mentioned in a fairly good space.

I still believe that the US is still going to have to pull the general consumer sentiment up in the world, and the US consumer resiliency we will probably see that happening. But I just don't have an idea about the timing and how that is going to occur in terms of exact timing. But there is a lag, I want to stress between macro trends that we are beginning to see some improvements in the recent IMS report that significantly upped the anti for macro growth trends for 2010 and the consumer sentiment. So I just want to stress that. I just don't know what, we will all watch and see how the lag is going to be. And then - - I mentioned to you also before about my, my quadrant of four, in terms of how I see the recovery in general.

I think China, India, Brazil - - and others in that area, like Indonesia, Vietnam, places in the Middle East, Eurasia, are all showing that recovery is on the way. We feel it. Continued volatility in eastern Europe and Russia and Ukraine although the current oil price should be stabilizing things at the moment as far as Russia and as far as some stimulus packages that we are hearing the Russian Government is considering. And then, slower recovery in western Europe and USA and continued difficulty in Japan for the time being as far as the consumer is concerned. But I do, I would be disappointed let me stress that if our volume numbers did not improve in Japan as we go forward.

JOHN FAUCHER: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge Research. Your line is open.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Morning, everyone. My question on North America, if you could help us out. It looks like the still retail business might have been down double-digits in the quarter. Was that all bottled water you mentioned aggressive price competition. If you can expand on that? And I am wondering with the foreign currency upside coming and maybe increasing the US supply chain savings. Are you looking to reinvest some of that back into the US what might be more competitive spend coming ahead. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: The answer to your first question is certainly we will look at all investment opportunities as we look forward into some possible benefits from currencies, and you have seen us do that before, Bill. So I think you will continue to see us always investing in our brands and in our business as we have done throughout this year. In fact if you, if you look at our total marketing spend this year coupled with in-store spend - - you're talking about around 5% year-to-date. So we continue to spend even in times where we've had currency headwinds. So we will certainly take advantage of that. As far as stills in the quarter, what you really see is certainly water, is significantly down, and that's really what is pulling our business, and that is mainly the bulk water business.

BILL PECORIELLO: And the aggressive price competition was that in a certain segment?

MUHTAR KENT: That was more in the active life style and sports segments, in the latter part of the quarter.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Carlos Laboy, Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes. Good morning, everyone. Two questions, Muhtar. One is what has to be in it for Coke, if Coke is to see any merit in beer and soft drink integration going forward as you look at your vision for the year 2020. The second one is single serving, it may now becoming larger than brand Coke in some markets like Indonesia. Could you speak to where you see that brand going over the next couple of years?

MUHTAR KENT: Carlos, good morning. The second question you had was on Minute Maid pulpy, is that right.

CARLOS LABOY: Singles, yes, correct.

MUHTAR KENT: First, let me just address the pulpy. We have now, in eight countries and year-to-date June, unit case, cases were up for the first half of the year, more than 50%, certainly driven by China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Pakistan. Our business in juice and juice drinks now in China is almost 20% of the 1.3 billion case business, and driving really hard and certainly we see tremendous organic growth going forward in many markets including Hong Kong, Taiwan, Pakistan, Indonesia, and we intend to continue our horizontal expansion, continue to innovate. We have new products like white grape, aloevera, lemon tropical mix and now - - supermilky pulpy in China. We have sold in the first few days, 24 million bottles and we will sell in the next 120 days, 240 million bottles or more of this product in China. So this is - - we certainly see a lot of opportunity in both horizontal expansion. Secondly, innovation and further vertical growth in this juice drink area. And you will see us also expanding into other continents from where we are.

As far as beer consolidation is concerned, I mean you have basically - - I have shared with you previously my view. And my view of soft drinks integration has not really changed since the day I was managing a brew and bottling business. And that is strategic functions need to be separate and you can't for benefiting both businesses. If there are synergies in nonstrategic areas like freight, warehousing, back office, I think in this day and age you can't leave those on the table. You have got to take advantage of those. But at the front end which is - - you are talking about a different consumer, different consumption pattern, different regulations. I think it is absolutely important to keep the strategic function dedicated to each side. And that's been my view on it and that remains my view on it. And I do not think there is long-term significant synergistic benefits to combining totally the two businesses and having the same sales system, having the same market development system because it is fundamental differences between product distribution, servicing. And also in the velocities, of channels, price compliance, other issues. And there's never the same footprint between (inaudible), sparkling beverages and beer, and there's a huge difference in the number of channels and a significant difference in consumption pattern and also the consumer itself. So that remains my view on the subject.

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Christine Farkas, Bank of America. Your line is open.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you very much. Muhtar, I was wondering if you could get just a little bit more into detail in North America. The price mix was described up as 1%. Just in light of the concentrate pricing model, the mix that you talked about, the shift of the holiday also would be helpful to understand how much that holiday shift hurt volumes, and maybe impact from energy drinks, if any. If you could just shed a little bit of light on the North American trends. And Gary, I just want to understand in terms of the buy back, why we don't see the dollar amount on your cash flow statement in the third quarter. Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, let me just address the first piece and Gary will take it on the second.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Sure.

MUHTAR KENT: We believe there are three keys to achieving healthy sustainable growth in North America; healthy brands, healthy customer relationships and a healthy system that is capable of working in unison to serve our customers in the most effective and efficient way. With regards to healthy brands, we continue to build strong value creating brands as evidenced by our improved brand health on Coke trademark, and increased revenues and system profitability. With regard to healthy customer relationships, we work very well with our entire US system on corporate and customer programs I mentioned in my remarks. And that's increasing our ability to create healthy value creating relationships with the customers. And healthy systems, we accelerate system collaboration. We have accelerated system collaboration on supply train productivity through Coca-Cola supply which is on track to exceed our three year goal of 150 million.

The successful integration of our recently acquired businesses and implementation of procured to pay and other operating disciplines, which are removing waste at a fast pace, in areas of operating expense. And then we continue to build on our strong aligned position in the system driving the expansion of key enterprise initiatives, and best practices that are designed to increase our ability to drive the benefits of what I call, what we call virtual integration, expansion of our incidence based pricing model across other bottlers deployment of the right execution daily, looks of success, the new architecture for brand price fact channel, really working well. Local integration of our food service business in select markets this summer and learnings from there. So, I think there's a lot of things going on, and I just want to stress one thing. You know as of today, I've said it before, I think before, bottlers representing almost all of the US volume, 99%, that are members of our counsel where we have pricing unity, SKU agreements, the big event support to coordinate selling periods, like holidays with key customers across regions and so forth. So all of that I think - - are working in our favor for the long term. We, you asked a question about holiday shifts and we don't usually disclose the impact, the exact impack of that holiday shift, but obviously you know from past experiences, and it is not insignificant. And Gary, you want to take the question on share buybacks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes. It is, number one, there are quite a few people in the controllers booth that will be happy that you asked a question proving that someone actually reads the statements in detail. But there is a reason, we have several things going on within the quarter such as the special dividend that Coca-Cola Hellenic has announced now, and because of that, felt like we needed to be out of the market for legal reasons. And then once all that was announced and public and all, we went into the market but it was actually at the very end of the quarter and therefore the shares had not settled and so you don't see on the cash flow statement, but we had actually bought them. They just didn't settle until the following Monday.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. That's helpful.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg, Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, also on North America, with the sparkling down 5%. I was hoping you could give us some more detail on how broad based this was across channels and whether any particular channel led that pick up in rate of decline. And then similarly as you look at packages, how did single-serve perform sequentially in there and any commentary beyond what your prepared remarks were on package changes in trend for particular package sizes.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning, Mark. I think there's no question, certain channels still remain challenging and we expect them to continue to be a challenge. But we do, our brand house as I said scores are improving. I think the packaging innovations like the big bottle shrink multipack, the 50-ounce twin back, two liter contour, are really getting traction despite the price increases in revenue per bottle, significant increases. The expanded multipack can offers are performing well, entry price packs like $0.99 continue to generate incremental transactions. And then we expect some very good momentum from our new calorie conscious offerings like 90 calorie drink mini can. I think we have made excellent progress I would say on resolving system business issues over the last year or so including our brand portfolio system economic model. And I do think that generally speaking, there has been a shift as we said from the July 4th impacting the total volume growth for the quarter. But we believe that our single packs, particularly in stills, are performing very well, the $0.99 offering is providing extra transactions in the convenience store/retail channel. And we see we think that all of these initiatives together with our strong brand health should see us - - I would be disappointed if we didn't improve our results in North America going forward. And I think the impact on retail is not tied to a specific channel. It is more broad based tied to overall consumer sentiment.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And if I could on the single-serve element in there. Is it fair to think that trends there got a little more challenging in the third quarter.

MUHTAR KENT: I think you've got it probably, difficult to say, Mark. I think you got to take it into realm of the shift in the, in the holiday, and we are still seeing continued challenges in the convenience store channel, in the single-serve and also eat-and-drink channel. Certainly more people are spending time at home, more consumption shifting to the house. But we are, we are still seeing growth in our single-serve packages, incremental transactions.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: That's the key.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thanks, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: Our next question from Marc Greenberg, Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning. My question relates to the bottling investments. I wanted to get some sense from you as to how much potential margin improvement we should be thinking about in the coming year. The margins were just under 4% in the quarter. Wanted to get a sense of how much benefit might come through from lower inputs as well as continued volume growth. I know, Gary, in the past you've talked about benchmarking this to other bottlers. Where do you think we are in this process, and is it 10% bottler investment margin still a reasonable goal? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Mark. As Irial has said in the past, his long-term goal for bottling investments group would be to go for a 10% kind of margin. We are at 4% now, which is a significant improvement from a couple of years ago when it was negative. So we are seeing a really good sequential year-on-year and quarter-by-quarter improvement. But I would say the 10% is still a long-term target of multiple years away. Because remember most of the bottlers we have we owned because they were in trouble or they were troubled bottlers. So we where fixing them, if you will. While there's going be a lot of commodity relief particularly as you look at some of the US bottlers, etc., particularly around aluminum, and probably around corn sweetener. If you look at them, and juice actually looks like it is going to be down in price next year as well.

Actually, for the bottling investments group there will be some pressure because sugar has actually gone up pretty significantly in pricing just because of some shortages of sugar. In fact there's some rationing of sugar going on right now in India. And PET prices have increased as well just due to the price of oil. So, I don't see a lot of that upside from commodities within our BIG group itself. But they continue to improve year-on-year and I would expect to see that continue kind of like we have seen in the past.

MUHTAR KENT: Just let me add, Mark. Firstly, I am pleased with the progress that Irial and his team are making in improving the financial dynamics of our BIG bottling investment group and Company bottling operations. I certainly also expect improvements to continue and as Gary said, the double-digit margin is certainly a long-term target. But every single year, all of the time, we expect the business to generate better financial results as well as continue to invest in really world class execution in all of the markets. I was again just - - I go a lot to bottling investment group markets and visit the marketplace with people who run those businesses. I was recently in Sweden just crossed over from Denmark and again, saw that both opportunity as well as the improvements that they have made all, and this is true for every market that they operate in. So, I think as we move forward, certainly Germany is a very key and important piece of this improvement, we will have sequential improvement, China under the leadership of Martin Jansen, our Chinese bottling operations will continue to see. Philippines, again, we just also have new leadership in the Philippines. And we will continue to see improvement coming from the Philippines. So I expect the improvements to come as well as India of course, and I expect to see the improvements coming every year leading up to double-digit margins.

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Wendy Nicholson, City Investment Research. Your line is open.

WENDY NICHOLSON, ANALYST, CITY INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Good morning. Can you talk a little bit more about the North American market and what you are doing in terms of shift in your marking mix? I know you said that marketing was up 5% year-to-date. How much of that is advertising and given the weakness in the consumer sentiment that you talked about, are you finding still higher promotional levels to be more effective than advertising, and what strategy is going toward?

MUHTAR KENT: Wendy, I think you need to see that in the realm of what we are completely, as we've said before, we are expecting our brand price pack channel mix inside the four walls of the customers, be it supermarket, hypermarket or convenience retail. And I think with that and we have a lot of initiatives also in the food service area. So, taking all of that into - - context, that is why we see a great opportunity to communicate more with the consumer at the point of sale, more effectively using better innovative tools. And therefore - - we have increased our overall direct in-store merchandising, merchandising and advertising and indirect sampling investments behind our brands that is reflected in our strong brand growth for Coke trademark, Vitaminwater and powerade. And we continue to co-invest with our bottlers and funding designed to accelerate our ability, ability to offer consumers affordable value and inspiring new products, new packages, just like the two liter contour twin packs, the new can, the $0.99, et cetera. And I think what we are finding is all of that plus the digital media is really beginning to come together and creating a really effective marketing mix for us in the US marketplace.

WENDY NICHOLSON: Is it fair to say that's working particularly well simply given the macro environment we are in, but that's still in the broader context, the price pack architecture has been around for a little while, and certainly has become more important. But it is I guess longer term kind of the marketing mix, algorithm for you in the US, has that changed permanently to de-emphasize traditional media.

MUHTAR KENT: I think it is how much of it is due to our new brand price pack architecture, how much of it is due to the current marketplace dynamics is difficult to say. First in the price brand, architecture is an evolution. We only have as I said 40% distribution with our two liter contour bottles. So we are continuing to roll all of this out. It is not something that has been around for a long time. We are just rolling out the new 90 calorie mini cans. We are still expanding the $0.99 contour bottle. So there's a lot going on in the marketplace. If you go into the marketplace today in the United States, and you don't have to even go into one of the [blue stores] of CC, but if you actually go into the normal marketplace and visit any supermarket where our brand price architecture has been changed, you will see the difference. You will see how we are communicating, you will see the points of interruption, you will see how the in-store media and marketing is coming together with our new packaging.

WENDY NICHOLSON: Got it. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: The next question from Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Muhtar, just some color in terms of Russia and eastern Europe. Obviously the macros are still challenging in those markets and you have talked about the lag in some of these markets. But now it has been three or four quarters of sort of high single to double-digit volume decline in Russia. I am just wondering if you do get a sense of whether the consumers are close to bottoming there and we should think about the trends going forward in some of those more challenging markets. And then in those markets, are you also really expanding some of these affordable packaging and price mix or price (inaudible) architecture. Why aren't they responding as well as maybe some of the other markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, because I think you know eastern Europe is the land of volatility, and things always are deeper and much more colorful based on my experience. And again, firstly, the volatility is much higher in Russia and Ukraine than it is in eastern, traditional eastern Europe and central Europe like Baltics and Poland and so forth, central Europe, Hungary, Chekoslovokia, and so forth. So, it is not as deep and the volatility is not as apparent and significant in eastern-central Europe as it is in Russia. I think we have seen most of the volatility already take place in Russia. I feel that. I was there in Russia a couple of months ago with the Chairman of our bottling partner, (inaudible) and CEO and we sat down and looked at the market, visited the customers and looked at the distribution and stores in the market. And I think the consumer sentiment that we see is one that probably has seen most of most of the volatility. That's my feeling. Although it is always difficult to say with Russia and Ukraine. But I do believe that we have seen a significant dips in consumer, and real estate has toppled. Consumer spending has come down, supermarket revenues are down. Retail revenues are down, every shop owner you speak to they talk about revenues being down. I think we are past most of that going into the future. As far as eastern-central Europe is concerned it is been, the dip has been lower, in places like Poland, Chekoslovokia, Hungary, even in southeast Europe, Romania. Probably Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia and former Yugoslovia is a little worse than other parts. So, I would say probably Russia will see some more bright sunshine as we move forward although not fully out in terms of consumer sentiment and then eastern-central Europe probably still a slower recovery than that.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Thanks. And then, Gary, just a follow up on currency you have talked about 2010 not being as headwinds as 2009 but I mean are there any hedges that you've already layered in that might mitigate the benefit that you would see on the currency side if you just look at the spot rates of the major currencies?

GARY FAYARD: No, Judy. In fact our hedging program is more an option based strategy. So, even if we called it wrong, and all we would still have the upside. So, no, the only edge that you heard in my comments was I know where the spot rates are today, I do not know where the spot rates will be next year. So I think we just - - I will keep you updated as we go into the year. And all but there is no negative on our side that would cause anything other than what you see today.

JUDY HONG: Okay. Great. Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you, Gary, and Jackson. As mentioned at the outset of our call, and as part of our continued efforts to provide you with a broader view across our business, and our 20/20 vision, as we said we will hosting an Investor and Analyst event here in Atlanta on November 16th and 17th. Gary and I together with members of our global company and bottler system leadership will discuss how we intend to usher in a new era of winning for our Company and our system. I look forward to continuing our conversations around the opportunities that lay ahead for The Coca-Cola Company at this event and I thank if you for joining us if morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you participating in today's conference call for The Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the Company's website at thecocacolacompany.com. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
ijuice : Fruit Juices | i428 : Soft Drinks | ihtwoo : Bottled Water | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
gcon : Consumer Affairs | cmarkr : Market Research | cbrand : Branding | goly : Olympics | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091103e5ak000ru
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,242 words
   PD
21 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's second quarter 2009 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.

I would like to now introduce Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

   TD
JACKSON KELLY, VP AND DIRECTOR OF IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer; and Pancho Reyes, our Latin America Group President. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earning objectives. And should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules in our Company Website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com, under the Reports and Financial Information tab in the investors section, which reconcile certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our Website for this information. Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report another excellent quarter of growth for the Coca-Cola Company, despite difficult global market conditions. Today, we are positioned better than ever to grow share and build value in the dramatically changing world. The fundamentals of our business remain strong. Our Company is growing. Growing volume, growing revenue, as well as profits on a currency-neutral basis, building share and strengthening brand health. And importantly, we're delivering against our expectations, with first half results in line or above our long-term growth targets.

For the first half of the year, unit case volume increased 3%, adding another 300 million unit cases, or about the size of our annual volume in Chili, our 18th largest market globally. On a comparable currency neutral basis, net revenues increased 3% and operating income increased 9%. For the first half of the year, comparable EPS is down 7% due to the expected currency translation impact. We continue to invest our robust cash flow and profits into key markets and growth strategies, which in turn enables us to deliver solid performance in fast-growing economies like India, Brazil, Mexico and China. These investments also give us the ability to expand our footprint in these key market economies. Consider China, for example, where we just opened two new plants last month and the Pan Asian Innovation Center at the end of last year. We now have 38 fully operational factories in this growing and dynamic country.

I'm also pleased with how our associates are acting as true owners, running this high margin business with a low margin mentality, while redoubling their efforts to identify areas of cost savings. Savings that are being prudently reinvested back into the business. And we're executing on our productivity initiatives and delivering tangible results. We are on track to achieve our $500 million target by the end of 2011 and expect to deliver more than 50% of the promised savings by the end of this year. I'm confident that our strong brands and solid business fundamentals are the assets that are being leveraged by our seasoned management teams to meet our long-term target this year.

And while we are on track and performing well in the first half of the year, as I said on our last call, there may be bumps along the way, given the continued global recession and economic volatility. For the quarter, we continued to deliver consistent and balanced top and bottom line performance results. Globally, our unit case volume for the quarter increased an outstanding 4% at the top end of our long-term growth targets. Our international operations remained significant contributors to our solid performance results and increased unit case volume by 5%, cycling 5% from the prior year.

Our franchise system leveraged the strength of our leading brands, geographic footprint and global reach and scale to drive unit case growth around the world. In Latin America, Mexico and Argentina grew 6% and Brazil was up 5%. In Europe, northwest Europe is up 6% on strong performance in Great Britain, as well as France. And in Eurasia and Africa, India was up 33%, Nigeria grew 9%, souther Eurasia was up 5% and Turkey up 4%. And in the Pacific, China grew 14%, the 20th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Vietnam was up 12%. Korea and Thailand increased 9%. And Japan volume grew 2%, despite GDP contracting 8%.

Finally, we continued to gain strength in many emerging markets. For example, in our 120 countries with per caps less than 150, our volume growth was 8% for the quarter, cycling 6% in the prior year. Our volume results also underscore the continued efforts of our system to deliver our consumers the right brand, in the right pack, at the right price, in the right channel, for any consumption occasion. We can do this because of the strength and alignment we have with our bottling partners across the world.

As we have said before, share gains and brand health are key success metrics. For billions of consumers around the world, Coca-Cola and all our brands remain an affordable luxury. In fact, once again this quarter, we gained nonalcoholic ready-to-drink volume and value share, marking the eighth consecutive quarter of globally winning share in both. We've continued to outperform the industry across most key categories and geographies. And are aggressively looking for opportunities to profitably gain share from competitors. The same and increasing levels of consumer spending are driving improvements in our brand health scores, which measure consumers' favorite brands. Our scores have improved in markets that account for over 75% of our current volume.

We are leveraging this growth in brand health by creating the perfect shopper experience, outlet by outlet, with a unique system that visits 20 million customers weekly. These improvements in share and brand health provide us confidence that we will continue to experience growth across key categories and geographies. Our system must also continue working together to commercialize innovations faster than ever before and to accelerate growth of trademark Coca-Cola to win with consumers, both today and tomorrow. This is a wonderful growth business to be in. Alongside our system partners, we are focused on investing together for growth, to achieve what we call our 20/20 vision. You will continue to hear more about this throughout this year.

Now, let me move to our strategic initiatives by taking a look back and a look forward from our vantage point halfway through this year. At the beginning of the year, we told you that we believed there would be continued and even increasing challenges for our global economy. And that these challenges would create a tough environment for our consumers, our customers and our franchise system. However, we also told you that we remain resolute in our belief that the unique value and quality of our brands, the strength of our system and the resolve of our people would deliver sound performance, despite these head winds.

Our management's clear focus on a consistent set of strategic initiatives is proving successful and we are taking advantage of all opportunities to emerge stronger from this crisis. We remain realistic about the risks and excited about the opportunities that we face in the short-term, as well as the long-term. We must win every day, win with consumers, win with customers and franchise partners, the three pillars of our business.

All of this starts with consumers and winning with our portfolio. First and foremost, with Coca-Cola and sparkling beverages. Globally, Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable brand, at almost $80 billion in retail sales, grew volume 3% and Coke Zero grew 11% for the quarter. Unit case volume for sparkling beverages was led by broad-based international growth of 4%. Some highlights for sparkling beverage growth from around the world include India, up 35%; China up 14%; Great Britain growing 7%; Japan, 6%; Brazil, 4%; Argentina, 3%; and South Africa, 2%. Sprite was driven by international growth of 11%, led by China, India and Pakistan.

An interesting highlight is brand Coca-Cola's performance in Latin America. In what many would consider as one of the world's most developed sparkling geographies, we grew brand Coca-Cola 3% in both Mexico and Argentina and 6% in Brazil this past quarter. We're often asked how we are able to do this, given the strength of our per caps that already exist in this part of the world. Simply said, it is the result of the pure strength and momentum of a brand that has been built in Latin America over 100 years. Revenue growth strategies, based on consumer and customer insights, provide us with the capabilities to clearly segment with packaging, pricing and channel initiatives.

Across Latin America and in close alignment with our bottling partners, we're focused on special price points to drive consumption, adjusting packaging initiatives towards refillable and value propositions, expanding cooler placements to ensure our products are within an arm's reach of desire. And I know Poncho Reyes, President of our Coca-Coal Latin American Group, looks forward to answering your questions about our business in his geography during our Q&A session this call.

Our integrated Open Happiness campaign is now running in markets that represent 75% of total Coca-Cola volume. This is the fastest global rollout of a campaign from our Company and it speaks to speed as a strategic initiative, as we operate in a realtime world. Recruitment, as well as retention, are the focus of strong point of sale execution, targeted towards moms and teens, as well as Coke with meals programming. If you dialed into the call early enough this morning, you will have heard the number one top song in China, "Open Happiness," the single recently hit number one spot on four leading Chinese music charts. And the "Open Happiness" music video premiered just last week on MTV in the US.

While traditional marketing avenues will continue to play a critical role as a key medium to connect our brands with consumer passions, we're also shifting to more digital media. Globally, 90 million consumers, of which over 40% are under the age of 25, are registered in our databases to engage with our brands via loyalty and online brand experiences. In the United States, My Coke Rewards with 12 million members, is the largest online consumer packaged goods program.

Our still beverage unit case volume increased 8%, as we focused on organic growth and leveraged our recent strategic acquisitions. Internationally, still beverages were up 12%. We gained beverage volume and value share globally, driven by Vitamin Water and our global juice, tea, sports drinks and energy brands. We've continued to provide consumers with innovative product across diverse beverage occasions. Valle Fruit is delivering significant results in juice drinks across Latin America and building the Jugos Del Valle acquisition, using an innovative product formula developed in the Pacific under Minute Maid Pulpy. Also, late in the quarter, we launched [Hugo.] This dairy and juice beverage introduced in Chile represents our committment to create new categories that meet new consumer needs.

We're also making strategic investments in exciting new beverages, like Innocent, the premium smoothie and juice brand in the United Kingdom. Glaceau, led by Vitamin Water and Smart Water, continue to gain volume and value share. In the US, Vitamin Water 10 is generating incremental transactions and reaching an expanded consumer base, with strong repeat and minimal cannibalization. We'll be launching four brand-new Vitamin Water 10 flavors early in the third quarter.

Our second pillar is winning with our customers. When we sit down with our customers, it's a simple conversation. We want to understand their growth plan and then develop programs for our brands to drive revenues at rates in excess of our customer plans. We want our customers to be as excited about investing in beverages as we are. And our conversations are working. In this difficult environment, larger retailers are the ones taking share and we are winning with our key customers. Through May, we grew volume 8% in our top 10 global retail customers.

Part of the success is continuing to innovate with equipment that engages consumers and drives traffic for our customers. Freestyle, our break-through fountain dispensing technology, which enables consumers to select from over 100 branded beverages, continues to test well in field trials. Our interactive video vending machine won the Gold Award at the 2009 Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival. This video vendor transforms simple transactions into dynamic brand interactions.

In North America, Fuse is being significantly expanded in a fountain format. This past quarter, we announced the addition of Fuse in 22,500 subway outlets. Additionally, McDonald's has agreed to introduce Vitamin Water XXX into the majority of their US restaurants over the next 18 months. These are just a few examples of our commitment and clear focus on finding the right solutions to grow together with our customers.

Our third pillar is winning with our franchise system. During the quarter, we continued to deliver balanced growth and perform well in Latin America, with volume up 6%. And we remain optimistic about growth in Latin America for the remainder of the year. Also, China and India, both continue to be strong contributors to our growth and we are winning volume and value share in both sparkling and still categories in these important geographies. To drive continued growth in these critical geographies, we are investing significantly in route-to-market strategies, technology, infrastructure and consumer marketing, as well as in our talented people.

Japan our performed the nonalcoholic beverage industry, resulting in our fifth consecutive quarter of share gains. Our success in growing sparkling beverages in Japan continues with trademark Coca-Cola up 10%, the 11th consecutive quarter of growth. This demonstrates that by applying the basic Coca-Cola way of marketing and selling and by executing flawlessly, we can keep growing Coca-Cola in one of our most developed markets in the world.

Additionally, Coca-Cola Zero continued its strong performance in Japan, further winning category share. Sokenbichia tea rebounded with a 9% growth and we recently launched two high value brands En Cafe and Glaceau Vitamin Water. Georgia Coffee's results were disproportionately impacted by the economic slowdown in at-work vending channels but we are optimist that this brand will turn around as market conditions begin to improve. We continue to work hard to ensure that we're delivering solid performance in Japan during this challenging economic climate.

In Europe, we're weathering the storm better than many, despite the fact that the economic crisis is a constant reality for consumers. Volume in Europe increased 1% for the quarter. We are winning where it counts, with consumers in the market. We gained volume and value share across key countries, as the nonalcoholic beverage industry slowed, especially in away-from-home channels. We are applying consistent global strategies in Europe, with a clear focus on winning at the point of sale, appealing to moms and teens through programs such as Coke with meals, offering value propositions and positive price points and adjusting packaging for the right occasions. We expect the retail environment in Europe to remain challenging throughout 2009. But we continue to proactively identify opportunities to capture share and maintain a strict focus on winning behind our key brands, particularly trademark Coca-Cola.

In North America, just like everywhere else in the world, our operations are focused on building healthy brands, healthy consumer and customer relationships and a healthy system, which are the keys for sustainable growth. During the quarter, volume was down 1%, as we continued to outperform the industry, gaining slight volume share and significant value share. Separately, our still beverage portfolio led the industry in growth for the eighth consecutive quarter, driving volume and value share gains in sports drinks, active life-style beverages, teas and energy drinks, as well as the continued value share gains in juice. We have a clear and aligned system strategy for delivering sustainable, profitable growth and we are leading the industry in building value-creating brands.

And in concert with our bottlers, we're building on our successes to get our location, brand, price, pack and channel architecture right. The implementation of incidence pricing is going well and is being applied to more than 80% of our sparkling volume. Our new pricing model supports our new sparkling package architecture, including the new immediate consumption recruitment packs. This enables our Company and bottling partners to jointly focus on building consumer occasions, maximizing brand reach and generating value.

Importantly, having the right pricing architecture in North America, as we do internationally, is part of how we will unlock sustainable profitable growth. For example, we believe that today's equivalent of the old $0.05 Coke is our $0.99 cold contour bottle. Today, in 90% of the US, we offer an ice cold contour bottle of Coca-Cola for $0.99. An affordable price point that recruits new consumers. This initiative is generating 1 million new and incremental transactions for our system every single week.

Additionally, on the productivity side, Coca-Cola supply is already delivering savings, which are being reinvested by the system to build sustainable, competitive advantages. We're encouraged about our growth opportunities in North America. We believe we have the right strategy and a system that is jointly committed to continue being more effective and efficient.

To recap, I'm pleased with the results we've delivered in the first half of the year. Our business fundamentals remain strong. We continue to be a consistent and stable cash generator, with increasing dividends and a commitment to investing diligently for the future, while rewarding our shareholders. We have the brands, the reach and the scale to capture real opportunity, both today and tomorrow. And we remain relentlessly focused on effectively operating in what I consider to be the world's best consumer business. And with that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP AND CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. And good morning, everyone. As Muhtar indicated, our Company is growing in volume, revenue, profits and share. The fundamentals of the business remain strong. Our further share gains and brand health improvements reflect our experienced management team's ability to utilize the assets of the Coca-Cola system, to deliver tangible results and value for our shareowners. We delivered on our commitment to growing volume and profits in line with our long-term growth model for the first half of the year, even excluding the impact of the five additional selling days that we had in the first quarter.

For the second quarter, we delivered solid results across a diverse geographic footprint, with unit case volume growth at the top end of our expectations. This, of course, includes some benefit to our volume growth from the holiday shifts of Easter and the Fourth of July, and the cycling of 3% volume growth in the prior year period. Reported operating income declined to 9%, primarily related to a 14% currency head wind. Comparable currency neutral operating income for the quarter came in better than we expected, at 4%, cycling 9% from the second quarter of last year. For the first half of the year, we exceeded our long-term currency-neutral profit target, increasing operating income 9%.

As outlined in our release, we reported earnings per share of $0.88 per share on a diluted basis for the second quarter of 2009. As expected, this included charges related to our restructuring and ongoing productivity initiatives, at both the Company and our equity investee bottlers. In total, we had a net charge of $0.04 per share. Therefore, our adjusted earnings per share was $0.92 per share, a decrease of 9% after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year and again, significantly impacted by currency head winds in the quarter. Additionally, $0.01 per share was related to the timing of expenses in corporate, which we expect to reverse in the second half of the year.

Net revenue in the quarter decreased 9%, which included a 9% effect from currency head winds and a 2% drag from structural changes, primarily related to our divestment of bottlers. At the same time, net revenue was positively impacted by a 3% increase in concentrate sales. Price mix for the quarter was slightly negative, reflecting our current focus to drive greater affordability initiatives across many markets to ensure we continue building brand relevance and equity with consumers. Additionally, our Japan business was impacted by shifts away from the at-work vending channel due to the economic environment. We believe this is temporary and will moderate as more manufacturing facilities in Japan come back online. As a result, net revenues, excluding the structural changes, were up 2% for the quarter.

Now, let me address some of the factors that we see for the remainder of the year. First, our picture of success for 2009 remains the same, to meet our long-term growth targets. On currency, as expected, global currency fluctuations negatively impacted the translation of reported results this quarter. However, our operators, who are held accountable in their local currencies, are driving local investments to support sustainable growth. While currency exchange rates have generally improved throughout the year, it's important to look at today's rates relative to the prior year. For example, the average spot rate was $1.54 for the euro in Q3 '08 versus a current spot rate of around $1.42.

Also, note that the US dollar has appreciated significantly against a basket of emerging market currencies. Therefore, based on current expectations, including the rates we're cycling and hedges in place for our key hard currencies, we anticipate a 12% to 14% currency head wind for the third quarter and a low single-digit currency head wind for the fourth quarter. Of course, there are many different scenarios that could play out as the market's risk perspective continues to evolve. But I can assure you, we will continue to carefully manage our risk exposure and keep you updated as we move through the remainder of the year.

Next, let's move to operating expense leverage. First, as we move in the second half, we will begin to cycle the initial savings benefits of our productivity programs. Second, we'll continue to incur higher pension costs and cycle lower incentive costs for the remainder of the year. And third, we will have six fewer selling days in the fourth quarter. This means that while we will continue to reduce our expense base in the fourth quarter, the rate of reduction will be lower than the revenue decrease we will experience as a result of having six fewer days in the quarter. So essentially, the opposite of the significant benefit we experienced in the first quarter when we had five additional selling days. Therefore, you should expect operating leverage to be essentially flat for the second half of the year, even as we continue to benefit from our ongoing productivity initiatives.

Below the operating profit line, we will have the full impact of higher interest costs related to the $2.25 billion in term debt that we placed in March and the continuing impact of currencies on equity income related to our bottlers. As a reminder, our revenues will continue to be impacted by the sale of our Pakistan bottler investment at the end of the third quarter last year. Next to taxes. We ended the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate at 23.5%. And we estimate that our underlying effective rate will remain in the range of 23.5% for the remainder of the year. Finally, a comment on our cash, given the 14% increase in year to date cash flow from operations, we are restarting our share repurchase program and expect to repurchase up to $1 billion of our stock during the remainder of 2009.

In closing, I believe our first half performance is indicative of a Company that is growing and delivering in a challenging market, while continuing to build on our record of success. We are on track to meet our long-term growth targets for the year and are optimistic about the tremendous growth opportunities in the beverage industry. Our 20/20 vision lays out a clear road map for our system and we have a skilled leadership team with the right plan and capabilities to achieve our goals alongside our bottling partners.

Again, Muhtar and I are pleased that Poncho Reyes has joined our call this morning. I know he looks forward to addressing any of your questions related to our Latin American operations. Operator, we're now ready for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) The first question is from John Faucher from JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning. A question for Poncho, actually, two questions. One, can you talk a little bit about some of the regional differences in performance in Mexico? We had been hearing that the north was a little bit weaker, given concerns about Swine Flu and the US economy. But looking at the overall numbers it, seems as though the south must be holding its own. And then secondly, we're hearing that Big Cola may be expanding in Brazil. So, any thoughts on that in terms of, with the economy having softened a little bit, whether you're seeing it a little more ripe from a B-brand standpoint? Thank you.

PONCHO REYES, PRESIDENT OF LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, John. This is Poncho. Regional performances in Mexico, no, they're pretty stable throughout the country. The north and the south have performed relatively in the same terms. So, the overall numbers that you are seeing are comfortable both in every geography within Mexico. B-brands, yes, B-brands are always a consideration, especially under tough economic situations like the ones we are facing. But in the Pacific was the birthplace, if you will of the B-brands, the [Juena's] back, I don't know, 20 years ago probably. So therefore, it's not unusual for somebody else to come into that market. I would think that it is a crowded B-brand market, by the way, and we welcome the competition coming from Big Cola if that would be the case. I think that we have a system that can deal with that threat and hopefully, we will continue to prove it as we go along in this environment.

JOHN FAUCHER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Bill Pecoriello from Consumer Edge Research.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE RESEARCH: Good morning, everybody. The question, if you could flush out a little bit more for us, the price mix? That was down around 1% in the quarter and you made comments about driving affordability. But the underlying kind of concentrate revenue per unit, is that going up in line with the bottlers raising price around the world to recoup offsetting FX and commodity increases? And also, what exactly is happening in the price mix in the bottling division in markets like Germany, Philippines? How much is that a drag on the price mix? Should we expect that to continue into the second half? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Bill, good morning. This is Muhtar. I'll let Gary talk about this. But just in general, basically, our price mix generally improved around the world. With a couple of exceptions somewhat related also to currency with BIG, certainly. But in general terms, I think we are on track and on target with our price mix plan and we're actually progressing better than our plan in many of our geographies. And I'll let Gary just talk in more specific terms.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, a little detail, Bill. If you looked at price mix, it was negative, about 1% negative in the quarter. And flat year to date, something like that -- or plus 1% year to date. If you look at it, we are -- we have positive price mix in every operating group across the world except for two; Bottling Investments Group and the Pacific. On bottling Investments Group, it is pretty much entirely a function of what's happened in the Philippines and in Germany, two markets that are significantly impacted economically. And then, within the Pacific, it's almost entirely all because of Japan. And there, it's really a function of a channel brand function. It's really Georgia Coffee in vending, primarily in at-work vending. And what we've got, is you've got a lot of automobile factories, et cetera, that have been closed due to the economic environment. We're seeing those start to come back online now and that's why we're cautiously optimistic that this thing is going to turn around. But you've got a high revenue channel and high revenue -- and high profit brands in that at-work vending. And basically, the Japan vending at-work and Germany and the Philippines is the whole thing. Everybody else was positive.

And just follow up one other piece on your question, generally most of the world, I'd say, is on some type of incidence pricing. And therefore, we and the bottlers are both benefiting and both investing jointly together in driving the right brands, the right packages and the right channels. So we're doing it together and we're in this together.

BILL PECORIELLO: Great. So maybe a little bit improvement in the back half as Japan vending comes back a little bit?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, I would expect so. I think we'll continue to see probably a difficult situation in the Philippines, probably in Germany as well. You've got a little negative just because of kind of channel and all in Spain because as you know, Spanish unemployment is sky high right now. So much related to the construction industry. So it's some specific markets.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Carlos Laboy from Credit Suisse.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

CARLOS LABOY: Poncho, Muhtar referenced the strength of the brands in his comments in Latin America. But how critical is the out performance of the region that Latin America is anchored by a bottler with a 10-year concentrate price model in their core market and the 50/50 long-term profit split for non-carbs? Could you be hitting these numbers without this kind of clarity and profits, just looking out over the long-term? And then, on a related basis for Muhtar, as you go into the next round of planning sessions with bottlers, why not embrace some of these multiyear incidence agreements?

PONCHO REYES: Carlos, Poncho here. I cannot speculate on how important that is. I believe that our bottlers in Latin America, and I've said this time and time again, are perhaps the best bottlers in the world. I think that -- we have a great system. I believe that we have a great brand. I believe we have a firm belief on the power and on the potential of brand Cola. And I believe that we have a system that knows what to do and how to do it. And that is the important piece. Now, Muhtar, on the second part of that comment.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, look, Carlos, I think the key question -- the key thing in this business is, how do you really ensure that you have a constructive dialogue and constructive alignment and constructive tension in this business, that moves the business forward in one direction continuously. And that it operates as a single system, focused on generating consumer occasions and customer partnership. And I think incidence does that in many respects and I am -- I've always -- as a bottler, I worked very well under incidence and have instituted many incidence programs with bottling partners. So, if you asked me in terms of -- and it has to be multiyear. Because the picture of success in this business, as I have outlined before, is you get into a room with bottlers and you actually agree on a picture of success, five, 10 years down the road. Long-term planning is key and continuing to invest in this business always, with a focus, is key with both innovation on our side, inspirational marketing on our side, equipment on the side of the bottlers and new sales systems and socioeconomic segmentation that drives revenue in a proper way. And I think incidence does all of those in the best way. So, I -- you're talking to someone who believes that it's a great way to align the system.

CARLOS LABOY: Thanks, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. Muhtar, can you give us your assessment of sort of the macro, the consumer environment, particularly markets like Russia or Eastern Europe where trends have been pretty weak? Are you seeing trends stabilizing? And as you think about the 4% volume growth number in the fourth quarter and as you look out maybe six to 12 months out where GDP growth broadly should start to accelerate, are we at a point where now volume growth, even that 4% number, could start to show even better trend going forward?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, hi, Judy. Good morning. Think of a four different quadrants. That's how I like to think of the future that's going to be ahead of us. I think of four different quadrants as far as the consumer sentiment is concerned. On the top left quadrant, you've got Europe, you've got North America and maybe couple of other economies where we will probably be experiencing resets in terms of the consumer psyche. Where they'll probably do things differently than they've done in the past. And mostly related to probably -- in terms of durable consumer consumption habits but also in general, there will be a reset in the mind.

And then, on the top right, you've got markets like China, India, other parts of Brazil, where I think very strong, quick rebound. Then you've got on the bottom left quadrant, a Japan stagnation. And then you've got part of the question that you asked about Eastern Europe, Russia, Ukraine, on the bottom right quadrant, which is basically I call volatility. More zigs than zags, it could come back quickly and then it could go back down quickly. I think we're in for a few years of zigs and zags for Russia, Eastern Europe and so forth. So that's sort of a quadrant of -- a tale of four different cities, I think, in terms of how we're going to look at what's happening in the world.

JUDY HONG: Okay. That's helpful. Just a follow-up on share repurchase question. Gary, can you just maybe help us understand the $1 billion announcement today, sort of in the context of, obviously, your balance sheet is still very healthy, generating a lot of cash? It seems like the $1 billion could be viewed as a conservative number. In the past, you've also talked about acquisition opportunity. Maybe just help us maybe flesh out those issues.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Judy. There are a couple things there. And you've heard me talk about it in the past. One of the real items that you've got to consider are credit ratings and those are important to the system of maintaining those. We are very comfortable that with up to $1 billion in share repurchase that we'll maintain the credit ratings and where we are relative to all of the rating agencies. And we are being somewhat conservative but in the environment in which we're operating, I think it's prudent to be conservative. And we will continue to update on you our plans and where we are relative to that as we go through the year. I think you saw us start the year being very conservative, with not being in share repurchase at all. We're through half the year. We've announced we'll do up to $1 billion and then, I'll just continue to update you as we go forward.

MUHTAR KENT: Just on that, we said to you in the last call that we would be looking at it as we approached the summer. And as what Gary said, we've looked at it and we believe that it's right to reinstitute it. And I think we will -- you will always be seeing us look proactively for bolt-on acquisitions as we go around the world. And in this environment, we see increasing opportunities than in that area, just like the Innocent announcement. But again, I reiterate, organic growth is the key to our success and the key to our business. And I think that when you look at our volume results this past quarter, organic growth was strong. We had basically less than 0.5% point of acquired volume in our numbers and I'm pleased to see that as we go forward.

JUDY HONG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Kaumil Gajrawala from UBS.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, good morning, everyone. You spoke a bit about the vision 20/20. Can you talk about, as you went through studying 20/20 how the conclusions might have varied from the manifesto? And specifically, are there some strategic tweaks that you might be making that we need to be thinking about?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, yes. It's an evolution, Kaumil and it's important that all of our bottlers are -- we develop the 20/20 vision together with our bottling partners. That the to how -- perhaps one of the major differences to how we saw the manifesto from the previous years. And I think importantly, we've added another, a sixth P, which is productivity. It's embedded into everything we do. It's part of our transformation exercise and what we continue to want to do to even deliver more than what we've said. But I think it's a very sound throughout year vision with very specific strategic initiatives attached to it. It's a system document. And we believe that we've put a stake in the ground in terms of where we want our system revenues to go from where they are today around -- from the base of around $90 billion today to where we want the system revenues to go to. And we believe that it's, it's a real road map. And we are very actively today, as we speak, double-clicking into that document into each geography and applying it to how -- to different geographies with all of our bottling partners across the world. All of our senior leaders, as Poncho is doing in Latin America, is generating vision 20/20 for each of the geographies, each of our 39 business units around the world.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it, thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Lauren Torres from HSBC.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. In the quarter, in North America we saw a retail volume down 4%, with food service up 7%. I was just curious to get your thoughts or give some idea of what was behind these numbers? Being somewhat surprised to see food service doing so well, I was hoping you could talk about trends, be it by channel or by product category, if we're seeing some changes here.

MUHTAR KENT: Sure, Lauren. Good morning. We held our food service volume at 4% versus Q1 of '09 in the United States and in the second quarter. I'm very pleased with the dynamics of our food service business and our retail business. As I said, we held to 4% in our retail business versus Q1. And I think that we're seeing some very good, results of very good strategies being applied in our food service business. But I'm also very pleased with the developments that are taking place in terms of our brand price pack channel architecture and working very closely with our bottling partners in the United States in what we're doing in our retail business.

And I think that what I'd like to say is, I mentioned the $0.99 single cold drink pack, which is now in 90% of the United States, generating incremental transactions every week. And that's proving very successful. But also the very -- contourization of our two-liter, which is now in 25% of the United States. Our pricing is generating significant value share gains for us in the retail business. That's very positive compared to the previous quarters. So, we're holding volume at where it was and we're generating revenue growth, both for us and our bottling partners. That program is, we believe, sustainable and is getting good customer traction also across the United States. And I think looking forward, you can -- we basically see sequential improvement from here on, in our retail bottling can business in the United States.

LAUREN TORRES: And with that said, we're seeing sparkling beverages do better here in the US. So it's curious your thoughts on that? What's really driving that? How sustainable that is? How should we think about those trends as we course through the second half of the year?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think -- as I said, you should think of it as sequential improvement. We are pleased with the results of all the actions that we're taking; new package initiatives, new brand initiatives, Coca-Cola Zero driving growth and the strength of our brands. The metrics of our brands, with how our consumers see our brands, getting better in the United States. Which leads us to believe, again, that you will see sequential improvement in retail and in sparkling.

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Christine Farkas from Bank of America.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you very much. Good morning, Muhtar and Gary. I actually have a global question but just to clarify back on the North America top line, we saw net sales drop 3%. There was 1 negative point from currency. Shipments were down 1%, which implies price mix was slightly negative. I just want to understand, given how strong given the retail pricing environment was and your incident-based concentrate model, was this a channel shift switch? Or with fountain being so much stronger than retail, is that what impacted the price mix part of the top line?

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning. This is Muhtar. I'll let Gary also reflect on this. But I think, generally speaking, what we see is a shift in -- some shifts from cold drink as people -- certainly due to the economy. So there's a shift in retail more to the home market versus -- so cold drink continues to be under pressure in North America and there's more movement to quick service in North America. Some movement to quick service from bottling can cold drink. So you're seeing some of that being reflected in that number. And also, the shift in general as we said, in terms of the pressure on pricing in North America. So I think overall, though, we are confident that our activity, all of the actions that we're taking to drive sparkling, to drive cold drink with new price points, will bear fruit as we go into the second half of the year.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, Muhtar. And then broadly, on the global question, you've noted certainly potential bumps along the way, but your volume growth in the second quarter did pick up from the first quarter. When you look at the year here, is it fair to say that perhaps first quarter really was the bottom in terms of volumes and that -- or is there anything you can foresee that would suggest a hiccup like that in the second half of the year?

MUHTAR KENT: It's -- I can't say that with confidence, given where the economies are. All I can say is that all the programs that we have in place with our bottling partners are bearing fruit. So what you've seen is improvements in key geographies compared to the second quarter of '08. So, you've got improvements in many geographies compared to the second quarter of last year. And certainly, sequential improvement in many, many geographies versus the first quarter. If you look at Europe, if you look at many parts of the world, in Eurasia and Africa, in the Pacific. The Pacific group went from 4% to 6%. China went from 10% to 14%. so you see -- Japan went from flat to 2%. So, you've got sequential improvements from Q1 '09 to Q2 '09. I think that we're very pleased that we've been able to have a volume growth of 4% versus the 2% in the first quarter. But certainly, I think -- and certainly, we have comps of 5% in Q3 and 4% in Q4. So there are pretty significant comps as we go into the second half of the year and we will continue to drive our business forward, invest in our business and drive our business forward.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you very much, Muhtar.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Damian Witkowski from Gabelli & Company.

DAMIAN WITKOWSKI, ANALYST, GABELLI & COMPANY: Hi, good morning. A question on currencies. Have you still actively hedging your euro, even as in the second -- in the first half of '09, even as the euro was weak against the US dollar? And then, secondly, Muhtar, you mentioned you're proactively always looking for acquisitions. Just wondering if there's any focus, is it more domestic or more international?

MUHTAR KENT: Okay, I'll let Gary talk to you, Damian, about the currency and then I'll come back on acquisitions.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Damian, on currency, on the hard currencies, we do use an option strategy so that we participate on any appreciation of the currency but to protect us against downside. And we do continue to do that, even in the environment in which we're in, on euro and Aussie dollar, sterling, et cetera.

MUHTAR KENT: And on acquisitions, Damian, look, it's absolutely not based on -- focused on a single geography. At any point in time, we're always talking with our group presidents around the world, like Poncho here and all of our other group presidents, about opportunities on a very, very regular basis. And then, if we see any opportunities, then our M&A team gets involved and will look at it very rapidly. So, it's not related to a focus in North America or international per se. It's across the globe.

DAMIAN WITKOWSKI: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: The next question is from Mark Swartzberg from Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, Gary, a question on marketing spend per case globally. If we think about that number on a currency-neutral basis, am I right in thinking that number was up in the quarter? And can you tell us how much it was up or at least tell us how it compared to rate of growth in the first quarter and in '08?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, good morning. I think you see us continuing to drive efficiencies in our OpEx line and you see us continuing to invest. I've said before, this is -- there's no better time to invest in our brands than today. And we are looking -- we are trying to ensure that we manage this business on both a long-term basis and a short-term basis, on a quarterly basis. But one of the key drivers of what we're doing every day is to make sure that we come out of this crisis stronger, stronger with our brands, stronger with our system, than when we went into this crisis. We're driving efficiencies in media.

So when you look at our spend, it was about even for Q2 in marketing. In 17 of our top 21 countries in the world, we drove efficiencies in marketing. That means our GRP costs were down and therefore, look at our marketing spend with a view that there's tremendous pressure on pricing in terms of advertising. So we're getting really good deals in all markets. In Europe, particularly. In Latin America, Poncho has driven efficiencies, together with Joe Tripodi, our Chief Marketing Officer, in media programs. So, I think that's the way you should look at our media spend and our marketing spend.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And then, what about impressions? What would you say rate of change on that is, given the efficiencies you're seeing?

MUHTAR KENT: I think that, our idea -- our target is always to get more for our money and steadily build up our impressions.

MARK SWARTZBERG: And is that happening?

MUHTAR KENT: Absolutely and that's why you see our brand health improving around the world.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thanks, Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT: One more question, I think.

OPERATOR: Yes. The last question comes from Ann Gurkin from Davenport.

ANN GURKIN, ANALYST, DAVENPORT & COMPANY: Good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

ANN GURKIN: First of all, we've heard some comments that perhaps consumption of soft drinks in the on-premise channel in China is slowing. So, if you could comment on that? And then secondly, switching back to the US, any comments on the prospects for a tax on soft drinks and what is Coke doing and the industry doing to combat that?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, on China, I -- we haven't seen that happening. I think what you see is in China not a shift in channels but your shift in geographies. We have traditionally, the stronger parts of China for our business have been the coast, have been the export-driven areas of China. And I think some of that dynamism of growth have shifted to the inland, as more consumers have moved in fairly large numbers, millions and millions. Tens of millions of consumers have shifted and moved back into the country into their home towns. But now with the very effective stimulus plan of China, those consumers have more money to spend and I think we're seeing a shift from the coast into more central and western cities but not shifts in channels.

As far as -- I think what you referenced is the possible tax issue around nonalcoholic beverages. And I think we're certainly doing our fair share to impress upon all parties concerned that this would not be the right move and that we've never seen a move like that work. And we don't believe it will work this time. And I think that right now as far as the Congress bill is concerned, there's no evidence of it in the Congress bill and we are waiting to see what happens in the Senate bill.

ANN GURKIN: All right, thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: So with that, I'd like to thank you all. Thank Gary and Poncho and Jackson. As part of our continued efforts to provide you with a deep exposure of costs, our business. I hope that you have found the information that we've shared with you today valuable. Additionally, I'd like to say also that Ahmet Bozer, our Group President for our Eurasia and Africa Group, will be speaking on behalf of the Company at the upcoming Barclays Conference in early September. As you can tell, all of us at The Coca-Cola Company see tremendous opportunity and remain intently focused on our key strategic priorities to generate long-term sustainable growth. Our robust business model is built to withstand tough times. Great companies always plan with external trends in mind but do not overreact. While these trends help shape the future, the Coca-Cola system is creating its own future. And as we move through the halfway mark of 2009, we remain optimistic about our business and the future we are creating together with our system for long-term sustainable growth. Thanks for joining us this morning and have a great day.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i6571 : Vending Machine Operators | i657 : Non-store Retailers | i428 : Soft Drinks | i371 : Measuring/Precision Instruments | i3247 : Automatic Vending Machines | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | iretail : Retail
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | gcon : Consumer Affairs | cbrand : Branding | c151 : Earnings | gpersf : Personal Finance | e1117 : Business Sentiment | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | moranj : Orange Juice Markets | mtea : Tea Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mfruit : Fruit Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090804e57l000rv
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,303 words
   PD
21 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2009 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. And now, I'd like to introduce Mr. Jackson Kelly, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

   TD
JACKSON KELLY, DIRECTOR IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by, Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning by Muhtar and Gary, we will turn the call over to you for questions. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC report.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company Website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com, under the financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results, as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look on our Website for this information. I would now like to turn the call over to Muhtar Kent.

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson and good morning everyone. Before we get into an overview of our performance, let me just start by saying how humbled and honored I am to take on the additional role and responsibility of Chairman of the Board for our Company and honored to succeed my good friend, Neville Isdell, in this capacity. Future histories written about Coca-Cola will show that Neville helped lead our Company out of some very tough times. His statesmanship and passion for improving the environmental, social and economic well-being of our planet has been invaluable for everyone touched by our Company, our system and our brands.

I am pleased to report another solid quarter of growth for the Coca-Cola Company despite severe global economic headwinds. We again exceeded our long-term profit targets, delivered volume growth in line with our expectations and executed on productivity initiatives ahead of schedule. Importantly, we delivered consistent and balanced top and bottom line performance results. Globally, our unit case volume increased 2%, successfully cycling 6% growth in the first quarter of last year. Our international operations increased volume 3%, cycling 8%. These sound results reflect a Company-wide disciplined focus on balancing the volume / value equation to deliver consistent, quality revenue and operating income growth.

We delivered quarterly revenue growth of 7% and operating profit growth of 17% on an ongoing currency neutral basis. Our worldwide team continued to drive productivity initiatives and cost savings throughout the business, routinely adjusting and tweaking our actions to changing market conditions. We remain well on track to deliver $500 million in annualized savings from these productivity initiatives by year end 2011. The continued acceleration of these efforts is enabling our cash to be redeployed to drive investments for growth. As expected, global currency fluctuations negatively impacted results this quarter. We continued to monitor this volatility and actively manage this risk where appropriate. As a reminder, we manage our global businesses in local currencies in order to make more effective decisions that deliver long-term sustainable growth.

Our international markets remain significant contributors to our solid performance results. Our systems reach provides expanding opportunities to touch more and more customers every day and in turn, create new revenue streams for our sparkling, as well as still brands. The Company achieved unit case volume growth across a diverse geographic footprint. Many key markets delivered at or above expectations this quarter, with Mexico up 6% and Brazil growing 4%, both cycling 11% growth from prior year. Northwest Europe was up 3% on strong performance in Great Britain. Also, Korea increased 5% as our new bottling partner continued to improve execution in the marketplace.

We continue to gain strength in many emerging markets. In our 120 countries with per caps less than 150, our volume growth was 4% for the quarter, cycling 10% in the prior year. India was up 31% and China up 10%, both cycling double-digit growth. In Southeast Asia, Thailand was up 7% and Vietnam, 8%, while Nigeria was up 6% and southern Eurasia, 7%. Importantly, our highly experienced operating team continued to navigate current challenges by making well-focused, disciplined decisions, geared towards further building our brands.

The real strength of our franchise model is demonstrated in difficult times and we are working harder than ever to continue to bring value to our consumers and customers. All these efforts and opportunities are supported by a very strong balance sheet. This provides us the flexibility to leverage opportunities this environment may offer and to continue rewarding our share owners with consistent dividend growth. Unlike many companies that decided to cut dividends during this difficult period, we announced an 8% increase in dividends per share, the 47th consecutive annual increase. I'm pleased to report that our system is more aligned than ever before. The franchise model, in its broadest sense, is still the best way to win in the marketplace. It gives us the focus we need, the global breadth and scale and the local leadership.

Nothing is more important than exceeding our customers' expectations and selling our brand portfolio every single day in every single outlet. We continue to work closely with our bottling partners to improve our capabilities, to further strengthen our brand and leverage our significant marketing and distribution investments. With established market presence far beyond our nearest competitor, we are in a uniquely strong position to drive continued solid growth. And with a system that generates up to $50 million in cash every day, we will continue to invest in our system and make it stronger. Together, with our bottling partners and customers, we remain committed to executing real equity building brand propositions to ensure we emerge from these difficult times even stronger.

Simply said, as the world's leading beverage Company, we strive to create brand value through world class integrated marketing, innovation and segmented execution with our customers. While our competitors may choose a different path, through heavy price discounting and promotion, we do not believe this builds enduring brand equity that sustains our business. As we have said before, brand health and share gains will be key success matrix over the coming year. In fact, once again this quarter, we gained nonalcoholic ready to drink volume and value share, marking the seventh consecutive quarter of globally winning share in both.

Despite tough market conditions, we continued to outperform the industry across most key categories and are aggressively looking for opportunities to profitably gain share from competitors. Our brands held scores, which measure consumers' favorite brands, continue to improve as we invest in our consumer marketing and activate at the point of sale, always striving to create the perfect shopper experience, outlet by outlet and market by market. We firmly believe our business will continue to experience growth across all categories and all geographies. Current population and personal expenditure trends indicate that consumers will increasingly have the opportunity to pause for the simple moments of pleasure that we already provide nearly 1.6 billion times a day for cents at a time. The global economic crisis, while big in scale and scope, has certainly been less daunting for businesses like ours that provide affordable, high velocity products that are a staple in consumers' daily lives.

For billions of consumers around the world, Coca-Cola and our other 500 brands remain an affordable luxury. This is a wonderful space to be in today and tomorrow. In my recent travels around the world, I've been encouraged by discussions I've had with leaders from various business and government sectors who all seem to be focused on cooperative multilateral approaches to solving the global economic crisis. The recent G20 Summit was certainly reflective of this mood and we believe a harbinger of more positive actions to come. For these and other reasons, we feel good about not only weathering this crisis but preparing ourselves to come out of it stronger and more nimble than ever. I am confident that our strong brands and solid business fundamentals will enable our management team to meet our long-term target this year. Given the environment, however, there may be bumps along the way and we may experience some quarter-to-quarter volatility.

We credit our continued solid results to a consistent set of strategic priorities and these priorities are the foundation of our sustainable growth. First and foremost, we are focused on driving growth in sparkling and still beverages. Unit case volume for sparkling beverages, which are the oxygen of our business, was led by broad based international growth of 1%. Some highlights for sparkling beverage growth from around the world include Japan up 12%, India up 31%, Brazil up 3%, China 4%, Great Britain 9% and South Africa 2%. Coca-Cola, the world's most valuable and loved brand increased brand health scores in most of our key countries, including the US. And we gained sparkling beverage share across most of our key global markets. Coke Zero continued its success, increasing 14%. Sprite, now our third 2 billion unit case trademark, was driven by international growth of 5%, led by China, India and Egypt.

On the marketing front, our new Open Happiness campaign was launched. The campaign is successfully connecting the brand with key target audiences, teens and moms, driving recruitment and retention. As part of our fully integrated campaign, we released the Open Happiness single on iTunes. This spirited and positive single has already reached over 400,000 plays on MySpace Music and made it into the top 40 on the iTunes Pop Chart. Our still beverage unit case volume increased 9%, as we focused on organic growth of our mega brands and leveraged our recent strategic acquisitions.

Internationally, still beverages were up 13%. We gained still beverage volume and value share globally, driven by vitamin water and our global juice, tea, sports drinks and energy brands. We remain the world's number one juice and juice drinks Company and are gaining share with our key brands, Minute Maid pulpy, Minute Maid enhanced, Simply Orange and Jugos del Valle. Also, we recently announced an investment in Innocent, which has quickly become one of Britain's top brands by marketing its healthy ingredients and social commitments. While we are disappointed that we did not receive approval for the proposed Huiyuan acquisition, we remain firmly committed to our long-term growth model in China.

We have made significant incremental investments in the past several years and remain focused on driving organic growth across our still brands portfolio. Glaceau, led by Vitamin Water and Smart Water, continued to gain volume and value share, as we introduced Vitamin Water 10, the first ingredient innovation behind this dynamic brand. We will expand Vitamin Water's footprint aggressively including launches in 10 more international markets this year, bringing the total to 15.

Accelerating innovation is our second priority. We are applying new thinking to quickly, rapidly leverage our R&D investments across our global operations. For example, our breakthrough fountain dispensing technology, which we highlighted at CAGNY allows consumers to select from over 100 branded beverages. This product has entered into commercial testing in both Atlanta and Southern California. Our digital vending machine, which marries sight, sound and refreshment at the point of sale and was first used at the Beijing Olympic games, can now be found in selected malls across the United States.

Our third priority is leveraging our geographic footprint. During the quarter, we continued to perform well in Latin America, with our strong franchise model, delivering balanced growth, as well as sparkling and still share gains. Coca-Cola increased 2% and still beverages increased 33%, as we continued to integrate and expand the Jugos del Valle business. We remain optimistic about Latin America for the remainder of the year.

Japan held volume, outperforming the nonalcoholic beverage industry, resulting in our fourth consecutive quarter of share gains. Our success in growing sparkling continues with trademark Coca-Cola up 14% and Fanta up 16%. We expect to deliver consistent performance in this challenging climate and will continue to focus on our key mega brands in Japan, including further strengthening Georgia Coffee and returning Sokenbicha and Aquarius to consistent growth. The acquisition of a 50% stake in the Tone bottler will further improve our capabilities in the critical Kanto region.

Europe gained share in both sparkling and still categories and across key countries as the nonalcoholic ready to drink industry slowed, especially in away from home channels. And consumer confidence has been at historically low levels throughout the continent of Europe. That said, we remain focused on winning in the marketplace behind our key brands and executing programs to leverage the current economic environment. Strong performance in Great Britain was offset by central and Eastern Europe where economies were impacted by severe currency devaluations.

We continue to proactively navigate this environment using a number of Pan-European initiatives. For example, we are communicating value propositions by integrating advertising, in store and on-pack messaging for both immediate and future consumption packages. This approach is working well in Italy and is now being carried to France and Spain. We're also intensifying our promotional activity and in-store activation with new Coke and meals programs. The aim here is to drive traffic and educate our customers on the Coke value proposition, while maintaining margins.

In particular, we are using these tactics in Eastern Europe, to address rapidly shifting consumer shopping behavior. And finally, we're accelerating new product launches in many markets, including new packaging for our successful energy drinks and increasing multipack formats more broadly across Europe. We expect the retail environment in Europe to remain challenging throughout 2009. Our European leadership team continues to proactively identify opportunities to capture share and maintain a strict focus on strengthening brand health in order to emerge in an even stronger position from this crisis.

In North America, we again outperformed the industry, gaining volume share for the fifth consecutive quarter and value share for the second consecutive quarter. Our determination to become the undisputed beverage leader drove gains in sparkling and still beverages, led by our focus on juice, sports drinks and active lifestyle beverages, as well as teas. We have a clear and aligned system strategy for delivering sustainable growth and we are leading the industry in building value creating brands. Effective marketing campaigns have led to across the board increases in brand health, driven by the new Open Happiness consumer campaign for brand Coke, the NCAA Coke Zero March Madness activation and the Diet Coke Heart Truth integrated marketing program.

In addition, our still brands continued to lead the industry in overall growth for the seventh consecutive quarter, driven by a robust pipeline of innovation. We continue to see strong performance from Power Aid, Gold Peak tea and Minute Maid Enhanced, as well as Simply Chilled juices, which are fueling leadership growth in the category. Glaceau brands continued to gain share and we expect growth from this business for the remainder of 2009, as we leverage our new innovation and execute strong marketing programs. Our alignment with our North America bottling partners continues to strengthen and we have already progressed the strategy that we put into place almost two years ago.

Importantly, a number of strategic priorities that are designed to reshape the system's future are delivering tangible results. The $0.99 entry package, now available in over 60% of the US, is driving significantly more transactions and retailer dollar sales, while gaining share. We're also driving positive mix benefits in future consumption packages for our bottlers and customers. Also, our all-important tests for contoured two-liter packaging is being expanded across the south east and initial reads are very positive. The Coca-Cola supply Company is up and running, focusing initially on freight and logistics efficiencies and we expect to exceed year one targets.

We are excited about our strategy for North America and we are confident that we will return the business to growth while driving long-term profitability for our customers and for our system. Our picture of success, this year, remains clear. Number one, maintain focus on a consistent set of strategies with measurable deliverables. Second, increase the speed and efficiency of execution to capitalize on opportunities, while mitigating risk. And third, remain constructively discontent in all that we do in order to deliver against our long-term growth targets and enhance our long-term brand and system health.

I am pleased with the results we have delivered in the first quarter. We are performing with great result in this time of uncertainty and believe that we will come out of this period a much better Company and system than when we entered it. We remain relentlessly focused on effectively operating for the long-term in the best consumer business in the world. With that, let me turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP AND CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. Good morning everyone. As Muhtar indicated, the fundamentals of our business remain strong. We continued to gain share and enhance brand health. We're sustaining and improving our operational and financial discipline, while building on our firm foundation using consistent strategic priorities.

Our volume growth results were in line with our expectations and there was growth across a diverse geographic footprint. We delivered ahead of our long-term currency neutral profit target, increasing operating income 17%, cycling 8% last year. Reported operating income declined 1%, primarily related to the 17% currency headwind. We again delivered significant operating expense leverage in the quarter. This was driven by our continued focus on productivity, disciplined cost management and the benefit of revenue generated by the five additional selling days, without significant corresponding operating expenses. All of which, more than offset higher pension expense that we noted last quarter.

Looking at SG&A, we continued to invest solidly behind our brands, principally reinvesting savings to increase our share voice and build brands across integrated marketing initiatives. As outlined in our release, we reported earnings per share of $0.58 on a diluted basis for the first quarter. As expected, this included charges relating to our restructuring of the German bottling operations and ongoing productivity initiatives at both the Company and our equity investee bottlers. In total, we had a net charge of $0.07 per share in the quarter. Therefore, our adjusted EPS was $0.65 a share, a decrease of 3%, after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year and again, significantly impacted by currency.

Our results were impacted by the five additional selling days that we had this quarter, versus the prior year. This will reverse in the fourth quarter, which will have six fewer selling days as compared to last year. We estimate that even without the five extra selling days, we would have delivered currency neutral operating profit, essentially, at the high end of our long-term growth targets. Net revenue in the quarter decreased 3%, which included a negative 10% impact from currency and a 2% drag from structural changes, primarily related to our divestment of certain bottlers. At the same time, net revenues were positively impacted by a 7% increase in concentrate sales, partially reflecting the five extra selling days in the quarter, and a 2% increase from price and mix.

Now, let me move to currency. As I mentioned earlier, we saw a significant impact from currency in the first quarter. In fact, the 17% headwind was higher than what we had anticipated at our last earnings call in February. Despite some recent improvement, the dollar actually continued to strengthen significantly against many of the emerging market currencies following our call, increasing our unfavorable translation exposure. Specifically, as we look to the second quarter, we will begin to cycle the height of the euro's strength from last summer, which is more favorable than our current hedged rates. Therefore, based on current expectations, including the rates we're cycling and hedges in place for our key hard currencies, we anticipate a 14% to 16% currency headwind for the second quarter.

However, we're all observing the continued evolution of the market's risk perspectives, which may move to mute the attractiveness of the dollar as the year progresses. There are many different scenarios that could play out and I can assure you, we are carefully managing our risk and the corresponding opportunities. As Muhtar mentioned, we manage our business in local currency to ensure our operating management always makes the right investment decisions for the long term health of the business.

Now, let me address some of the factors that we see impacting the remainder of this year and specifically the second quarter. Our picture of success for 2009 remains to meet our long-term currency neutral profit growth targets. For the first half of 2009, we would expect to deliver in line with those targets. Based on our strong first quarter results, this implies the second quarter will be below our profit targets, due to timing of concentrate sales, higher pension costs and cycling lower incentive compensation costs in North America. Finally, we do not expect to drive additional leverage below operating income, due to the full impact of higher interest costs related to the $2.25 billion in term debt that we placed in March and the continued impact of currency on equity income from our bottler investees.

Let me reiterate, though, that we are confident in meeting our long-term targets for the year. We continue to have discussions with our Board about uses of cash. We're taking into consideration a number of factors, including the implications of the current global economic environment. And ensuring that we maintain our financial flexibility. We're considering options that will enable us to continue to pursue opportunities, such as Innocent, that may arise and/or reinstitute our share repurchase program. We'll keep you updated as we continue through the year.

Before I move to taxes, let me remind you of one last modeling point. As in the first quarter, our revenues will continue to be impacted due to structural changes, primarily related to the disposal of bottlers. We would expect a similar drag as we cycle the sale of the [Ramil] bottler in Brazil at the end of Q2, and the Pakistan bottler investment at the end of Q3.

Finally, on taxes, we ended the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate of 23.5% and we estimate our underlying effective rate will remain in the range of 23.5% for the remainder of the year. I know that current US budget proposal to substantially increase the taxation of income earned outside of the US is top of mind for many of you. However, it is too early to estimate any potential impacts, as the budget details have yet to be released. We are working alongside other multinational companies to inform the administration and Congress as to the negative impact of any such change on the competitiveness of US multinational companies and the impact on US jobs.

So, we're off to a good start in 2009. We recognize there may be some ups and downs over the course of the year, given the macroeconomic environment. However, we see real opportunity to leverage this environment and drive our business for the long term and build on our track record of success. Our seasoned management team remains committed to delivering profit targets, while driving share gains and further enhancing the health of our brands. We have a clear picture of success and believe that we have a skilled leadership team, with the right plan and the right capabilities to achieve our goals. Operator, that's what I have. Ready for any questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from John Faucher, J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: (Inaudible) North American bottlers --?

MUHTAR KENT: John, we couldn't hear the beginning of the question.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Just a follow-up on PepsiCo's announcement yesterday about purchasing PAS and PBG. Obviously, you've had this hospital ward policy for the past four or five years. Can you talk about sort of any thoughts you have about what PepsiCo is trying to do? How it affects you competitively? Realizing that it's fairly short notice here. And then looking out, do you feel like you need to make any changes to the hospital ward policy in terms of maybe holding onto some of these bottlers longer or even consolidating the US?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Thanks, John. I will not comment on anyone other than what we are trying to do. What I'd like to say here is that I believe the question that you're really asking is; Do we believe we have the right system structure, particularly in North America? And as I said earlier, fundamentally, we believe the franchise model is the best way to win in the marketplace. We're pleased with the positive forward momentum we're generating here in North America and the spirit of collaboration with our bottlers, not just here in North America but across the whole world, has never been better. We're aligned with all our bottling partners to take costs out of the system, reshape our brand, price, pack, channel architecture here in North America. That is beginning to yield results.

And this is not something that we've just been doing in the last few months. We've been at this for the last two years, working very hard with CCE's leadership. And in fact, some of the things that have been -- that were announced yesterday, we're taking cost savings already -- significant cost savings out of our key initiatives with our principal bottling partners here in North America, the supply chain company is up and running. I think you've heard before, in calls, that that's going to generate over $150 million of synergies for our system. And that now, basically, bottlers representing almost 90% of our business in the US are participating in this initiative. The incidents model that, again almost 90% of our bottlers are participating, 85% plus, is yielding very good results, eliminating duplication.

The fountain harmony and outlet service solution initiative that we have embarked upon with, again, Coca-Cola Enterprises' leadership are yielding results. They will generate an additional $50 million to $75 million of synergies that, again, you've heard about before. So I think, what I'd like to just reiterate, is that correcting a systemic issue does not happen overnight. It starts with a sound long-term strategic focus, aligning with bottlers on the picture of success. And as I said, we've been working on this for the last two years. Our new initiatives are yielding good results in the marketplace. We feel that all our bottlers are executing with much more precision, much more passion. And we're just beginning now to see the results and we feel confident that the localized approach of bottling, coupled with our global reach and our harmonious marketing programs are yielding very good results for us.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. And if I could ask just one quick follow-up on that, then. You talked about the new incidents based pricing model in the US working. Should we expect to see that extended over the next couple of years?

MUHTAR KENT: Extended to where?

JOHN FAUCHER: Just from a time standpoint. My understanding is it's not necessarily something that's viewed --?

MUHTAR KENT: If something is working, there's absolutely no reason not to assume that it would not be extended. And it is working. I reiterate, it is working.

JOHN FAUCHER: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bill Pecoriello, Consumer Edge. Your line is open.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, CONSUMER EDGE: Thanks, good morning everyone. Muhtar, I wanted to follow up just on the North America. You made it clear that you have your strategy and your game plan on how to win in the market. But if PepsiCo is able to be more flexible en route to market, let's say take Gatorade pricing down, which could have implications for Vitamin Water and have a large savings pool to reinvest; Are there things that you can do in terms of accelerating that $150 million supply chain and other actions you can take with your strategy to make sure that you remain competitive, while they go through and have this big savings pool to reinvest back in? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, as I said, Bill, in answer to John's question, we will do everything to ensure that our strategy works, our strategy wins, creates wins for our bottling partners, principally for our customers. And ensures that we are able to deliver the best brands to our consumers through the most effective production and distribution system and sales system in North America. And we will ensure that we apply our leadership thinking to that.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Christine Farkas, Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Hello, Muhtar and Gary. I wanted to follow up on North America. Specifically, we saw very good food service trends, up 3% in food service and fountain. I'm wondering if you can clarify really where that traffic came from? Is that QSR related? And then, on the same line. The retail volumes still being down, what's your outlook for pricing as we go into the summer months? Just broad picture, along with some packaging innovation that you've put into the marketplace. And comment on how Monster has potentially contributed in your first quarter, both here and abroad. Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, starting with food service, Christine, all I can tell you is that we've got great programs working with our food service customers to extending our portfolio. Category extension, smoothies, teas are really working very well for us. And also our new cup programs are generating very good traffic results for us, as well as incidents increases in QSR. So it's primarily driven by QSR. And of course, most of our-most of our customer base is actually doing well in this environment and we hope we are contributing somewhat to that -- to those results for our customers. And we're getting the benefit, also, with the extension of categories and our marketing programs working effectively. And I do believe that perhaps they are -- the QSR is getting some benefit, although still to be verified from the lower gas prices. So, that's on food service.

Next, in terms of the pricing, as we go into the quarter, I think that -- don't think of pricing as a certain price of a certain pack. I think you need to think of it as basically mix management. And we're seeing some great results from our new packaging initiatives, particularly on immediate consumption. And I think that also, we are driving principally value share up in our business. And I think that you will see us continue to drive value shares throughout the summer with effective mix management, both in the future consumption channels, as well as immediate consumption channels. And then, I think the last question you had was on Monster. I think it's early days to talk about Monster. We've just -- it's just come into our system. But initial reads on Monster are positive, both here in North America, as well as what's happening in Northwest Europe.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Carlos Laboy, Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning everyone. Muhtar, could you revisit for us your view of your soft drink integration, whether it's evolving as ABI encroaches on more of your bottling owners that happen to have beer? And the reason I'm asking the question, in part, is because some of your bottler brewers have been increasing their discourse on the need for integration of beer and soft drinks.

MUHTAR KENT: My view of soft drinks integration has not changed since the day that I was managing a brewer and a bottling business. And that is that strategic functions need to be separated and you can absolute -- if there are synergies in non-strategic areas, like freight, like warehousing, like back office, I think that, in this day and age, you cannot leave those on the table. You've got to take advantage of those. But at the front end, which is -- you're talking about a different consumer, a different consumption habit, I think it is absolutely important to keep the strategic functions dedicated to each side. That's basically my view on that and I think you've heard me say that before, Carlos.

CARLOS LABOY: Muhtar, but do you see low hanging fruit within the scope of what you're willing to accept still out there to be grabbed? And do you see an opportunity for that to accelerate volume growth for soft drinks?

MUHTAR KENT: Providing that they are inside that corridor that I've talked about, yes.

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg, Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks. Good morning everyone. Gary, I was hoping to get a little more granularity on your currency view for '09. I presume you're still 100% covered on the euro and the yen. Can you give us some more detail on coverage for other hard currencies, including the pound?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Mark. We are essentially covered on euro, yen. We also do have coverage on sterling and we would also have some coverage on Canadian dollar, Aussie dollar. But what you're seeing is a combination of several different factors. Number one, going into the second quarter, obviously, our coverage, which we normally put on at the end of a year is significantly lower than what we're cycling, which was the height of the strength of the euro last year, when it got up to EUR1.55, EUR1.57, something like that, to $1. So that's a big piece of what we're going to see in the second quarter.

The other piece is the emerging emerging markets, where it's really too expensive to put much hedge coverage on. And in those emerging markets, we saw them tank overall in the first quarter. We've seen some of them come back. If you look at that time peso, it went from, what, probably 10.5 last year, it got over 15, like 15.2, early this year. It came back down to about 13 and now it's about 13.5 in the last couple of days. So a lot of those emerging market currencies, while they really devalued significantly, they're starting to come back some but now we're having to cycle the strength of the euro. They're coming back some but nowhere near where they were a a year ago.

With that said, we know -- or we believe over time, and the question is when, the dollar will have to reverse course. With the kind of deficits the US Government is running, the dollar has to reverse. The question is; When? And a lot of that is the risk aversion in the markets, obviously. And you saw some of that happen yesterday, as the dollar strengthened again, as gold went up again. Let me assure you, we're watching it closely. The first quarter was obviously worse than we thought it was going to be in that 10 to 12. And what I would tell you is that in the first quarter, in fact, if you took the top 10 currencies, everything else, the ones you never even think about, everything else was probably 1/3 of what we saw happen. And that's where some of that negative surprise came from. But we're watching it. We're watching it closely. And I think we've got a pretty good handle on it, although none of us like it, that's kind of of where it is today.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And one technical thing on the pound and the Canadian dollar. Were you saying that you're fully covered for those for the balance of the year or were you say partially covered?

GARY FAYARD: Partially covered.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Got it. Great. Thanks, Gary.

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Lauren Torres, HSBC. Your line is open.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. I was hoping you could talk a bit about your efforts to stabilize your markets, particularly Central and Eastern Europe. Curious to get your thoughts, Muhtar on these markets, particularly Russia. Have you seen any signs of improvement or at least stabilization? And once again, if you could just kind of talk about efforts there to rebuild the momentum you previously had, that would be helpful. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: I think certainly Russia, Ukraine, very hard-hit by the current crisis. Not too dissimilar to the consumer sentiment that we saw in August 1998 and that crisis. Of course, now, a much bigger scale because in 1998 there was maybe 1 million people qualified to be middle class consumers in Russia. Today, there's more than 20 million. And therefore, it's impacting it in a much bigger way. But certainly, new price points, shifting to affordable packages and also focusing very much, again, on the customer in terms of our marketing strategies. And we're fully aligned, again, with our -- with Coca-Cola Hellenic in terms of how to come out of this crisis. And I think that the first half of '09 certainly will be the worst part of the crisis, as far as we can tell. And we're gaining share. I think that's important in both -- all categories, particularly, in the still beverage categories in Russia.

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. And if I could just ask a quick question to Gary. Just curious why, at this point, you're not re-instating the share repurchase program? I know it was suspended as a result of the acquisition in China. Now, that's off the table, why aren't you re-instating it at this point?

GARY FAYARD: Lauren, it's something we'll actually be discussing with our Board. We've got our Board meeting later this week but at the same time, I think it's a combination of things. And don't worry, it is not lost on us that the aftertax cost of borrowing would be cheaper than the dividend. So, I get it on share repurchase. But I also recognize that in these kind of times, these macroeconomic conditions, you want to continue to have a very strong balance sheet. You want to have financial flexibility.

We are seeing some, albeit small, but we are seeing opportunities like the Innocent deal, where if I take Innocent as an example, 18 months ago we knew it was a great brand. 18 months ago, we called on them and they wouldn't even talk to us. And today, we are a strategic investor alongside Innocent management. So there are going to be some opportunities. Our goal of this is to come out much stronger. We're going to reinvest in the business. And then, we've always viewed share repurchase as a residual. If there are not reinvestment opportunities to drive the long-term value for our shareholders through the business results, then we would look at share repurchase. It is on the table. It is something we're looking at and it is something we'll keep you apprised of as we go through the year.

MUHTAR KENT: Just let me add one sentence to that. I think our principle focus is to grow our top line effectively in every environment, hard or good. And I think you see us focused on that. You're not hearing us saying we won't do it. We're just not committing to it. And as Gary said, we'll be talking about it with our Board actively and then, you'll hear back from us.

LAUREN TORRES: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: We have a question from Celso Sanchez, Citi. Your line is open.

CELSO SANCHEZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, hi. Good morning. Just a bit of an update, you gave us a little bit of one on the North American business a few minutes ago. I think you talked about the incidents roll-out, 85% plus. The first part of the question is, is that intended to go towards 100% or are you pretty comfortable with where it is now? And then, I have, on the fountain business, also if you could give us an update, I think because last quarter you talked about 20% dual customer calling with CCE. And that you're moving to a single model. Could you just update us on how that's progressing? It sounds like you're pleased with the progress but maybe a number would be helpful. Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think that today, our incidents-based concentrate pricing model covers almost 85% plus of our bottling business in the United States and I think that it is working well. It is eliminating, basically, unnecessary energy that goes into discussions and focuses all our energy jointly on the marketplace, on the customer. It's working well. And I think that that's already a very good percent of the -- of our bottling network that's engaged in this effort of incidents-based concentrate pricing. So, I think we will just evolve it along the way. But certainly, the early signs of it in implementation is very positive with all our bottling partners that are participating in that.

CELSO SANCHEZ: Is 100% the target?

MUHTAR KENT: I think that certainly, what we see is that we've got a very good coverage, very quickly. And basically, the rest of the bottling partners in the United States are on old contracts, so I think that you would assume that 90% is -- where we are today is a very good number.

CELSO SANCHEZ: Okay. Thanks. And then on the fountain, please?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, on fountain, it is clearly one of the important initiatives, fountain harmony. And we have dual customer calling, as you've said, in 20% of CCE territory and we've begun to move to a single call model in one market to improve value to our customer system. It's still in early stages. You can call it an active commercial test and as we progress it, we will take it and expand it other territories.

CELSO SANCHEZ: Is there a time line targeted for the kind of phase in of that?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, we've said that both from outlet service solutions and fountain harmony, the objective is for our system between CCE and us to generate between $50 million to $75 million of synergies. And we will be on target to ensure that we create that between now and 2011.

OPERATOR: We have a question from Judy Hong, Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Muhtar, can you just talk about China in the quarter? 10% volume growth is still pretty healthy but saw sequential slowdown from the fourth quarter, that was up 29% or so. So, if you can just talk about what you're seeing in that market? Pepsi talked about yesterday some of the regional differences. If you could give us a little bit more color there, that would be great.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, certainly with what's happening in China, we are happy and content with double-digit growth. Cycling 20% from prior year. The slower growth is due to both Chinese New Year timing and certainly, there is some slowing in the economy. We've continued to gain sparkling and still beverage volume and value share in the quarter. and we continue to invest for the long-term in the marketplace. As I've said, we've announced a $2 billion investment program over the next three years. That's on target. And we're getting balanced growth across the portfolio. Still beverages were up 28%. A very healthy 28%. And our sparkling beverages were in mid-single digits.

JUDY HONG: And Gary, in North America in the first quarter, huge margin expansion that you saw, can you just maybe help us understand what drove that?

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Judy, it's really a combination of two things. One, is the five extra days. And remember, that proportionately, North America is heavier in finished products than most of our other operating groups. And with those five days, you would see a lot more margin flowing through from that. The second thing, I'd point out, is there's some timing in some SG&A items that will reverse in the second quarter. And so, that's part of what I was talking about on the second quarter as well. So, it's an anomaly in the quarter. They had very good results, particularly compared to the way the US market performed, gaining share. But I would say, you should look at North America probably over the first half as we get through the second quarter.

JUDY HONG: Okay. And Gary, just a follow-up on currency. Can you give us the full year impact at this point? The 14 to 16 points sounds like it's just more of a second quarter. If you can give us --?

GARY FAYARD: Well, Judy, the 14 to 16 is definitely a second quarter. Let me be the first to say, I said 10 to 12. It ended up 17 and that was a week later. It moved that much on me from our second quarter call and a week later I realize it had jumped significantly. I don't think anyone can tell you what currency is going to be for the full year. The rates moved significantly yesterday. We saw the euro, which had been really weak over the last month or so, really start strengthening, getting up to EUR1.32, EUR1.34 and now it's back to EUR1.29 yesterday. So, it's anybody's guess. I don't think -- I wouldn't take anybody's forecast today, to tell you the truth. I think a quarter is about as far as you can go in this volatility.

JUDY HONG: And Gary, just to clarify, it's all translational, there's nothing in terms of your cost structure that, in some of these emerging markets where your local costs are -- so, your costs are more in US dollars versus your local revenues?

GARY FAYARD: It is primarily all translational. There is some transactional but very small amounts. It would be where we've got expatriate employees that are paid in dollars but that's minor. Some of the ingredient costs are in dollar -- dollar-based, so there's some of it but not that much. It's primarily all just from translation.

JUDY HONG: Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: We have a question from Damian Witkowski , Gabelli & Company. Your line is

DAMIAN WITKOWSKI, ANALYST, GABELLI & COMPANY: Thanks, good morning. Just a quick question, following up on China. Are you seeing currently or are you anticipating any issues with new manufacturing capacity coming online? Meaning, getting permits, et cetera, in China?

MUHTAR KENT: Damian, no. We don't see any issues around there. In fact, this year, very soon, I'll be in China again opening two brand-new bottling plants that are coming onstream. So I don't see any issues and I think our bottlers' appetite for continuing to invest ahead of the curve and ensuring that we can have the capacity for both our still beverage footprint that is growing very rapidly. And ensuring that we have the right infrastructure for producing all our beverages. The bottlers' appetite is there to continue staying ahead of the curve.

DAMIAN WITKOWSKI: And just on eastern Europe, going back to your comments that you made earlier, you said there was a rapidly shifting change in consumer behavior. And I'm wondering if it's -- are you talking about channel shift? They're shopping in different places or is it just they're not shopping -- they're shopping less?

MUHTAR KENT: I think they're shopping less and they're shopping differently, both. Shopping less, the traffic in -- whether it's kiosks, markets or malls, are less. And then, people are spending much more time at home, which is not really too different a phenomena across western markets, either. But certainly, it's, I think, deeper in eastern Europe right now. Whether it is -- you're talking about Hungary or Czech Republic or whether you're talking about Russia or Romania. And so, what we have are lots of value creating promotions, transactional promotions at the point of sale and offering more value to consumers, linking up with more entertainment at home and home deliveries, et cetera. So, we're doing a lot of programs, shifting a lot of programs to ensure that we can keep up with and be ahead of consumers' changing behaviors in eastern Europe. But again, it's taking a while to -- for us to see those results but we feel pretty confident that the deepness of the curve is going to even out as we move into the second half of the year.

DAMIAN WITKOWSKI: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala, UBS. Your line is open.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Two regions that really look like they stand out in terms of your performance versus the category are Latin America and northwestern Europe. So, can you provide some insights on if there's anything specific going on there? And particularly, as it relates to western Europe, how sustainable the current growth rates are? And then last thing, just to be clear on the buyback Gary, I understand your reservations but is the bottom line that you just have not yet met with the Board?

GARY FAYARD: Okay. Why don't I take that one first? On share repurchase, we've -- the Board meeting specifically is on Thursday of this week. We'll be talking with them about our plans. But again, we are maintaining flexibility and keeping our options open. So, we could re-enter share repurchase. If we do, we'll notify you and let you know, probably on the next quarter call. But again, keeping financial flexibility, because there are a lot of opportunities in this environment as well.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it. And the other questions?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think on Europe, Kaumil, it's again, not a uniform picture, eastern Europe we just talked about. As far as western Europe is concerned, we see, again, good momentum in northwest Europe. And in south Europe, it's again, the crisis came earlier and we're certainly seeing the effect of that. And also Germany, in terms of price deflation and the consumer sentiment is negative. But I would say that, basically, we are number one, gaining share, very importantly. We're focused on our execution of our strategies, expanding our still beverage footprint. We're gaining still beverage volume and value share in the quarter in Europe. Still beverages were up 4% for the quarter, juices, teas, sports drinks, water, in terms of our still beverage portfolio. And we're seeing a strong discounter presence and we're expanding our presence in hard discounters across Europe. So that's our strategy and we believe that, certainly, I think that we'll come out much stronger with both our brand health, as well as our share in Europe. In Latin America, we've got tremendous bottler alignment. And as I said in my remarks, we feel confident that we will continue our momentum in both sparkling and still beverages in Latin America.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Okay. Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: So, what I'd like to just say now is that our focus in our -- in this challenging and dynamic environment is to proactively and successfully drive our strategic agenda. Our robust business model is built to withstand tough times and we remain confident that we have the right strategies, have the right plans and leadership team to do just that. So in 2009, we will continue to do what we have done for the past 123 years, remain resolute in creating sustainable growth and value for our shareowners. Thanks for joining us this morning and we wish you all a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with the Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the Company's Website, the coca-colacompany.com. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090505e54l000ul
  


 HD
 Q4  2008 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,071 words
   PD
12 February 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's Fourth Quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. All participants will be in a listen only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. (Operator Instructions) Participants will be announced by their name & Company. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I'd like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.

And now I'd like to introduce Mr. Jackson Kelly, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Kelly, you may begin.

   TD
JACKSON KELLY, VP, DIRECTOR OF IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning by Muhtar and Gary, we'll turn the call over for your questions.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our Earnings Release and in the Company's most recent periodic SEC reports. In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company's website at www.theCoca-ColaCompany.com under the financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our Senior Executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Please look at our website for this information.

Now, let me turn the call over to Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jackson, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report that we have delivered another quarter and year of strong financial performance. This marks our ninth consecutive quarter of double digit comparable EPS growth and the third straight year of meeting or exceeding our long term growth targets.

Our results reflect the hard work and dedication of our global system through this incredibly challenging economic environment. Together with our bottling partners, we are assertive and flexible in terms of managing our business, focusing strategies, accelerating actions, redirecting investments, and being prudent with our capital and other expenditures, while maintaining a disciplined long term approach to our operations. Our performance for the quarter and full year underscore our firm belief that there's no better business to be in than non-alcoholic commercial beverages.

In a challenging environment, we added another billion incremental unit cases in volume essentially another Japan, our fifth largest volume market. We firmly believe our industry will continue to experience growth across all categories and geographies as macro population and personal expenditure trends still highly favor the simple moments of pleasure we bring to our consumers over 1.5 billion times a day at cents at a time. Strong, decisive execution based on focused strategies enabled us to deliver continued global volume and value share gains across key geographies as well as categories.

As we all manage through these globally challenging times, volume and value share gains will continue to be critical benchmarks for our performance progress. We remain on track to deliver $0.5 billion in annualized savings from productivity initiatives by 2011. The continued acceleration of these efforts are going to enable our cash to be redeployed to drive investments for sustainable growth. And there's no question that this year will pose unique macroeconomic challenges for all businesses.

That said, we are not content to just ride out the storm. Rather, we will leverage this as an opportunity to further build the equity of our brands and drive value for our system and customers. Our highly skilled management team has navigated through a very difficult operating conditions around the world before and is well equipped to run our operations in these challenging times.

I'm confident that our solid brands as well as our business fundamentals coupled with a sound balance sheet, robust cash generating model, and strong bottling partners spread across all five continents, provide a sound foundation for our management team to continue delivering against our long term targets this year and position our Company and our system to become even stronger over the long term.

Looking at this past quarter and year, we delivered 4% unit case growth for the past quarter and 5% unit case growth for the full year 2008. Our international operations again lead the way with 6% volume growth for both the quarter and full year. In close, close collaboration with our bottling partners, we're building from a strong competitive position with share that is three times that of our nearest competitor to drive continued solid international growth. This growth was well balanced across the entire globe as each of our five geographic operating groups out paced the industry for the year, resulting in consistent top and bottom line performance. By any measure, we continue to believe these are strong results. We credit our performance to a consistent set of strategic initiatives.

Now I'd like to take you through some of the progress we've made against those strategic initiatives. First, drive growth in sparkling and still beverages. Sparkling beverages are the very oxygen of our business as I've said many times. Unit case volume for sparkling beverages grew 2% for the full year with our international performance up 4%, representing incremental growth of half a billion unit cases last year. Full year global performance was driven by Coca-Cola up 2%, Coca-Cola Zero up 35% with nearly 600 million unit cases sold, Sprite which became our third trademark to reach two billion unit cases and annual volume was up 6% lead by countries like China and India and Fanta driven by innovation was up 3%.

Coca-Cola continues to be the brand that consumers love most around the world with a 3:1 favored brand preference versus our global competitor. Our Olympic sponsorship is a great, great example of how incremental investments have an exponential impact on building the global equity of our powerful brands. During the most successful Olympic activation in our history, we connected with more than half a billion consumers in China and we're cited by many as the most recognized and effective sponsor of the Beijing games. Also we are continuing to build on the heritage as well as the incredible global appeal of our flagship brand with the recent launch of our new worldwide Open Happiness campaign. This exciting new integrated Marketing campaign is the Next Generation of the Coke side of life and stays true to Coca-Cola's 123 year heritage while opening new doors to connect with consumers around the world in a relevant and timely manner.

Again, this year, our ads rated highly during Super Bowl and importantly, Open Happiness will be leveraged globally with launches in most of our key markets by mid 2009. Importantly, we gained sparkling beverage share globally for the quarter and the year across most of our key global markets. Our still beverage unit case volume increased 13% for the year driven by strong growth in existing brands and several strategic brand acquisitions. Internationally, still beverages were up 17%. Still beverage growth across each of our operating groups drove category volume and value share gains globally. Leading the way were gains by Vitamin Water and our global juice, tea, coffee, as well as energy brands.

Our strategy to build on the world's strongest juice business continues to succeed. Minute Maid pulpy already a huge success in China is being expanded to several other key international markets. Here in North America, our multi-tier juice strategy continues to out perform the category and drive share gains. The simply trademark is quickly approaching billion dollar brand status. Our Latin American acquisitions are providing growth and scale to drive efficiencies for our bottling partners.

In 2008 we continued to innovate with new brand launches such as the successful Original Leaf Tea in China. We're also leveraging our partnership with Illy and launching this ready to drink coffee in ten markets with close collaboration with our bottling partner, Coca-Cola Hellenic. Glasso lead by Vitamin Water remains well on track to become a $2 billion trademark through continued volume and value share gains and we have several new product innovations in store for this year. We grew Glasso double digits in the quarter as well as full year in the US while expanding this great brand to five international markets in 2008. And finally, better marketing focus drove performance for our critically important Georgia Coffee brand in Japan. Unit case volume for Georgia grew 2% for the year in 2008 driven by 9% growth in key core Georgia flavors.

Before I move on to a summary of our geographies, let me briefly touch on two innovations that many of you will get to experience at the upcoming CAGNY conference next week in Florida. One in ingredients and the other in equipment. In 2008, we announced two significant advances. First, the introduction of products sweetened with Trevi and all natural non-nutritive sweetener. We've already launch several products, two new Odwalla flavors along with Sprite Green, the first sparkling beverage enhanced with this breakthrough sweetener. Also we're announcing the launch of Vitamin Water Ten, the perfect combination of ten naturally sweetened calories and great taste.

Second, last September, we unveiled our breakthrough fountain dispensing technology that empowers consumers to select from over 100 branded beverages in the same footprint as our current six valve fountain. Through unique design and microdosing technology, this is surely something you'll want to try firsthand at the CAGNY conference next week. These are just two examples of how The Coca-Cola Company is applying new thinking and new ways of quickly leveraging our R&D investments across our global operations.

We continue to leverage our geographic footprint in over 200 countries where our threefold strategy is focused on first leveraging our share leadership position for profit in developed markets. Second driving value as we achieve scale in developing markets. And investing for volume growth in the emerging markets. Let me share a few highlights from some key markets.

In Japan, we delivered our largest unit case volume year on record, successfully cycling 3% growth in the prior year, resulting in non-alcoholic commercial beverage share gains. We continue to invest in our three cola strategy and this investment paid off with the 5% growth of sparkling beverages during the year, lead by trademark Coca-Cola. Europe grew 3% for the year cycling 5%, continuing our successful efforts to gain share in both sparkling and still categories, continued expansion of Coke Zero with strong pan-European Marketing platforms such as our 007 Bond activation and the Christmas activation on Coca-Cola drove our sparkling beverage growth.

And in Latin America which is a great example of how we achieve scale in a developing market very rapidly. We delivered solid balanced growth with all Latin America business units delivering mid to high single digit unit case volume growth and share gains for the year. Coca-Cola increased 4% and still beverages increased 40% as we continued to leverage the regionally important [Coco Savalla] acquisition. In Russia, unit case volume increased slightly for the year primarily reflecting the impact from unseasonable weather during the summer and economic pressures at year-end. Despite the slowdown of volume growth in Russia, we gained volume and value share in non-alcoholic ready to drink beverages in the quarter and full year.

The fundamentals of our business in this key market remain very strong. In Turkey one of our leading emerging markets we increased unit case volume 11% in the quarter and 15% in the full year as we benefited from the strength of our brand portfolio and solid execution by Coca-Cola [Interject] our bottling partner. Importantly in our 120 countries with per caps less than 150, our volume growth was 9% for the year, cycling 11% in the prior year.

We continue to believe we are early in the game in key emerging markets. To that end this past year, we grew volume 19% in China, and 14% in India, the two fastest growth economies in the world. While China is clearly expecting slower GDP growth this year, we are confident in our plans to ensure our brands as affordable consumer staples, continue to offer real value to Chinese consumers during these difficult times. During 2009 each of our operating groups will continue to execute against our strategies and focus on delivering consistent results. We will continue working closely with our bottling partners in these challenging times to adapt to conditions on the ground and better meet the needs of our consumers as well as customers.

In North America, we along with so many other industries are facing some of the most challenging economic conditions in the world. However we made real progress last year. In what is arguably the world's most competitive beverage market, I am pleased that our brand portfolio is getting stronger, our customer relationships are improving dramatically, and we have a more aligned and capable bottling system. The continued success and enduring investment in this progress is enabled by a relentless ongoing focus on cost management and productivity. The fundamental measurement of our results is brand health and share gains.

Clearly, the volatile economic environment and bottler price increase impacted our results. However it is important to recognize we out performed the industry, when measuring across all channels we gained volume and value share in the quarter and the full year. In fact, The Coca-Cola Company owned five of the top ten fastest growing trademarks in incremental retail sales in North America for 2008 with Coca-Cola, Zero, Glasso, Simply, Nos and Fuse. And our system also handles half the volume of the Monster trademark giving us access to a sixth brand.

Real and tangible progress is being made in strengthening our alignment with our bottlers as illustrated by strong customer teamwork across our system. We have a rigorous portfolio of effectiveness and efficiency initiatives with our bottlers as we move forward. These actions are ongoing and we expect will drive incremental gains in long term profitability for our system in North America. Our Marketing and innovation calendar for North America is robust with numerous activities across the portfolio. As the economic environment strengthens, we believe our continued investment in our brands, customer and franchise relationships will enable us to return our sparkling brands to growth and accelerate continued growth in our still brands.

Before I turn the call over to Gary, let's just step back and review what makes The Coca-Cola Company's model so special. First, we have some of the best brands in the world and the cash flow to keep investing in them to build long term equity with our consumers and customers. Second, our invested capital generates high returns. Simply said, we were built for times like these. The Coca-Cola system generates up to $50 million of cash per day. Our fundamentally sound balance sheet allows us to pursue growth and we have demonstrated the ability to deliver a reliable dividend which is increased each of the last 46 years.

We enter 2009 with the same mind set as one year ago, deliver on a consistent set of strategies and initiatives that provide us a disciplined road map to operate in the best consumer business in the world, a business with significant long term opportunity. We have a tradition of delivering growth over the long term and it is our intention to continue to drive long term balance and sustainable growth for the benefit of our shareholders.

Our picture of success this year is clear. First, maintain simplicity by focusing on a critical set of measurable deliverables. Second, increase the speed and efficiency of execution to capitalize on opportunities while mitigating risk. And third, remain constructively discontent in all that we do in order to deliver against our long term growth targets and enhance our long term brand and system health. With that, let me now turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. As, Muhtar indicated we once again delivered strong financial results in the quarter resulting in our ninth consecutive quarter of double digit comparable EPS growth and our third consecutive year of delivering against our long term growth targets.

We continued with our disciplined approach to financial management, using our many business levers; consistent volume, solid price mix, improving operating expense leverage and disciplined capital allocation, to deliver value to customers, consumers and shareowners, even in this difficult operating environment. Our management's effort to diligently execute our strategies and work with our bottlers to adapt to the marketplace is a testament to the resilience of our business model and the talents of our employees.

We reported earnings per share of $0.43 per quarter on a diluted basis in the quarter, however this included a net charge of $0.21 per share. $0.15 of the net charge was related primarily to our proportionate share of the non-cash impairment charge recorded by Coca-Cola Enterprises. The remaining $0.06 of the net charge was primarily related to asset impairments restructuring charges and cost related to our global productivity initiatives. Therefore comparable earnings per share was $0.64 per share an increase of 10%. For the year, reported EPS was $2.49. Comparable EPS was up 17% to $3.15. The net charge of $0.66 per share primarily related to non-cash impairment charges recorded at Coca-Cola Enterprises in the second and fourth quarters as well as asset impairments, restructuring charges and costs related to our productivity initiatives.

For the year, unit case volume growth was 5%, essentially in line with concentrate sales. Revenue growth was 11% as we balanced the volume and value equation by delivering a 4% increase in concentrate sale, a 3% favorable impact from price and mix, and a 4% currency benefit for the year. Full year comparable operating income was up 17% as our productivity efforts have begun to pay off and include a 6% benefit from currency. Again, ahead of our long term targets. Importantly, our advantageous geographic diversity played a key role with each of our international operating groups contributing to our profit growth for the year.

In terms of margins, our core business remains healthy, expanding margins for the full year as we drove top line growth and delivered operating expense leverage. Bottling investments continues to improve margins as well. In the Fourth Quarter, you will have noticed that we delivered significant operating expense leverage. We do not expect to achieve that Q4 leverage in 2009, rather we would expect the run rate for 2009 operating expense leverage to be more in line with our 2008 full year results. Our productivity initiatives remain on track to deliver $500 million in annual savings by year-end 2011 and we are accelerating efforts to rewire the organization to support our next era of growth.

Cash flow from operations for the year increased 6% to $7.6 billion on strong underlying business performance. But you may have noticed that working capital was a $700 million year-over-year use of cash. The working capital change was primarily one-time international tax payments which will reverse in 2009 and cash payments related to restructuring charges and our costs incurred for productivity initiatives. Excluding these items, cash from operations increased 13%. As part of our ongoing productivity initiatives we'll continue to focus on managing our working capital in 2009.

We repurchased approximately $1.1 billion of our stock for the full year in line with our prior guidance. Additionally the Company paid $3.5 billion in dividends to shareholders in 2008. Our balance sheet remains fundamentally strong with solid interest coverage ratios and a conservatively invested cash position of $4.7 billion.

Now let me address some of the factors that we see impacting 2009. First, let me reiterate Muhtar's sentiment, there's no question that the coming year will pose macroeconomic challenges for all businesses. But we will not be content to just ride out the storm. We will leverage this as an opportunity to drive our business for the long term and build on our track record of success.

We have continued to evolve and improve our operational and fiscal discipline, while building on our solid foundation with consistent, strategic priorities. Our seasoned Management team is poised to continue to do so in 2009. As you know our long term currency neutral growth targets are 6% to 8% operating income growth and high single digit ongoing earnings per share growth. Our picture of success for 2009 is to achieve those targets, as well as enhancing brand health and gaining share, despite the difficult operating environment. Additionally we will track share gain across all of the key markets and categories.

On concentrate pricing, we will continue to work in alignment with our bottlers to adjust our occasion, brand, price, pack, and channel architecture to bring value to both our customers and consumers. As always our intention is to take pricing in line with our bottlers net retail pricing over the long term. As in the Fourth Quarter, our revenues will continue to be impacted due to structural changes primarily related to disposal of bottlers. We would expect a similar drag during a portion of 2009 as we cycle the sale of the [Remil] bottler in Brazil at the end of Q2 and the Pakistan bottler investment at the end of Q3.

We expect to deliver operating expense leverage on both the core business and bottling businesses in 2009. We'll continue to invest behind our brands and innovation initiatives. Additionally selling and service expenses will increase as we invest for growth in our bottling operations as well as investments behind our brand acquisitions, particularly in North America. G&A expenses were tightly controlled in 2008 and we will continue with our disciplined approach in 2009 including further progress on our productivity initiatives. As for our pension plan, we remain on fairly solid ground; however we were impacted by declines in the value of plan assets and a lower discount rate. As a result we would expect pension expense to increase $0.03 to $0.04 per share in 2009 as compared to 2008.

From a capital expenditure standpoint, we purchased approximately $1.8 billion in net property plant equipment during 2008. For 2009 we would expect the total Company net capital expenditures to be approximately $1.8 billion to $2 billion as we continue to make investments in our business as well as recently acquired bottling operations. For share repurchase we do not plan to repurchase additional shares in 2009 due to the pending acquisition of Huiyan Juice Company in China.

Now let me move to currency. As expected, currency has proved to be a head wind in the Fourth Quarter impacting comparable operating income by negative 9%. As for our 2009 currency outlook, it is obviously a very volatile environment and there are no clear trends for the US dollar. As we are all observing the markets risk perspectives continue to evolve and may move to mute the attractiveness of the dollar as the year progresses. However there are many different scenarios that could play out and we're managing against this back drop.

We are effectively 100% hedged on key hard currencies like the Euro and the Yen for all of 2009. But emerging market currencies continue to be particularly volatile and provide the highest risk and opportunity to our currency expectation for this year. Based on our current hedge position, we are expecting an estimated 10% to 12% headwind from currencies in the First Quarter and we'll provide further updates as we progress through the year. It's important to note that we manage our business in local currency to ensure we make the right decisions for the long term business health. For 2009 our best estimate is that the full year underlying effective tax rate will be approximately 23% to 24%, up from the rate in 2008, largely due to the impact of currency.

Finally let me say a few words about quarterly phasing. As many of you know, we report quarterly unit case volume growth on an average daily sales basis to eliminate comparability issues due to calendar variations. For 2009, we will have one fewer day since 2008 was a leap year. First Quarter of '09 will have five more days than Q1 '08 and the Fourth Quarter of '09 will have six fewer days versus Q4 '08. This will not impact our unit case sales reporting, but will impact our concentrate sales and therefore revenues. Additionally both Easter and the impact of July 4th US holiday shift into Q2 this year.

We expect 2009 will be a challenging but successful year. We continue to be a consistent generator of operating cash flow providing attractive long term returns to our shareowners. That's what I wanted to cover this morning. Operator, we're ready for questions.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Judy Hong, with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning everyone.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

JUDY HONG: Muhtar, can you speak to the volume strength that we saw in the Fourth Quarter in a lot of the international markets? And if you can go through whether this is really driven by the category being very resilient in the face of the economic downturn or you're just maybe gaining more share in those markets? And then as we look out 2009, you have talked about the picture of success in '09 meeting your long term targets, does that apply to the volume targets of 3% to 5% as well? Hello?

OPERATOR: One moment, please. Please stand by. All parties, please stand by.

MUHTAR KENT: Judy?

JUDY HONG: Yes.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, something happened to the line and I just want you to repeat the question if you could, please?

JUDY HONG: Yes, sure. I just wanted to get your perspective on the volume strength that we saw in a lot of the international markets in the Fourth Quarter in the face of the weaker economy, whether you think it really speaks to the resiliency of the category or you're gaining more share in those markets? And then as we look out 2009, you've talked about the picture of success this year meeting the long term targets and whether that applies to the volume growth targets in '09 as well?

MUHTAR KENT: Right. Well, first, I think the answer is to the first part of your question is both, the resilience of the category as I've said many many times, we're selling moments of pleasure billions of times a day, more than 1.5 billion times a day at cents at a time. And our bottling partners have been continuing to invest very heavily on the ground in equipment, with the customers, in the past two, three years and I think that's paying off.

We had a balanced growth. Our developed markets like Europe grew as well as our emerging markets and Latin America grew, Euro-Asia and Africa grew very well. The brick markets particularly India and China had a very strong quarter in the last quarter of last year. So I think overall we've had a very strong quarter. As far as going forward, we recognize the challenges.

Our picture of success still remains to meet our long term growth targets, but we said we will have bumps along the road and we may not achieve our targets in one or two quarters. That is possible, but our picture of success remains to continue to drive investments, to ensure that we're investing in the health of our brands and to ensure that we gain market share as we've done this past year, this past quarter and this past year.

And to come out of this tunnel with stronger portfolio, stronger brands. And one thing you'll not see us doing is that we will not cut our communication with our consumers. We will continue to invest with our bottling partners. Our bottling partners appetite for investment remains very strong around the world and that is a very good litmus test of what's happening in the marketplace with our system.

JUDY HONG: Just, in relation to that, I mean it we've seen media rates coming down pretty substantially, is there an opportunity to kind of look at the marketing expense line and get more leverage and maybe flow some of the more productivity savings to the bottom line in this environment where the media spending is trending down?

MUHTAR KENT: Well even when media costs were not trending down, we were achieving significant efficiencies in our marketing. We have much fewer agencies that we're working with. We've consolidated our agencies. We have the Coke Side of Life campaign was leveraged all across the globe as well will be the Open Happiness campaign, the new Open Happiness campaign.

Agency numbers have gone down by more than half and I think we've driven a lot of efficiencies in our marketing, in our market research costs over the past 12 months. That will continue and we will evaluate the costs of media, but ensure that our GRP's remain very healthy in the way we communicate with our consumers across the world. And I think -- I've personally seen in Russia where I lived through these crisis in the past in the 1990's and in Turkey, Argentina, it's always paid off to ensure that you keep communicating with your consumers in macroeconomic conditions as the ones that we're living through right now.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and then just a question on currency, Gary. Is there any transactional impact that we should be aware of beyond that $0.10 to $0.12 impact in the First Quarter you've talked about? And then secondly, is the reason that you're not giving sort of the full year currency guidance is just the volatility in the emerging markets currency and really the full year depends on where these currencies go from here through the end of the year?

GARY FAYARD: That's exactly right. 10% to 12% impact on the First Quarter at operating income is kind of what we see today for the quarter. But I mean you've seen the volatility as well as we have and I think to try to give guidance on what currencies could do for the full year is impossible because of the swings. I think long term, there's no doubt in my mind that the dollar is going to weaken and for many reasons but right now obviously it is a safe haven. It's why the Fed's looking at I think adding four new primary dealers for Treasuries right now because of everybody going to safe havens. But at some point it's going to turn. We just quite candidly don't know when it's going to turn.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Marc Greenberg, Deutsche Bank. Your line is open

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. Muhtar, I was kind of hoping you could elaborate on something, expense management in the quarter was terrific. Can you talk about longer term, how you can increase investing to drive brand growth and at the same time get expense leverage? Beyond some of the comments to Judy I guess I'm thinking about the sustainability of lower SG&A into 2009.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, and I'll make a comment and also ask Gary to comment too on that. Firstly, I think what we want to say is that this year in 2009, you should be guided by our full year expense leverage from last year. So 4% to 5% OpEx leverage is what you should be looking at for 2009, and that is going to be achieved through our continuing successful transformation process. As you know, we've started that process way ahead of this current macroeconomic downturn.

It's been going on now for more than 12 months. We've already captured significant effectiveness and efficiency in productivity and we will continue to drive our target of $0.5 billion by 2011 recurring. And I think that that is a combination of effectiveness and efficiency in our processes in our systems in how we approach our business. And also it's also being driven by the whole new architecture that we have in our organization that we put into place at the end of 2006 in our international markets. And North America continues to drive also a lot of effectiveness and efficiency inside their own transformation process. And this is all outside of the Supply Chain efficiencies and effectiveness that we're also beginning to tap into.

GARY FAYARD: And Marc, I would just add a little color on that and I'm going to give you a little granularity because as we're going through rewiring our Company for significantly enhanced effectiveness, what we're getting is a lot of efficiency as well. And let me just give you a really granular example. In finance itself, global finance within our Company, we have been going through and starting to rationalize the companies we own and the legal entities. So when we do a consolidation each month or each quarter, we consolidate about 1,200 entities.

We've gone through and last week have found 112 of those that we can eliminate, another 200 that we can probably eliminate. And if you just think about there are people spending many many hours doing work on legal entities that actually don't need to exist, that have just been around for years that there's a reason for it in the beginning, it goes to how do we do intercompany accounting. We are in granular detail of how we wire and rewire this Company to be significantly more effective and we'll be a lot more efficient at the same time. So we're very confident that we're going the right way and doing the right things for the long term and getting short-term benefits while we're doing it.

MUHTAR KENT: One other point I just want to add is that we always talk about the money side of it. I think the piece that I'd like you to really focus on also Marc is the organization now that we have in place. As a result of this the work that we've done is executing with much greater speed and effectiveness and mitigating risk as it goes along. And I think that's the piece that is also very important. We're much closer to the marketplace today,much fewer meetings, much more time in the marketplace with our bottling partners, with our customers, and that's really also a significant advantage of the transformation process. In addition to the actual monetary side of the effectiveness.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Faucher, JPMorgan. Your line is open.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, thank you very much. Gary, quick question, the CapEx has risen and you've talked about investing in companies & Company owned bottlers and things like that. It's a little bit of a change from how we've historically thought of CapEx at The Coca-Cola Company, so how long do you see this higher CapEx trend continuing and as you begin to divest more bottlers does it have less of an incremental impact year-over-year? Thanks

GARY FAYARD: Yes, thanks, John. If you look at what I just said about CapEx last year and in 2009, $1.8 billion to $2 billion for '09, about half of it or so is actually related to the bottling investments group or the bottlers that we own. My expectation as you saw in 2008 is over time we will be net sellers. And as we actually sell bottlers, the CapEx will come down fairly significantly.

The CapEx has really been driven right now because as we continue to invest in China and the Philippines and Germany and those bottlers and really invest in India, investing in cold drink equipment, those kinds of things to drive volume, value, across the long term, we think we're doing the right things for the long term in those. But CapEx will start coming down significantly over the next five years, if you will, as we're disposing of some of those bottlers.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala, UBS. Your line is open.

KAUMIL GARJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Good morning, everybody.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

KAUMIL GARJRAWALA: I know you touched on this a bit but as you consider this economic slowdown in emerging markets and the fact that a good percentage of your portfolio is the premium ready to drink offering, to what extent are you considering affordability in these markets and what would you do to address it?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think we're always insuring that our products are affordable. We have the right price pack architecture, Kaumil . And we're doing a lot more work on ensuring that we have the right price points in this current environment, adding more packages that will bring the price point down both in the at home market as well as in the immediate consumption market. And we're not doing that only in emerging markets. We're doing it across the world in North America, right here, with really good initial results in terms of the new price pack channel architecture with 16-ounce and some other smaller packages.

And as well as places like Mexico, to ensure that we are much more part of the meal occasion and we increase pantry. And so what we have seen in this environment is that it's really working well in terms of driving pantry at home, creating more occasions in this environment and whether it's in China, whether it's in Great Britain. In China we just launched a new 355 milliliter PT that's doing initial results are very good, so just to give you one example. So I think across the entire geography, across all continents, we've done a lot of work in the past four, five months in that

KAUMIL GARJRAWALA: Got it, and a quick follow-up just on Judy's question, to be clear with media deflation, are you maintaining the budget and increasing impressions or maintaining the number of impressions and just enjoying some efficiency?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think we're doing all of that, but and it's too early to say where it's going to pan out. One thing you can be sure of is that we're not going to reduce our weight and we will capitalize on the current market trends.

KAUMIL GARJRAWALA: Got it. Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes.

OPERATOR: And a question from Christine Farkas from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning, Muhtar and Gary.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: I'm looking at a couple of your mature markets, North America and Europe and clearly you talked about unusually high leverage in the quarter and maybe you can speak to this on a more normalized basis, but the margins were quite strong. Are some savings coming through from the $500 million program already? Was this about market allocation timing of where you put your dollars in the quarter? And then within those regions, speak to the strong food service trends and what countries worked or didn't work in Western Europe? Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Sure. Basically, Christine, I think as far as Europe is concerned, I think basically, we've had a lot of initiatives for Pan-European programs over the last 12 months and I think they've really started working well for us in this environment. So we've got a lot of efficiencies and they are sustainable efficiencies. Across the whole Company, and across our headquarters functions, we've started to reap some of the benefits already of the transformation process.

We've got a lot more coming and again in terms of there's a whole, there's a tremendous focus on G&A across the whole Company and particularly OpEx. And what we've said is that this is the time to be choice full about how we spend our money and anything that basically does not drive value does not have a place. So we have certainly also launched a lot of products with better margins in Europe. New teas, new smoothies that has brought again some efficiencies on the effectiveness on the P&L line in our European business.

In North America, a lot of work is going on in effectiveness and in efficiency part of the transformation process but also the work that's ongoing with our bottling partners in the Supply Chain and in some other areas in order to drive again some leverage on our P&L. In terms of food service, we're cycling minus 3% from in quarter four of '08 which was the beginning of the economic downturn. And I think that again, we've launched some new products in our food service in quarter four, some new teas, some new coffees and smoothies, and I think basically all the investments that we're doing with all our customers are paying dividends.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thanks for that and just a quick question, was Germany positive in the quarter?

MUHTAR KENT: Basically, we would prefer not to comment in individual countries but I would just basically say to you that overall, key markets like Great Britain, France were positive. And I think all of the programs that we have in Germany are paying dividends. And it's -- 2009 is going to be the first full year of consolidation in Germany when we'll get really the results of all of the work, all of the good work that's being done. And we're gaining traction in Germany.

GARY FAYARD: Christine, this is Gary. Let me add one thing to your Europe question, if I may. And I don't know if this is where you were coming from, but I know I picked up a few comments earlier this morning about Europe and I think a lot of people perhaps thought currency was a really significant tail wind in Europe in the Fourth Quarter. We had some hedge coverage in place so let me just kind of give you a little bit on that. Currency for Europe was a negative eight, so if you look at that versus what you are expecting it to be, you may find that there's a little bit of difference there as well because of our hedge coverage.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Lauren Torres, HSBC. Your line is open.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

LAUREN TORRES: Yesterday, Coke Enterprises spoke about their strengthening relationship with Hugh and the formation of Coca-Cola Supply. I was hoping you could give us just a little bit of your thoughts behind this organization, what are your expectations? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense offer how we should gauge and monitor the progress that's developing in this new relationship?

MUHTAR KENT: I think basically, what you need to, we are very serious about our efforts in Coca-Cola Supply and I think that what we have got a very good program in place in terms of the new integrated Supply Chain initiative that will consolidate the common Supply Chain initiatives. It will optimize product flow and create over $150 million of annual incremental operating income by 2011 for CCE and The Coca-Cola Company. And I think all our other bottling partners are going to benefit from that and it's a very serious initiative.

LAUREN TORRES: Is there anything we're going to see or should expect to see over the course of this year? I know we're talking about savings through the next couple years, but as far as the immediate impact just something somewhat more material that we'll be seeing coming through?

MUHTAR KENT: I think you can just look at it as similar to the transformation initiative that we announced over 12 months ago in our Company. Basically, you can expect that the 2009 plan will deliver an aligned outcome for both companies, both The Coca-Cola Company as well as our bottling partners and certainly a more progressive agreement for the future. I think that we will ramp up everything in turn -- compressed certainly the program as best as we can and we have a very good plan forward.

LAUREN TORRES: Okay, all right thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg, Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, a couple questions on the macro front. When you look particularly at your emerging market businesses, and even to an extent your developed market businesses, can you talk a little bit about some of the assumptions you're making about key macro trends unfolding? Obviously they are getting worse, but I'm particularly interested how you're thinking about inflation and other key variables affecting the broader environment you're operating in? And then I had a related question.

MUHTAR KENT: Well, it;s -- what you have to do is absolutely remain flexible because it's changing so fast. We don't right now, I think immediately there's no threat of inflation but over a period of time there's no question that with all of the amount of money that's being printed around the world, no question that we need to make some planning ahead that we may be facing an inflationary environment. But we certainly don't know when that will happen, if that will happen, and if it does happen, when it will happen and where it will start and how it will evolve.

All I can tell you is that we've lived through those inflationary environments in the past and our businesses really we have great operating talent across the whole world that have operated in that environment whether it be Latin America, in the Euro-Asian countries. And we will certainly be looking at what's evolving and we will remain very flexible as well as ready for anything that comes in that area.

GARY FAYARD: Mark, this is Gary. I would add one thing about inflation. If you go back and look at history, any time we really enter into an inflationary environment our Company actually benefits. We do extremely well in that type of environment.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. That's helpful, and then some interesting comments out of Diagio this morning describing at least parts of their emerging markets business as being -- having not only the better growth but perhaps the most enduring growth. When you look at your own business and think about volatility and risk of slowdown and magnitude of slowdown outside of the US , what do you consider your markets that are most vulnerable to slowdown just from a macro perspective? Hearing what you all can do to defend against that I think is pretty persuasive but what do you kind of put at the top of the list as your most vulnerable markets if you have to put something up

MUHTAR KENT: Well, I mean certainly we talked about Russia. Russia has been hit in a different way and earlier than some of the other markets and we've certainly seen the results of that slowdown on our business too, our volume growth has slowed down. Philippines was one of the other markets that's been hit significantly earlier than the rest, in terms of the macroeconomic situation and in terms of the remittances that were driving a lot of the consumption in that economy came down. And we've seen the impact of that and no question that there's some Latin American Markets that are beginning to feel the downturn in the United States more like Mexico.

We know that the GMP in India and China is not going to be the same as it was in the past 12 months. It's going to be slower, but there will be growth. The Chinese Prime Minister reiterated the objectives of his government to insure that they grow at 7% to 8% last week. And announced more details of their stimulus package which is very real. And I think all governments across the world are launching in their own way different stimulus packages, whether it's tax cuts, incentive -- investment incentives, supporting small and medium size Enterprises. So across the world there's a tremendous effort that we're seeing by a lot of governments by central banks to ensure that the macroeconomic downturn in their markets is not as deep as in some of the other markets that have already been hit.

And we shall see how all of that evolves but certainly I mentioned a couple countries and then we have others that are still resilient that are still growing, countries in Latin America, Indonesia, Turkey. And I've mentioned again earlier, we got a lot of small countries that make up a fairly large portion of our volume. Countries over 100 countries that we have per caps of less than 150, where last year we've grown almost double digits 8% to 9% in these countries. So all of the investments that we're doing on the ground in distribution, in customer connectivity, in cold drink equipment, in packaging, in new products are paying off in a lot of those markets.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Carlos Laboy, Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone.

MUHTAR KENT: Good morning.

CARLOS LABOY: On a couple of issues, one is on Japan. The co-op of the bottlers there was being restructured and you were looking at the structure of Japan, I was hoping you could offer some thoughts on how you see that system evolving and whether you see yourself having to buy any bottlers there? And on the issue of China and India, Muhtar, how detached do you feel that your business trends might be from these macro pressures given how low you are in the evolutionary development of these markets for you?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, let me just, Carlos talk to you first just shed some light on the Supply Chain. The Supply Chain was set up for speed, flexibility as well as scale in Japan and none of that is being lost as we restructure it. The key is now it is much more aligned with the local bottlers and how they -- and to ensure that their needs are met on a more timely basis. So it's a restructuring but not, but ensuring that the scale and the flexibility and the speed is still there. That is point number one on Japan.

In terms of detachment, look we, in markets like India and China that you referenced, our per capita's are still very very low, 24 in China, less than 24 in India. And again, we know that there's a pressure on migrant workers for example, I'll give you one example in China that are returning back to the rural area. Well we have 30 plus bottling plants in China scattered across the whole country. We're selling to those rural customers and we were selling to them before they migrated to the cities and we're selling to them now. And we are again rearchitecting, creating new price points, ensuring that we are available and we're available in more formats with different price points to ensure that the affordability of our brands is still in place for Chinese and Indian consumers as well as consumers across all of the emerging markets can still afford and buy our products.

Trademark Coke in China was up 18% in Q4. Minute Maid Pulpy, well a great product that was up almost 50%, more than 50% in quarter four, and is now a couple hundred million case business on its own in China. And we've doubled our volume in tea last year in China, growth more than 90%. So again, a lot of our organic growth has been very successful in China and as I said I repeat organic growth. So that's really sort of answers your question I hope, Carlos.

CARLOS LABOY: Yes, Muhtar, just to clarify, on the Japan issue do you see yourselves having to inject yourselves into Japan maybe more aggressively in terms of M&A or there was a transaction that hit the tape on Japanese bottler?

MUHTAR KENT: I think the thing about Japan is think about it, we have had success with our cluster in West Japan, it is producing good results, achieving great market results now, beginning to achieve great market results in West Japan with that cluster that has been formed where we injected ourselves in a minority position but ensured that we played a critical role in creating West Japan. And again, after the investment that we had in Coca-Cola bottlers Tokyo, we are continuing to work to create the next cluster in Japan around [Canto], and if there is a need for us to inject ourselves in a small way, to ensure that we can play a catalyst there, role of a catalyst, we will do so.

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes.

OPERATOR: Final question comes from Celso Sanchez from Citi. Your line is open.

CELSO SANCHEZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, good morning. Could you talk a little bit about the fountain business please in North America, specifically the US , the innovation with the mega choice dispenser that you'll be displaying next week, it certainly is encouraging. But if you could speak more to the sort of organization changes that may be occurring in terms of how you approach the business and how you approach it in conjunction with the bottler and the price pack architecture? CCE spoke a little bit about it yesterday but I'd love to know how you see your roles evolving from both bottler and brand owner of the next 12 months or

MUHTAR KENT: Sure, first the fountain of the future, is certainly something that we're very excited about. We've working on this as part of our innovation pipeline over the past couple years. And certainly what we have seen so far is very encouraging in that the consumer gets excited with the choice and with the flavors. And certainly compared to a much more limited choice, we see great consumer excitement in the marketplace in how the consumer interacts. So we're excited with what that will bring to us in what a key channel of our business in North America and other parts of the world as we roll it out. So our efforts really focus on the deployment of the beverage offerings that considers, that this will create a lot of excitement at the point-of-sale with all our customers as we start to roll that out. So that's, and I hope that you can see for yourself at CAGNY next week.

In terms of the organizational change, and approach to business with the bottler and price pack architecture, I think that -- don't think about it as an organizational change. Think about it as a very tremendously aligned approach. We have dual customer calling in about 20% of CC's territory. We've begun to move to a single call model in the market to improve value to the customer and the system and it's in early stages of its development. And it's all about being more effective in the marketplace and it's all about being flexible and fast in the marketplace.

CELSO SANCHEZ: That sounds like a procedural change, but I was wondering more along the lines of the alignment you spoke of in the markets when there's not dual calling, is there room for improvement do you think for the alignment of price pack between sound and bottle can?

MUHTAR KENT: Oh, I think there is and that's part of -- and that's one of the work streams that we have with CCE and other bottling partners what we call fountain harmony which offers the opportunity to implement the occasions brands pricing as well as channel architecture across -- on premise channels in a manner that we will ensure that meet evolving consumer desires and also the incremental volume opportunities.

CELSO SANCHEZ: All right, thank you very much.

MUHTAR KENT: Sure. Thank you. Our focus in this challenging and dynamic environment is to proactively drive our strategic agenda. We see tremendous opportunity to extend the reach potential and profitability of our business around the world, despite the prevailing macro conditions. And we're confident we have the right strategies as well as the right leadership team to do just that. We also remain committed to always ensuring open and ongoing transparent communications with you, our investors.

Thanks very much for joining us this morning and we wish you a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with The Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the companies website, theCoca-ColaCompany.com. You may now all disconnect, thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090219e52c001jo
  


 HD
 Q2  2008 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,507 words
   PD
17 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's second quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call.

(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Participants will be announced by their name and company name in the order they are received. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person.

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.

I would like to now introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.

ANN TAYLOR, VP AND DIRECTOR OF IR, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Neville Isdell our Chairman, Muhtar Kent our President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer and Sandy Douglas, our North American Group President. Following prepared remarks this morning, by Neville, Muhtar and Gary, we will turn the call over for your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.

In addition, I would like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at www.thecoca-colacompany.com under the financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

Please look at our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you Ann and good morning, everyone. As you all know this has been my final quarter as CEO of this outstanding company. Before I turn the call over to Muhtar, who will provide context around the results of the second quarter and the outlook going forward and to Gary who will give you an overview of the perspective of 2008, I want to make a few opening comments.

The Coca-Cola Company has made significant progress since our turnaround began in 2004. We have revitalize the sparkling beverage category globally and continue to grow trademark Coca-Cola. We've addressed key issues, markets and taken decisive actions.

We have reconnected with our customers and consumers through effective marketing and innovation strategies and we have re-engaged our associates who are absolutely key to our winning in the marketplace. And importantly we have successfully implemented a seamless CEO transition plan for the next leg of our journey.

Clearly, our strategies are working as we continue to expand our volume and value shared leadership position in the non-alcoholic, ready to drink beverage industry as well as in sparkling and key still beverage categories. And our financial performance continues to be strong as we deliver our seventh consecutive quarter of double digit comparable earnings per share growth. As I depart as CEO, I am pleased with our accomplishments and solid performance.

We have put in place a strong foundation, and I remain confident in our outlook for 2008 as we continue to invest and build share. Our balanced geographic mix and broad portfolio, along with a talent and experience of our people across the system, positions us well to continue to be successful, delivering growth and value for our share owners for the long term.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to our new CEO, my good friend, Muhtar. Muhtar Kent please.

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT AND CEO, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you Neville and good morning everyone. First, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Neville for his extraordinary leadership and the support that he's provided to me for the past two decades. I am truly honored by the confidence both he and our board of directors have shown in my ability to lead this great company.

Before I get into the specifics of our operating performance, I'd like to reiterate that our business is a true, great business to be in. The nonalcoholic beverage industry is the fastest growing segment of the consumer products industry and we have been leading positions in almost all categories we compete in.

The Coca-Cola Company offers an affordable luxury, connecting with our consumers one and a half billion times every day, but I know what is top of mind for all of you, the current macroeconomic environment and its impact on our results. Based on our volume performance of 3% of the quarter, it is clear we were faced with some challenges around the globe.

Our results in the quarter were impacted primarily by a number of one-time events, including strikes in Europe and natural disasters in Asia, as well as unfavorable weather in a number of our markets. Moreover, we are certainly operating in a more challenging environment, particularly as rising food and energy cost weigh on consumer confidence. Internationally GDP forecasts are coming down, however growth is still expected to remain at healthy levels and it is no surprise that we continue to face challenges also in North America due to the U.S. economy.

We continue to invest aggressively in our portfolio with new products, marketing platforms and a consistent strategy in very close coordination with our bottling partners, to offer our customers the best beverage choices for consumers. Our second quarter performance demonstrates our ability to leverage the strengths of our system to achieve balanced growth.

Our results were once again led by our international operations which delivered 5% unit case volume growth, cycling 9% growth in the prior year despite some one-off events and a more challenging macroeconomic environment. For the past few years we've been rebuilding our foundation and solidifying our tradition as a leading global non-alcoholic, ready-to drink beverage company.

We believe that our broad and balanced geographic mix positions us very well to navigate through any headwinds as we continue to focus on operating efficiencies and execution strategy. Our actions are allowing us to win in the market. Globally, we accelerated our volume and value share gains in total nonalcoholic beverages.

Importantly we gained share in most of our key markets as well as key categories. And this illustrates the strength of our brand and the strength of our system to operate successfully in tough environments. By continuing to invest in difficult economic times, our system is seeking to build a stronger bond with consumers and a stronger share position for the long term.

We clearly recognize that there are short-term challenges in the marketplace related to economic trends and we will maintain our disciplined approach of analyzing and understanding the impact of these challenges to our business and adjust our plans accordingly.

Now let me turn to our operating performance for the quarter. We increased our unit case volume by 3% in the quarter and 4% year-to-date, successfully cycling 6% growth in the prior year quarter and year-to-date periods. While the growth was not where we would have like it to be, it is not unexpected given the headwinds we faced from national disasters including earthquakes and floods, as well as unseasonably cold and wet weather in certain markets.

Additionally, we will challenged as I said with strikes in European markets and continued softness in consumer trends in North America. In the quarter, our financial results remained strong. We achieved double digit comparable earnings per share growth of 19%, now our seventh consecutive quarter of double digit EPS growth.

Revenue growth was solid increasing 17% with the acquisition of bottlers contributing two points of growth. This performance illustrates that our strategies to drive top-line growth are working. Ongoing operating income increased 20% with currency contributing 11 points of growth. So our currency neutral operating income was 9%, even as we have continued to make solid strategic investments for long-term sustainable growth.

Moving now on to our geographies. Latin America continues to be a bright spot for our system, once again achieving solid results. Unit case volume increased 7% with all business units delivering growth and the group also continued to achieve share gains in key countries. Additionally the successful integration of Jugos del Valle into our system, is contributing to still beverage growth and share gain.

In Mexico, unit case volume increased 10% led by the continued strong performance of brand Coca-Cola up 3% and the benefit of Jugos del Valle also contributing three point to growth. All leading to volume and value share gain in sparkling as well as still beverages.

Brazil increased 1% in the quarter reflecting the slowdown in industry grow particularly in April as consumers spending shifted to durable goods as a result of continued credit expansion. Despite challenges in the marketplace, Brazil gained volume and value share in total nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages also as well as in sparkling and still beverages. In Africa we achieved unit case volume of 5%.

South Africa's unit case volume was even with last year's cycling 12% growth in the prior year quarter and reflecting the continued effects of CO2 shortages. We expect to have the CO2 shortages in our business resolved during the second half of this year.

Eurasia delivered unit case volume growth of 7% led by solid results in India, Turkey Eastern Europe, Southern Eurasia and the Middle East. Growth was solid across sparkling and still beverages with sparkling beverages growing 3% and still beverages led by the expansion of Minute Maid in India and Multijuice in Russia growing 24%. In Russia unit case volume growth was 2% primarily reflecting the impact from poor weather conditions particularly in the second half of the quarter.

Despite the slowdown of volume growth in Russia, our volume and value share in nonalcoholic beverages in the quarter reached an all time high. The pacific group grew unit case volume 4% in the quarter led by China which continued to deliver double digit growth despite being negatively impacted by significant flooding and earthquakes in certain regions of the country.

We continue to drive growth by leveraging our Olympic activation programs centered around brand Coca-Cola expanding Minute Maid Pulpy and successfully launching our new Original Leaf Tea brand. In Japan, volume declined 1% in the quarter. However, we achieved share gains in nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverages.

Sparkling beverages continued to grow led by trademark Coca-Cola, as we continue to invest behind our three-cola strategy and the introduction of a new Fanta product, [Fufuru] a unique innovative sparkling jelly fusion shaker. Additionally Georgia Coffee grew 4%, the highest growth rate for Georgia in more than five years.

Core Georgia flavor contributed to more than 50% of the growth, proving our strategies to innovate the brand through marketing initiatives, new packaging and new flavors are working well. Georgia is now in its third consecutive quarter of growth and gaining category share. Adverse weather conditions resulted in volume declines for Sokenbicha and Aquarious volume decline.

Together with our bottling partners our outlook for Japan remains positive with an expectation of low single digit unit case volume growth over time. In Japan we have a clear formula for success and we'll continue executing against our strategies. In the Philippines, results were impacted by severe typhoons in the early part of the quarter.

Additionally we saw slowdown in overall consumer spending in all staple goods including beverages, due to inflation pressures. Unit case volume grew 3% cycling 11% growth from prior year. We continue to gain sparkling and total volume and value share during the quarter.

We remain committed to investing in the marketplace focused on affordability and availability initiatives to drive future growth. In the European union group, our volume declined 1% cycling 5% growth from the prior year. Our operations were impacted by strikes in several of our key markets and the shift of the Easter holiday into the first quarter.

Volume declined in April, but returned to grow in May and June. Despite these challenges we are winning in the marketplace, gaining overall volume share and value share across the group, as well as share gains in sparkling and still beverage categories. Coca-Cola Zero remains strong with presence in 26 countries now in the group and growing double digits in the quarter.

We continue to expand our still beverage offering to generate more balance grow and launched Vitamin Water in Great Britain, with early signs showing good progress. We are consistently making solid strategic investments behind our brands with marketing initiatives around Europe 2008 and the Olympics, focusing on revitalizing the sparkling category with the expansion of our zero range portfolio and broadening of footprint in still beverages.

In Europe, we have a solid foundation in place and remain committed to executing against our strategies. In North America, results were clearly impacted by the worsening economic environment which as we know may continue for sometime. The economic environment is reflected in the nonalcoholic beverage industry declining 2% in the quarter.

However, we remain confident we have the right strategies in place to deliver long-term sustainable growth, working alongside closely with our bottling partners and customers. Our unit case volume growth was even in the quarter despite the challenging environment. Importantly, we continue to gain total beverage volume and value share.

Sparkling beverages declined 4% in the quarter reflecting the continued weakness in our food service business and other on premise channels. However, our red, black and silver portfolio Coca-Cola Classic, Coca-Cola Zero and Diet Coke continued to gain volume and value share.

Coca-Cola Zero delivered strong results growing more than 40% in the quarter cycling double digit growth. Our still beverages portfolio performed strongly as unit case volume increased 9% in the quarter. Warehouse juices grew double digits led by trademark Simply Juices and continued to gain volume and value share.

Importantly for Glaceau, performance remains solid up strong double digit with strong performance in immediate consumption and non-measured channels. Additionally Fuse continues to perform very well and for the still beverage category we continue to gain total volume and value share.

In this difficult economic environment looking forward, we have a strong marketing calendar and our bottling system and customers across sparkling and still brands, but we expect the back half of 2008 to remain challenging in North America. We are accelerating productivity initiatives to focus investment in consumer and customer facing program and remain committed to winning in this important market. Now let me cover productivity.

Driving effectiveness and efficiency across our entire system continues to be a key lever in our ability to consistently deliver long-term sustainable results. Recognizing the challenges we are facing, in my first two weeks of CEO I have accelerated several initiatives which were already underway focusing the system on three primary areas.

First, supply chain optimization, where we are working within our own supply change and our bottling partners to improve operating efficiencies to drive margin enhancing opportunities. Second, marketing and innovation effectiveness. We are aggressively reviewing marketing spend, to reduce non-consumer facing programs through greater use of global campaigns, leveraging best practices on creative design and execution as well as optimizing our use of agencies and other third party providers.

As an example we renegotiated a global marketing research agreement that will generate savings versus the numerous local agreements in place, as well as provide additional services. These are just a few of the many steps we are taking to optimize investments behind our brands and leverage global best practices.

Our objectives is to reinvest marketing efficiencies we realize -- that we realize into brand building activity to drive the long term health of our business. And third, operating effectiveness and efficiency which will provide us with ongoing flexibility to invest in additional initiatives to drive top-line growth and also to support the foundation for future performance as well as drive more streamlined decision making.

I've talked to you about these opportunities before. We are now ready to share with you a range of expected monetary benefits. Our target is to generate annualize operating savings in the range of 400 to $500 million by the end of 2011. We have already began to implement several initiatives to realize these savings including, first to aggressively managing expense budget and concentrate supply chain operations to eliminate inefficiency and weight, supported by lean techniques across our operations.

Second, by redesigning processes to drive standardization and effectiveness and third, by identifying opportunities to leverage our size and scale including shared service operations. And also, last but not least, driving savings in our indirect expense area through the implementation of procured to pay purchasing program first in North America and Europe, which is really going to cover approximately 80% of our total indirect spend globally.

So overall, while our volume growth in the quarter was weaker than we would like, I am pleased that we successfully managed the numerous one-off factors, as well as the more challenging economic environment by delivering solid financial results and winning in the market as evidenced by our share gains globally in our key categories and also across all our markets.

Our system has proven that it is taking the right actions to be successful in the market and we will continue to do that. Going forward, we will remain relentless in becoming more efficient, leaner and adaptive to the changing market conditions, while continuing to invest behind our brands building a strong position for the future.

Both the fundamentals of our business and the strength of our brands continue to be solid. Through our focus on superior system execution and driving productivity, I remain confident we are building a stronger Coca-Cola system for the future.

With that, let me turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, CFO, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar and good morning everyone. As Neville and Muhtar indicated we once again delivered strong financial results. As you saw in the release we reported $0.61per share on a diluted basis in the quarter.

However this included a net charge of $0.40 per share, $0.38 of the net charge was related to our proportionate share of the non-cash impairment charge recorded by Coca-Cola enterprises. The remaining $0.02 was related to restructuring charges and some tax matters partially offset by the gains from the sell of assets primarily the sale of our [remile] bottler in Brazil to Coca-Cola [Fimza].

Therefore, our adjusted earning per share was $1.01 per share, an increase of 19% after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year quarter. As Muhtar said our seventh consecutive quarter of double digit comparable earnings per share growth. Net revenue in the quarter increased 17% which included a 2% benefit from structural changes primarily relate to acquisition of certain bottlers.

The growth was driven by 3% increase in concentrate sales, a 9% increase from currency and a 3% favorable impact from price and mix. In the quarter, unit case volume increased 3% cycling 6% growth in the prior year quarter. Additionally unit cases and concentrate sales are in line for the quarter and year-to-date.

We grew operating income by 18% on a reported basis, after considering items impacting comparability in the current and prior year quarters, operating income increased 20%, which includes an 11% benefit from currency. Total SG&A on an ongoing basis increased 16% in the quarter. About 14 points of the increase was due to bottlers and brand acquisitions increased sale and service expenses, as we invested for growth in our bottling operations and because of currency.

The remaining two points reflected continued investment behind our brands at a rate approximating gross profit growth, while tightly controlling general and administrative expenses as we focus on expense management and productivity initiatives. We are maintaining a disciplined approach to marketing our brands particularly in the current environment.

As Muhtar mentioned earlier, we are continuing the support our brands building our stronger share position for the future. We are achieving this through a slight step up in our total direct marketing spend versus our original plans, while at the same time reinvesting marketing productivity savings. We are also strategically reallocating resources against geographies and initiatives to drive sustained growth.

Additionally we continue to see margins improve in both our core business and in our bottling investment group. Our continued focus on driving efficiencies and effectiveness throughout our organization, generated four points of expense leverage on our core business in the quarter. For the remainder of the year we would expect to continue to achieve expense leverage, but at a more moderate rate as we start to cycle some of the programs put in place late last year.

Our interest expense decreased in the quarter, reflecting the impact of a $17 million gain from terminating interest rate locks put into place in anticipation of a long-term debt issuance later this year which is now being deferred given the current market environment as well as lower interest rates.

We repurchased approximately a billion dollars of our stock year-to-date and we continue to expect to repurchase 1.75 and two billion for the full year 2008. Now let me address some of the factors that we see impacting us in the remainder of this year. We remain confident in our ability to achieve long-term sustainable growth, despite a more challenging short-term environment given our balanced geographic mix and brand portfolio.

We will continue to portfolio manage globally, as we expect solid performance in most of our markets, with softness in North America as our business in North America will continue to be impacted by the difficult economic environment in the near term. Globally, we have strong plans in place with our bottling partners and customers for the remainder of the year, which reflects the realities of each market's economic condition.

From a commodity cost perspective given the continued rise in oil prices and the impact on PET, we would expect a slight increase for the company this year. From a capital expenditures standpoint, we purchased 850 million in net property plant and equipment year to date for 2008 the full year we expect total company net capital expenditures will be approximately $1.8 to $1.9 billion, that is versus our prior estimate of 1.6 to 1.7.

About half of the increase is due to currency movements since the time we set our budgets and the remainder is to support the growth in our bottling investments group. With regard to taxes, we ended up the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate of 22% and we expect to remain at that underlying effective tax rate for the remainder of the year. Moving now to currency, as I mentioned we saw a positive impact from currency in the quarter on operating income of 11%.

We are effectively covered for the full year on the Yen and the Euro and based on market expectations for the remainder of the year and benefits of coverage in place, we would expect currency benefits on operating income for the full year to be at least mid-single digits. With most of the benefit occurring in the first three quarters of this year.

Finally let me turn to productivity. As you saw from our release and as Muhtar mentioned we expect to achieve 400 to $500 million of annualize operating savings from our productivity initiatives by the end of 2011. In realizing the savings the company expects to incur total nonrecurrent costs by 2011 approximately equal to the annualized savings. Starting in 2008, we expect the phasing of the savings and cost to be approximately 25% per year through 2011.

That's it for the topics I wanted to cover. So operator, now for the questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Your first question will come from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, I was just wondering if we look at your volume growth of 3% in the quarter, I'm wondering if there's a way to kinds of quantify how much of that was really one-off factors like the labor strike et cetera versus the more challenging macro conditions that you've cited?

And related to that issue, if you look at markets around the world, can you compare and contrast markets where you are seeing more negative impact from challenging macroeconomic conditions versus markets where you are not? And whether going forward you are looking for broader slowdown in markets where you haven't really seen the weakness in some of these markets at this point?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, good morning, Judy. I think as I've said, I talked about the one-off events. Again, just to reiterate, China certainly experienced earthquakes, flooding, also unseasonal weather. That certainly had an impact early in the quarter.

Philippines experienced typoons. Europe experienced unseasonal weather, very unseasonal weather in April and also we experience labor strikes in both France, Greece and Spain. And Japan and Russia were again impacted very significantly in terms of the unseasonal weather.

Now, it is again very difficult to quantify. We do know that these had an impact on our business. No question. And then you see countries like the Philippines where the food inflation is having an impact on consumer sentiment and we are going to see that continuing.

But I think overall it is -- we know that had those one-off events had not taken place that our volume growth would have been higher in certain markets like Russia, certainly in markets like China and also for sure in Europe where we have a very solid foundation of our business.

So I think you can isolate some of those things into the quarter, and then Brazil where the economy is very, very robust, we saw again a significant expansion of credit endurables that had an impact in our business early in the quarter, but again that was also a one-off because we don't see that continuing going into the balance of the year.

So those are sort of the comments that I would give you. I think we see that although at a slightly slower rate the macro economies in the brick countries are going to continue to grow and the emerging markets are going to continue to grow.

The difference between what you see today and the economic environment versus what you saw perhaps a decade ago in the crisis was -- is that the current macroeconomic -- current economies of the emerging countries are much better positioned from a fiscal discipline, monetary disciplined points of view to weather some of these current challenges and again we will all see and live through.

But I want to reiterate that certainly the business that we are in is a business that -- where we sell essentially a very affordable luxury billions of times every day is one where we are very confident that we can continue to grow going forward.

JUDY HONG: Okay. And just a clarification on this year's outlook because I think Gary mentioned that you guys are confident in achieving the long-term growth target this year. Are you backing off on your comment before about the picture of success this year being exceeding those long-term targets?

MUHTAR KENT: We have reiterated that our long-term targets of 3% to 4% volume growth, 6% to 8% operating income growth and high single digit earnings growth and the picture of success for us is to exceed those, and I think we currently will be disappointed if that is not the case.

JUDY HONG: That is still the case this year?

MUHTAR KENT: We would not disappointed if that is not the case.

JUDY HONG: Yes. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning everybody. Question on, as the bottlers are beginning to raise price further in the second half of '08 due to commodity increases in the U.S., maybe as high as mid to high single digit in the U.S. I think [Holenic] had talked about mid-single digit.

Will you be raising concentrate prices more than historically to offset any of the volume impact that you might suffer? Would you wait for January to raise the concentrate again? Are you trying to evaluate more say incident based pricing type models in these developed markets due to the inflationary outlook versus past practice? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Hi Bill. I don't think I want to go into the details of our concentrate arrangements with our bottlers but you can rest assure that I think firstly please it's important to understand that our bottlers financials architecture today is much stronger than it used to be three four years ago in terms of their rate, in terms of their cash position, in terms of their willingness and appetite to invest in the market place.

And again the commodity increases are impacting our bottlers in very different ways in different geographies. So don't -- it's wrong to assume that it's all going to be looking like the U.S. picture across the world in terms of its relationship to the revenue that the bottlers are generating out of the cases that they are selling.

But we have very good equitable arrangements in place with our bottlers to ensure that we remain very disciplined in the way we continue to invest in the marketplace, to continue to ensure that our brands are healthy and continue to ensure that we gain volume and value share as we move forward in this environment.

BILL PECORIELLO: But in certain regions where the bottlers might have to take higher pricing if you look at what we are seeing with the Proctor & Gamble's other companies that are raising prices in your case, as the bottlers would be raising you might take more of the impact in your P&L. But you obviously have leverage whether it would be market support in concentrate, but you would be working with the bottlers on adjusting those levers so you won't suffer any harder impact from those increases?

MUHTAR KENT: Absolutely. The key word is to optimize volume and value and also the key word is equitable.

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marc Greenberg with Deutsche Bank.

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning Muhtar. Today's results said CCE, weak volumes $5 billion impairment indication of another comprehensive business review. Bare all the markings of a bottlers that belong in the hospital ward. Does Coke still believe the best go-to-market approach in the U.S. is with an independent bottler and what might cause your point of view to change there?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, firstly, I think we are continuing to work with CCE, all our bottlers to optimize our value and price to the consumer and customer in this challenging -- it is a challenging cost environment, and that the going forward to grow value in a sustainable way to balance volume and share as well as operating income and we are aligned on many aspects.

Of course, I want to just reiterate that we are working very closely with CCE, and all our bottlers. There is no question that we feel that this market has tremendous potential and that we will realize that potential. We have a much stronger portfolio.

We have a very close working relationship and I want to just reiterate if your question is going that way, that we have no plans in place to I've said it before or any intention in acquiring the bottler that you've talked about.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes. Good morning. Thank you. As you talked about these one time items, I guess the question would be is as you cycle through some of them they should dissipate and can you give us a clue, have you seen any acceleration as we sort of cycled some of these?

Talk as you went through the second quarter but also give us an idea, I realize it's a couple of weeks into the third quarter, would you say the run rate is improving as you've move past some of these factors?

MUHTAR KENT: Well John, first we don't provide mid-quarter updates, but I just want to say that we remain confident in the long-term prospect of the business recognize that we are facing uncertain economic conditions, but remain fully committed to delivering on our commitments.

We do closely monitor the economic environment market by market and I can tell you that we have very flexible plans in place to adjust our plans where appropriate in terms of packaging price points and as I reiterate our picture of success continues to meet or exceed our long-term targets.

And in terms of -- I believe in statistics and probability, and I do believe that the one-offs should not continue going forward. We may have other one-offs, but I don't think that all of those will come together all in one quarter in that intensity. And Gary, you want to add to that?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John let me see if I can add a little bit of context to it in two different ways. One, you really have to talk about different countries because there is a lot of volatility in the macroeconomic environment today, but let me give you a couple of examples. Brazil, if I told you about Brazil for a minute and focused on it, it was 1% growth in the quarter, but it was a really bad April, but actually returned a nice growth in May and June.

If I look at Europe at Germany or Great Britain very bad April, returned to growth in May and June but I can give you some examples that go the other way. It depends on the country. So we think a lot of it is telling us kind of these one-off items but sure there are some macroeconomic environmental factors as well. But to try to quantify any of those, would be kind of speculation on our part. That is why we feel comfortable.

I guess the other point I'd make though is we have a management team that has seen this before. We have been through this before. In the late '90s if you remember when it was much worse and the emerging markets were so tied to the U.S. and thank God they are not any longer, we've been through this before and we know what to do. And that is why we feel very confident where we are and why we are gaining share and we would expect in this kind of environment with our system and with our brands, we plan to come out of this much stronger actually than other companies in the industry.

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning.

Muhtar and Gary, I had just a housekeeping question. I was wondering if you can tell us how much Glaceau added to your North American volumes and were there any other ongoing or lingering issues with your large format water and then I want to understand whit your SG&A growth in the quarter.

You talked about the bottler and brand acquisitions impacting that a lot. As we are cycling through this if your acquisitions of bottlers slow, what kind of leverage could we hope to see there or would you continue to expect the same kind of leverage once we cycle that impact?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. I'll ask Gary to comment on the second piece of the question, but in terms of Glaceau. That added 2% points for the quarter for our North America business going forward. So that's the number that I think you were looking for and then Gary you want to take the piece on the SG&A?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, on the SG&A what you would -- basically for the quarter let me go through that again first. SG&A was up 16%, about eight points of that was currency, four points of it was structural and about two points for brand acquisitions. So if you strip all that stuff out apples to apples, OpEx was up about 2% within that marketing up in line pretty much in line with gross profit, so you are seeing some pretty good leverage coming from tight control on G&A spend within that.

Now related to that, we put some of those programs into place late last year, so we'll start cycling those. We'll continue to see leverage, but it will be left at what we've seen in the first half of this year, which was about four points of leverage in the quarter.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. Great. And then on your currency Gary, have you indicated what you plan to spend that back on or is that embedded into your plans of what you've discussed?

GARY FAYARD: It's embedded in the plans. We actually are aggressively managing portfolio managing. And we have increased spend in some areas, but at the same time we are being very discipline on spending back that it needs to have a long-term return for us, and so we are very discipline in what we are spending.

So that is why you see a lot of the currency benefit coming through dropping right to the bottom line because we are continuing to spend in line with our plans. We've increased that somewhat as we portfolio manage as well, but our plans already had significant marketing spend behind the Olympics and Euro 2008, so I think we are very well positioned in marketing where we see opportunities we'll jump on it, but at the same time if it is not a good financial long term financial decision, we are very disciplined and hope it'll flow through, as it did this quarter.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.

BRIAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Gary a question on the restructuring charges and savings. A couple of questions. First just all the spending, will be all cash? So were there any writedowns or the amount that you are going to spend to generate the charges going to be all cash?

GARY FAYARD: Brian I would say most of it will be cash. There would be some write downs on facilities, et cetera, that we close. Example -- the current example would be that we just closed one of our concentrate plants in Ireland. We announced that last fall.

It actually closed in June. So last month. And in that you had kind of cash restructuring charges as well as write-down of the plant itself, all within that restructuring. So you'll have some -- some of both, but I would say tend more toward cash side both on the savings and on the restructuring charges to achieve those savings.

BRIAN SPILLANE: And then would there be any capitalized spending associated with this as well?

GARY FAYARD: Not, not really anything of any significance, no. Okay. And then in terms of just how we flow what you are spending versus the savings, is the 25% per year the way we should think about the spending or are you going to spend more up front and the savings come through more gradually? We are going to do this one the way you would really like it to be done. It's almost we are trying to achieve it 25% per year for both sides. So it will be fairly well matched.

BRIAN SPILLANE: Okay. Great. Thank you.

GARY FAYARD: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everybody. First thing if we can talk about marketing a bit. Can you comment if given what is happening to the economy if you are shifting some of your marketing strategies potentially from advertising over to promotions in areas like the United States? And also as it relates to the economy as we think about western and eastern Europe where private label is a little stronger, can you talk about if you are seeing any trading down?

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Kaumil. Not just in the United States or Europe, but everywhere we remain very flexible and in fact you see us shifting some of our emphasis in our marketing programs but not just in marketing programs but also in the area of packaging ensuring that we remain affordable and ensure that we can continue to capture all beverage opportunities around the world and I think what you see us doing is to make sure that we remain relevant to the consumer and also that our key partnerships with all our key customers small or large continue around the world.

I think we will do whatever is necessary to ensure that we can keep maximizing our growth and also gaining volume and value share in all our markets. In Europe, specific to your question about discounters, what you see us actually is that we are gaining availability in discounters quarter by quarter in Europe including not just in little, but in all key discounters. So you see us being more relevant now with our different formats across East as well as across Western Europe.

What we see that in these times consumers find it easier to make decisions to buy affordable luxuries like our products and I think that our strategies are working because we are gaining market share across all our key markets in 17 of our top markets we've gained both volume and value share, and I think that you will see that continuing as we move into the balance of the year.

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning. Thanks. Gary, just a clarification. I didn't understand your comment about the productivity savings in the Q&A with Brian. When you said on both sides matching were you saying you plan to spend back those savings pretty much at a 125 per annum or 100 per annum depending on the total number between now and 2011?

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Mark. Basically as the savings come through, the costs will come through at about the same amount. So --

MARK SWARTZBERG: That was a reference to the charges I got you. But what about where those savings actually -- they hit the bottom line.

MUHTAR KENT: Let me just reflect on that. What you'll see us doing is -- we are realizing some of those savings as we speak and what you see us doing is ensuring that we spend some of it against our brands to keep our brands healthy and relevant and some of it will go into leverage on our P&L.

So you'll see us spending some of it and then using it to ensure that we continue our leverage our P&L, but what Gary was explaining was the cost to realize those savings as opposed to how we were going to spend the money.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Got you. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. You updated us on your commodity cost guidance for the Coca-Cola Company for this year, I was just wondering if you wanted to make some comment just with respect to the Coke system. Obviously costs are getting that much tougher. What is your expectation for the system and just also if you can be a bit more specific about what you are doing with your bottlers really just to manage these cost pressures? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: I think we see a fairly big difference between how the outlook looks in the United States and around the world. I think I made a brief comment on that earlier when I was answering an earlier question. But what you see is that in the United States clearly we see a much higher number than we've experienced in the past maybe around 5-6% this year and then double digits next year.

But certainly in terms of the international environment I think you see very different, huge difference in different countries but certainly much smaller amount in terms of how we see in 2008 and also how we see going forward. Both -- what you see in Eastern Europe or Western Europe, it is much, much lower than the numbers in the United States.

So the system what we see low single digits in 2008, and it is still difficult to assess exactly where it's going to land in 2009.

LAUREN TORRES: With that in mind thinking about your relationship and how you are working with your U.S. bottlers this year, what initiatives, what support, how do we think about your relationship and support with respect to these cost increases and how you can help offset that in partnership with your bottlers?

MUHTAR KENT: As I said, we are continuing to work very very closely with CCE and our bottlers to optimize value and price to the consumer and customer.

It is a challenging environment, and I think we are basically aligned in how we go forward on the importance of immediate consumption to build our brands on the importance of investment packaging differentiation and capabilities and on the continued investment in customer capabilities.

So you see us having significant number of initiatives also on supply chain optimization and maybe I'd like to turn to Sandy to give you a little more detail on that.

SANDY DOUGLAS, NORTH AMERICAN GROUP PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, everyone. The principal focus of our plan this year with our bottlers has continued to move aggressively on productivity initiatives and to bring support forward to support both packaging and marketing programs to drive growth.

We expect the system to look for pricing improvement in the balance of the year in a balanced way to try to begin to recover margins while at the same time protecting consumer value in all of our investment is helping achieve that in a balanced way while at the same time growing the health of the brands.

MUHTAR KENT: I just want to reiterate in the United States we have a much richer portfolio, much better architecture in our portfolio and brands in our stable in the still beverage categories our three-cola strategy is gaining traction.

And i think we certainly will continue to build on our rich still beverage portfolio growing the fastest growing to remain the fastest growing beverage portfolio led by Glaceau and Fuse and Simply Juices, but also to ensure that we continue to drive relevance to our consumer base with our three-cola strategy in the sparkling category.

LAUREN TORRES: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Carlos Laboy with Credit Suisse.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, I was hoping you can give us a more detailed update on your company owned bottlers. Who is the best performing bottler of these past quarter, what is working there and similarly who is still in deep trouble and for Gary, does this macro environment risk putting those company owned bottling earnings advances back into reverse or for those growth rates to stall out on us here?

MUHTAR KENT: Hi Carlos. I think that all our actual company bottling operations are gaining traction, they are enhancing margin. They are growing. They are gaining market share in their territories and both China, Philippines improving distribution, gaining market share in both those environments as well as in Germany.

I think we are gaining very good traction and leveraging the current architecture of the single bottling system working much closer with customers. Germany is an area where we've gained tremendous traction with all retailers, including discounters, where we are very successful with our different packaging and formats and portfolio.

Across Latin America the CBO's are doing very well. Scandinavia again, where we are gaining traction and doing very well and across the financial improvement, the performance continues to improve and our volumes are very much in line or better than the general market in all the territories.

GARY FAYARD: Yes, and relative to those let me just echo basically what Muhtar just said as well Carlos. The volume within the bottling investments group in fact organic volume was up 6%. So they are performing really well in this environment. Income is up significantly, and ongoing operating income margins increased 120 basis points, kind of ongoing.

So these bottlers while they were in the hospital ward the BIG group is doing a very good job of managing them across the world and in fact we are seeing improving results everywhere. So I don't anticipate any big issues there.

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Todd Duvick with Banc of America Securities.

TODD DUVICK, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Gary, I guess this question is primarily for you. The financial markets have been very difficult and some of the financial firms have had to raise additional capital and SunTrust has been one of those that's been speculated. Given that they own a significant number of shares, can you just refresh our memory in terms of what the policy is towards buying back shares directly from SunTrust? Is there an agreement in place?

GARY FAYARD: Thanks,Todd for the question. SunTrust does own directly about 44 million shares of the company's stock going back to the original IPO of the company. They have announced plans during this quarter that they are looking at ways to enhance their capital position and one of the ways to do that could involve either the sale of or some kind of other type transaction involving the Coke shares that they directly own.

They have not announced what if anything they've done at this point. I believe their earnings release and quarterly call is on I think Tuesday of next week. So I would expect -- I think they had said that they expect to have something in place by the end this quarter. So I would expect all of us to learn on Tuesday exactly where they are.

TODD DUVICK: Okay that's helpful and just a follow-up. With respect to your comments in the prepared remarks about deferring long term issuance that you had planned for this fall. Is that primarily to pre-finance some long-term debt that matures next spring or are you planning to term out additional debt that is currently in short-term debt?

GARY FAYARD: We were actually looking at terming out some of the acquisition debt from the Glaceau transaction. It's just we have a commercial paper program in place that we are in the market basically every day. We have not had a single issue at all in our commercial paper program. We are probably paying lower than almost anybody else in the world.

We have a great program there. As we look -- as the interest rates have come down, but as we look at the spreads on longer term debt, we just have concluded that it's not worth paying those kinds of spreads and we are going to stay short as we have for the last year or so and because of that we have put this interest rate lock-in, in anticipation of probably issuing some debt this summer.

We are not going to do that. We'll defer that as we continue to watch the spreads over treasuries, and we made $17 million on the deal.

TODD DUVICK: Okay. Fair enough. Thank you very much.

GARY FAYARD: Great. Thank you.

ANN TAYLOR: Operator we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This morning's final question will come from the line of Karen [LaMark] with Federated Investors.

KAREN LAMARK, ANALYST, FEDERATED INVESTORS: Good morning. I wonder if you can give us more color on the step up on the non-currency related CapEx as well as maybe what changed or what made you realize that you wanted to step up the investments? Thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Thanks, Karen. About $200 million step up. About half of that, about 100 million of that is really just due to currency. The other hundred is really about the timing around our bottler investment group.

If you think about it, they are growing nicely as I've said a few minutes ago when I was talking to Carlos. They are growing nicely. We continue to invest in the bottling investments group.

Because of the planning cycle, we are going ahead and spending some money now in orders so that we have equipment, lines, et cetera in place for the summer selling season next year. So we are accelerating some plans really from placing orders in January to now. And additionally we are starting to build a new concentrate type facility as well and that's going to add a little bit of cost in this fall.

KAREN LAMARK: Great. Thanks very much.

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Thank you Neville, Gary and Sandy and thanks to each of you for joining us this morning. I am excited to lead this great company and I am confident our strategies are working. The fundamentals of our business and the strength of our brands remain strong.

We are focused on the initiatives that will drive our results, execution in the marketplace and outward focus on our customers and consumers and diligence with capital and expense allocation. I am very excited about the next phase of our journey to create a true sustainable growth company. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the Coca-Cola Company's second quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080724e47h000e0
  


 HD
 Q1  2008 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,650 words
   PD
16 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis, and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.

I would like to now introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I am joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over to your questions. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the company's most recent SEC reports.

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our company website at www.theCocaColaCompany.com under the financial information tab in the investor section, which reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures that may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance to our results, as reported under generally accepted accounting principles. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start this morning with just a few brief observations about our first quarter results, and Muhtar will then provide details on the operational performance and the strategies we are employing, and that will be followed by Gary's overview of financials and some additional perspective on 2008.

Well, we're off to a good start for 2008, further building on our success in 2007. The strength of our brand portfolio, the breadth of our global system and the winning culture that thrives throughout the system continue to drive our business forward. I'm particularly pleased with our performance in the first quarter, given the very strong comparables from the prior year and the challenging U.S. economic environment. We once again proved our ability to successfully manage our portfolio brands and geographies, and do that over time to deliver balanced growth. We continue to see the benefit of successfully executing our system strategies, together with our bottling partners, and thus driving strong top and bottom line results.

We achieved volume growth of 6% on the quarter, successfully cycling 6% growth in the prior year. This is now the 12th consecutive quarter that we've achieved volume results of 4% or greater. Revenue growth was robust at 21%. The acquisition of bottlers contributed 5% to this growth, such that even excluding this impact, revenues grew a very strong 16%. Ongoing operating income increased 19%, with currency contributing 11%. So our currency-neutral operating income increased 8%, while, as before, we are continuing to make strategic long-term investments behind our brands. And notably, this is our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable EPS growth. Once again, our international operations drove our results, delivering unit case volume growth of 7%, even while successfully cycling 9% growth in the prior year. Importantly, the growth continues to be sourced from developed and emerging markets.

All operating groups delivered growth, with the exception of Africa, which had a challenging cycle of 17% growth last year, but also significant power shortages in South Africa, which impacted the results. Even in North America, we achieved slight growth, despite the difficult macroeconomic environment. The current strength of our portfolio also enabled us to deliver balanced growth. Sparkling beverages, unit case volume increased 3% in the quarter, with our international operations delivering 5% growth on top of 8% in the prior year. This growth was led by trademark Coca-Cola and the continued expansion and strong performance of Coca-Cola Zero, which is now in 81 markets. This is particularly noteworthy, given that we are now cycling the successful launches that took place in 2006 and 2007. Additionally,trademarks Fanta and Sprite delivered 2 and 6% growth respectively. Still beverage unit case volume increased 17%, driven by robust growth across our portfolio of juice, tea, and water brands.

Clearly, our strategies are working and we are expanding our volume and value share relationship position in the nonalcoholic, ready to drink beverage industry, as well as in sparkling beverages and key still beverage categories. As I enter my final quarter as CEO, I am pleased with our accomplishments and our solid performance. We have put in place a strong foundation, and I remain confident in our outlook for 2008. Our well balanced geographic mix and broad portfolio gives us a unique position from which to manage through current head winds.

So with that, let me now turn the call over to Muhtar to provide the details on our operations. Muhtar?

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT, COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville, and good morning, everyone. Overall, this was another solid quarter for the Coca-Cola Company, again, characterized by balanced growth across countries and across brands. As Neville indicated, our performance in the quarter was once again led by our international operations, where we continue to reap the benefits of our scale, our world class franchise leadership, and the successful execution of our clearly defined strategies to drive growth and address key issue markets.

We continue to make significant investments for the long-term in our brick markets. In emerging markets, we focus on realizing profitable growth,and continue to expand our leadership positions in our developed markets, with value growth. Our performance in 2007 and thus far in 2008 underscores this approach, and we believe enables us to appropriately manage our portfolio for balanced and sustained growth, as we track emerging macroeconomic trends. With the international business growth in our emerging markets remains strong. For the quarter, we achieved double-digit growth in key emerging markets, including China, India, Russia, Brazil, Turkey, the Philippines, as well as eastern Europe. Double-digit unit case volume growth in trademark Coca-Cola drove the results in most of these markets, whilst we continue to rapidly expand our portfolio with the continued success of Minute Mate Pulpy, the strong growth of our sparkling and still portfolio in Russia, and the launch of the new mainstream tea, Original Leaf in China. Additionally, China continues to leverage the Olympic games to drive positive performance.

In our Eurasia and Pacific groups, we delivered strong growth of 13% and 10% respectively, primarily driven by the solid performance of these emerging markets. In Eurasia, we're improving our share trend and are delivering healthy balanced growth across all key countries. And in the Pacific group, we're continuing to invest for future growth and achieving nonalcoholic ready to drink value-driven share gains. Japan's performance reflects our efforts to successfully stabilize our business. Japan achieved slight unit case volume growth in the quarter, cycling 3% from previous year. This is now the sixth consecutive quarter of growth in Japan. Sparkling beverage volume growth was led by trademark Coca-Cola, which increased double digits, benefiting from the successful execution of our three-cola strategy.

Georgia Coffee, for the second consecutive quarter, also delivered growth. We launched a new marketing campaign, which is connecting well with consumers. We are continuing to innovate around the brand with new flavors, new packaging, as well as marketing initiatives to drive further growth. The European group demonstrated it has established a solid foundation from which to deliver balanced, broad-based geographic and brand growth. Europe achieved 3% unit case volume growth in the quarter, successfully cycling 11% from the prior year. Importantly, key countries delivered solid growth in the quarter, Germany growing unit case volume at 2%, successfully cycling 11%, as we continue to expand our availability in the fast-growing discounted channel. We continue to be encouraged by our progress in Great Britain, which increased unit case volume mid-single digits and delivered its second consecutive quarter of growth. Europe also achieved balanced portfolio growth, with sparkling beverages growing 2% and still beverages increasing 14%.

Sparkling beverage growth was led by the continued success of Coke Zero and our three-cola strategy, which jointly drove category share gains in the quarter. Coca-Cola Zero has now been launched in 26 countries in Europe, and continues to recruit drinkers back into the category. We also continued to create innovation in the category, with the launch of Coca-Cola Light Plus in France, a product offering vitamins and minerals, and now in six international markets. The expansion in still beverages was driven by double-digit organic growth in Nestea, Aquarius, PowerAde and Burn. The brand performance led to volume and value share gains in still beverages for the entire group. Additionally, I am pleased that our global joint venture with illycaffe the premium brand of ready to drink coffee, is now launching in 10 European countries. European consumers will now be able to enjoy three premium espresso-based offerings, and this is a great example of an idea moving from conception to the marketplace in less than a year. We believe this partnership is going to enhance our global leadership in the fast-growing, high-value ready to drink coffee category.

Latin America delivered strong results in the first quarter and continues to be a dynamic story for our company. Unit case volume increased 9%, with all business units delivering solid growth. In Mexico, unit case volume increased 11%. Continued solid organic growth was led by a mid-single-digit unit case volume increase in trademark Coca-Cola. Key marketing initiatives around Coke and meals and the Happiness Factory 2 campaigns led to volume on value share gains. We are successfully integrating also Jugos del Valle into our system, and whilst early days, it is performing ahead of our expectations.

In Africa, unit case volume in the quarter declined 1%, cycling strong growth of 17% in the prior quarter. South Africa, in particular, had a challenging 29% prior year growth rate to cycle, which reflected the replenishment of trade inventories due to CO2 shortages at the end of '06. Additionally, CO2 shortages in the current quarter also contributed to the 9% volume decline in South Africa. Our system is currently investing in manufacturing capabilities that will allow us to produce our own supply of CO2 and therefore minimizes the impact on us in the -- which will minimize the impact on us in the future.

Now, I would like to move to North America. As you are well aware, we faced a challenging macroeconomic environment in the first quarter, which not only affected our North America business, but also negatively impacted the U.S. beverage industry as a whole. Specifically, our food service and other on-premise businesses were hit the hardest. However, our consistent focus on executing our strategies and our commitment to winning, enabled us to deliver slight unit case volume growth in the quarter. While our performance in North America is not where we want it to be, I am encouraged by the steadfastness of our teams, despite the overall U.S. industry volume declining in the first quarter, we actually gained volume and value share. I am confident that we have the right strategies in place to deliver against our goals. We will continue to invest behind our brand, as well as customer relationships, while improving our end market execution.

We continue to execute our three-cola strategy. In the quarter, our U.S. business achieved share gains in core sparkling beverages, led by Coca-Cola Classic, Diet Coca-Cola, and Coca-Cola Zero, each gaining share. Coca-Cola Zero continues to drive strong growth, achieving more than 40% volume growth. Two and a half years after launch, cycling, in fact 27% growth from prior year. On the marketing side, we are investing in brand-building activities and connecting to the passion points of our consumers through our Super Bowl advertising, sponsorship of American Idol, the NCAA Final Four, as well as Daytona 500 activation.

Importantly, our still beverage portfolio continues to outperform the industry, driven by the strong performance from Glaceau, Fuse, and our warehouse chilled juice business. Glaceau and Fuse continue to perform ahead of expectations, reflecting increased availability, as well as velocity through our hybrid distribution model. These acquisitions remain a key catalyst for our overall business in North America, creating greater alignment between us and our bottling partners, as well as providing resources to continue to invest behind our total portfolio. In the first quarter, we began the international expansion of Glaceau, first in Australia. We will continue to strategically look at other markets to expand the brand throughout 2008.

As Neville and I have been saying for the past several quarters, we are committed to restoring growth to North America and have taken important steps to put us on the right track. Despite the challenging environment in 2008, we will continue to invest, along with our bottling partners, for growth. We are aligned with our bottling system and our customers behind a strong marketing calendar for the remainder of the year. Overall, I am pleased with our performance in the first quarter. However, we continue to recognize there is still much more work to be done, particularly in North America.

Globally, our performance going forward will be underpinned by the successful execution of our five strategic priorities, which I have previously laid out. I am committed to continuing improvement in the execution of our strategies. Even in the face of a challenging economic environment, I am confident that by leveraging the scale and power of our brands, our consumer base, customer network, and franchise system to capture the greatest share of opportunity while carefully managing our expenses, we will achieve another successful year of growth for the Coca-Cola Company, and create value for our share owners. Now, let me turn the call over to Gary.

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. As Neville and Muhtar indicated, we're starting the year with solid financial results. As you saw on the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.64 per share. On a diluted basis for the first quarter, an increase of 19%. This included a net charge, primarily related to restructuring charges and asset write-downs of $0.03 per share. Therefore, our adjusted EPS was $0.67 per share, an increase of 20% after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year. This is now our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable EPS growth. Net revenue in the quarter increased 21%, which included a 5% benefit from structural changes, primarily related to our acquisition of bottlers. The growth was driven by a 5% increase in concentrate sales, a 9% increase from currency, and a 2% favorable impact from price mix.

In the quarter, unit case volume increased 6%, which we report on an average daily sales basis. There was one less day this quarter than in the prior year quarter. Therefore, on a reported basis, unit cases and concentrate sales are in line for the quarter. In the quarter, the impact of one less day was offset by the shift of Easter into the first quarter, so really no net P&L impact. The second quarter will be impacted by the shift of the Easter holiday into the first quarter, but also note that in the fourth quarter of this year, we will have two additional days. We grew operating income by 15% on a reported basis, after considering items impacting comparability in the current and prior year quarter, operating income increased 19%, which includes an 11% benefit from currencies. So on an ongoing currency-neutral basis, we grew operating income 8%.

SG&A on an ongoing basis increased 21% in the quarter, about 17 points of that increase was due to bottler and brand acquisition, increased sales and service expenses, as we invested for growth in our bottling operations and from currency. The remaining 4 points were from our continued investment behind our brands, while controlling G&A expenses as we focus on productivity and expense management. Additionally, we continue to see margins improve in both our core business, as well as in our bottling investment group. Our continued focus on driving efficiency and effectiveness throughout our organization generated 3 points of operating expense leverage on our core business. Cash from operations for the quarter increased 18% to $1.1 billion, on the strong underlying business performance. In the quarter, we repurchased approximately $309 million of our stock. We still anticipate that our range for share repurchase for the full year will be between 1.5 and $2 billion.

Now, let me address some of the factors we see impacting the remainder of 2008. We remain confident in our ability to achieve long-term sustainable growth, despite the slowdown in the U.S. economy, given our balanced geographic mix and brand portfolio. As you have seen from our results, our international markets, particularly our emerging markets, have maintained their strong performance, even against a difficult economic environment in the U.S. Globally, we have strong, aligned plans in place with our bottling partners for the remainder of the year, which reflect the realities of the local economic conditions. We will continue to portfolio manage globally, as we expect solid performance in most of our markets, with softness in North America, as our business in North America will continue to be impacted by the difficult economic environment in the near term.

From a commodity cost perspective, our assumptions are unchanged. We would expect a slight increase for the system and essentially flat for the company. From a capital expenditures standpoint, we purchased approximately $372 million in net property plant and equipment during the quarter. For 2008, we continue to expect total company net capital expenditures to be approximately 1.6 to $1.7 billion, as we make investments primarily in our acquired bottling operations. With regard to taxes, we ended up the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate of 22%, and we expect to remain at that underlying rate for the remainder of the year.

Finally, let me move to currency. As I mentioned, we saw a positive impact from currency for the quarter on operating income of 11%. This was clearly ahead of our previous expectations, given the change in market rates late in the quarter. We are effectively covered for the full year on the Yen and the Euro, and I would remind everyone that in our hedging strategy, we use an option strategy so we maintain all of the upside in currencies. Based on current market rate expectations for the remainder of the year and benefits of coverage in place, we would expect currency benefits on ongoing operating income for the full year to be in the mid-single-digit range. Given the greater than expected currency benefit, the company is evaluating whether there might be opportunities to reinvest a portion of the currency benefit in marketing programs and productivity initiatives to drive long-term sustainable growth.

That's what I wanted to cover this morning. Operator, if we can now turn it over for questions.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Your first question will come from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. There's a lot that's growing here, but I want to focus on the segment that isn't, and that's North America. I'm wondering, Muhtar, in just looking at your margins for the quarter, which were down substantially year-over-year, we know that Glaceau is probably a lower margin business, while your fountain business is also a lower margin business and that was down. Can you just kind of go through perhaps those factors or other factors and how they might have impacted structurally the margin structure in North America?

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah, Christine, I'll just reflect on, first, the margins. Firstly, I think, you know, what you see is the Glaceau is adding, of course, revenue at a higher rate than it's adding obviously income, in terms of how it comes into the business and how it's reflected in the P&L. So you do see a greater, higher benefit from revenues versus income when you add Glaceau numbers to our total numbers. Secondly, certainly in terms of the food service, both cost of goods sold are impacted by freight, by HFCS, and we're continuing to invest in our marketing programs. But overall, I think that we have also a lot of supply chain initiatives that we're working on in our North American business and not all of them have been coming, and bearing fruit in Q1.

GARY FAYARD: And Christine, this is Gary, if I could add one thing to that, remember on Glaceau, that while on a percentage margin basis, it would not be -- the margins are not as high. On a pennies profit per case basis, it's actually higher. So Glaceau is very positive for us from an absolute P&L point of view. So really what you're seeing is some cost of goods and some mix with food service and sparkling down for the quarter.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: As well as some investment it sounds, thank you.

GARY FAYARD: We are continuing to invest behind the brands, in fact globally, in every market.

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thanks a lot, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody. Congratulations on a strong quarter. I also had a question on North America. Aside from the weak food service business, the retail business was also flattish if you exclude acquisitions. And I wanted to try to understand some of the other factors that could be playing a role there. Do you see -- you mentioned that you think the Coke system gained volume share, we saw Pepsi very promotional over the eastern channels. Was that a factor on the bottler, execution, any distraction as the Glaceau, which is exceeding your expectations as being integrated, is that having any impact? Then as you look at the balance of the year in trying to grow the business, would the U.S. be a prime candidate for getting any disproportionate reinvestment on the foreign currency upsides that you were referring to? Thanks.

MUHTAR KENT: Bill, hi, good morning. Firstly, as I indicated, overall industry decline in the U.S., but we have gained total beverage volume and value share in terms of the quarter. So I want to highlight that and our still beverage portfolio also continues to outperform the industry and Glaceau and Fuse continue to perform ahead of our expectations. And therefore looking into the second half of the year, we remain confident that we do have the right strategies in place. It's a difficult environment, and in terms of the, what is being impacted in the bottle and can side of the business is also, the image of consumption side of the business that is impacted more because of the way that -- how the consumer sentiment is currently reflecting into the total industry. So I want to just highlight that the retail -- our retail business performed better than the industry, and there's a move from on-premise to more home consumption and we're reflecting our marketing programs to realigning our marketing programs all the time on a flexible basis to ensure that we can capture whatever opportunities are out there. But there's no question that the, the food side of the business is more challenging at the moment, food service side.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Just to add on your comment about the end of March and our competitor, that does happen at the end of a quarter sometimes from a competitor. We have got a very balanced plan for the full year, and we don't react, as it were, week by week. And you know we've had a very strong quarter. So that, from a share standpoint, and that's because of the integrity of our programs and the way that we work in conjunction with our bottlers.

BILL PECORIELLO: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. Latin America was once again a stronger market for you in this quarter. I was just hoping you could talk more about how the weakness in the U.S. has or may carry over to potential weakness in Latin America, particularly Mexico. Have you seen evidence of this, or are you at least concerned about a slowdown in these markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Lauren, we have not yet seen any evidence of any slowdown in Latin America at the moment. There's -- we also -- we all read about the remittances from the United States having gone down significantly to Mexico at the moment, but right now from, in terms of the market sentiment, in terms of the consumers' sentiment, we have not yet seen any impact, not just in Mexico, but across all of Latin America. We haven't yet seen any. But certainly that could be a, that could be a risk going forward, but we have certainly not seen anything at the moment.

LAUREN TORRES: So far, with respect to volume and pricing, it's been well accepted and you've seen some good momentum there?

MUHTAR KENT: Absolutely, yes.

LAUREN TORRES: Okay, thank you.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Lauren, just to add, I was actually in the smaller markets, Chile and Peru a few weeks ago, and there's a vibrancy in Latin America that I don't think we've seen in decades, and reflected in some of those other markets, which are actually going to be -- they are not obviously of the size of the ones that we normally focus on, but from an incremental standpoint are going to be important as we look forward. So I think this is also true globally. We look at the bricks as we should and we will continue to, but again, around them are some of the markets, the Vietnams, et cetera, Philippines, where there is significant incremental growth for us as we go forward.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. I was wondering if you could update us in terms of any further thoughts on spinning off some of the company-owned bottlers. The margin improvement there has been very impressive. It seems like you've got great plans there and how is the spin-off of sort of the better functioning, the ones you've gotten -- the ones you've made better going to impact your margin targets and your growth targets in terms of looking at the bottling operation? Thanks.

NEVILLE ISDELL: John, let me give you a headline comment, then pass over to Muhtar. We've consistently said that, as you know, it will be our plan to divest. However, we really need to get these large bottlers, some of which we have only recently acquired, if you take China, if you take the Philippines, into really good shape before we move them on. And so for the larger ones, nothing immediate whatsoever, and I'll let Muhtar pick it up from there on some of the others.

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah, I mean the key for us, John, is that we, at first need to assure ourselves that we've got it right and working where we want it to be in terms of the conditions that we've brought, improved inside the operational side of the bottlers that we own. That's point number one. And you've seen us talk about -- Remil has found itself the right home and you'll see us doing more of that as we move forward. We're working on, on this investment of a portion of our equity in our Pakistan CBOs at the moment, and, again, that, that's because we feel the timing is right and we will move forward with that. And as we move into the future, you will see us employing different strategies, not just going out and selling, but structural also strategies to make sure that we have the right structures in place for the right markets, as we move forward in our bigger bottling investments, whether it be Germany or whether it be Philippines or whether it be China or whether it be India.

GARY FAYARD: I guess, John, this is Gary. I would add one other thing as well. As we look to dispose of bottlers, and you'll see some of those, as Muhtar said this year, and in fact this second quarter, the other thing we look for is ensuring that the bottling partner that we're going to sell to is, has the capability, not only financially, because we want a long-term sustainable successful bottler when we sell, but also has the management capability, the operational capability, to, to maintain the momentum once we have corrected these bottlers and continue for the long-term success of the system. So we're being very careful in who we sell to and what we do. And we're selling for a fair prices as well. We're not trying to maximize big gains. We're trying to maximize long-term, sustainable results as we go forward.

MUHTAR KENT: Just one add-on, John. Take what we're doing also in the face of ensuring that we may not own a bottler, but we may have -- we may employ a structural difference that will benefit our system as we move forward. Example is Korea, where now we have a local partner, very effective. We're working -- we have totally aligned and we've actually generated growth in the quarter in Korea for the first time in many quarters. And we're confident about the future there. So, you know, the main purpose is to ensure that we have the right structure in place for the future benefit of creating sustainable value and growth in that market.

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, and then, Gary, to your point on the second quarter, I mean I'm assuming you're going to sell off the smaller bottlers, so I'm assuming there's not going to be much of a P&L impact there, but any advice in terms of how we model it, or is it just too much of a rounding error to say there's really not going to be any noticeable dilution?

GARY FAYARD: There -- I mean there's not going to be noticeable dilution and in fact, on Remil, for those that don't know Remil, it's one of the bottlers we own in Brazil that we've announced that we're selling to FEMSA. We actually had planned to sell it. It was in our plan, so everything we've said about 2008, off the year end call today, it's -- we've had it in our plans the whole time, so it is not that significant.

JOHN FAUCHER: Cool, thanks.

GARY FAYARD: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, everyone. I wanted to go back to North America and I appreciate the comment that you guys are gaining market share here, but just looking at the broader industry and looking at a significant slowdown that we've seen in some of the higher growth segments in the still segments, like ready to drink tea, sports drinks, energy drinks, et cetera, I'm just wondering if you can talk about what are really the drivers of the weakness? Is it purely just the consumer weakness? Is there any concern that these segments are now becoming a bit more mature and that the growth rate is slowing down in some of these segments? Because it looks like the total LRB segment has seen a slowdown and it really seems to be coming from the slowdown from some of these higher growth segments.

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Judy, good morning. Firstly, just reiterating that our strategic focus is to ensure that we are the fastest growing still beverage company in North America, and our still beverage portfolio is outperforming the industry. Total still beverages for us grew 10%, double digits in the quarter. Warehouse chilled juices, led by simply trademark and Minute Maid enhanced juices grew and gained share. Glaceau and Fuse are continuing to perform ahead of our expectations, and we do still see growth ahead in those categories, in the still categories and the challenges around North America, as I said before, are about the food service side and about the immediate consumption side, and those -- we are addressing those, as I said, with refocused programs.

GARY FAYARD: Judy, I would add a couple of things. We have always said that our food service business is a leading indicator of the U.S. economy. And that's what we're seeing now. It, by the way, is a leading indicator will be one of the things that tell us actually that we're coming out of the economic issues that we are currently seeing in the U.S. So you're seeing a lot of channel-driven issues, food service, and it's just traffic is down. And you're also seeing the impact of the price of gasoline and, you know, people are staying at home, more future consumption versus immediate consumption, and that is truly just the economic conditions that we're seeing.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and, then, Gary, if I could just get a clarification on your comment about the outlook for the remainder of the year, I think you said that you're confident that you can achieve the long-term growth target. I think in the beginning of the year, you talked about your picture of success this year being, exceeding those long-term growth targets and I'm just trying to see if there's any change in the thinking there.

GARY FAYARD: No. In fact thank you for asking that. We were in all candor before the call debating whether we put it in the script or waited for you to ask the question, so I'm glad you asked the question. Our picture of success is that we should exceed our long-term growth targets. And I'll go further and tell you, without telling you exactly what they are, the metrics in our incentive plans for our compensation are in excess of our long-term growth targets.

JUDY HONG: Okay, and then just final question, Gary, on your corporate expense line, it was down significantly year-over-year. Is that basically driven by some of the cost savings initiatives bearing fruit, and is that a pretty good run rate to use going forward?

GARY FAYARD: It's a good run rate for this year and it is definitely part of our productivity initiatives. A lot of that is coming through in some, some health costs that we have taken some real initiatives around that to control some of those benefit costs. We have been doing -- and we're doing that in all areas of the business. So you'll see us continuing with a real focus on controlling G&A expenses, as we go forward.

JUDY HONG: Thank you.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Judy, just to add on to that, you know, our -- what we strive for always in all the productivity initiatives is that they result in some leverage on our P&L. And if you look at the core business, you see that we have achieved leverage on our P&L quite substantially also in the quarter. So that's how, you know, that's the measure of success in a way.

GARY FAYARD: And I would add -- let me just add one thing to that. As we continue to drive productivity and G&A, we continued very solid investment in the brands globally everywhere. So we're continuing with very solid investment on the brands, in marketing.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me just add to that as well, in that when there are times of economic difficulty, it's the weaker competitors that tend to suffer more. That's why we're continuing with the investment. And just as we've outlined that food service often is an indicator of what's happening in the broader economy, one of the early indicators of our ability to grow share is economic difficulty, because other companies will pull back on their investment in marketing. The noise level broadly in the marketplace, not just with respect to nonalcoholic ready to drink goes down, and therefore the impact of our investments is greater. And we've seen that over many cycles and we would anticipate that to be the case as we go ahead. So that is the mitigating factor for us as we meet the same head winds that everyone else does. And that's why we're maintaining that confidence behind our marketing programs and are investing behind them.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Muhtar, trademark Coke, it's your largest trademark. If I have my facts right, it slowed appreciably in the quarter, about 2% after accelerating to up 4 in '07. I guess first, do I have the facts right, and if I do, to what extent do you think that's purely a function in North America, and to what extent are there other factors at work here?

MUHTAR KENT: No, I think actually we're pleased with the growth of our sparkling beverages overall, as well as Trademark Coca-Cola. I think what you have to take into consideration is that now we are cycling. In international, it's up 4% and we're cycling now Coca-Cola Zero. And in fact, despite cycling Coca-Cola Zero, we're still growing trademark Coca-Cola, which is really the litmus test for success for us. You've got two factors that happen in the quarter. One is that North America is down, but also Africa, for specific reasons, related to South Africa, which was a big trademark Coca-Cola market, was down as a result of the specific shortages for CO2 resulting from energy shortages in the country and we're taking mitigating action to correct that. So we feel good about the results overall, both internationally and overall as a total global basis.

MARK SWARTZBERG: And the interaction between Coke Zero and the other trademark Coke names continues to be as favorable as you have seen it in the past?

MUHTAR KENT: Positive, and the same kind of dynamics in terms of incremental growth.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great, thank you.

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, good morning. Just wanted to follow up to John Faucher's question about the bottling assets. In India, Neville, when you first came back to the company, it was a lot of work that had to be done to fix that business and seems like it's on the right track, at least volumetrically. If you could talk a little bit about the profitability of the bottling operations in India now relative to where they were, and then also, I understand you have made a management change there during the first quarter. So if you can talk a little bits about the thinking behind that management change and what happens going forward there.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, the Indian bottling operations were profitable in 2007. We see that profitability expanding in 2008. I've just spent 12 days in India actually. And I was in a number of markets. Some of them are CPO markets and the quality of execution against what we had four years ago is actually chalk and cheese, which is what we're trying to do around the world. We're still not there yet in India. There's still a great deal to be done and I think that's true of all of the CBOs. I think that comes back to the question that we answered earlier on CBOs. We've made an awful lot of progress, generally profitability is improving. It is masked somewhat by the new acquisitions and the drag that they bring to it. You don't see it within that, but if you look at the ones that we've been working on for some time, every single one is reacting positively to the new management that we brought in four years ago in terms of Ariel and the people he's brought in.

So we have a really strong professional team now that's doing an excellent job. On the management change, Muhtar commented as well, but that essentially was just a normal cycling. We said John used to send there on a specific period of time to really put an expert in to change many, many things in a very short period of time. John's a very experienced executive, but that was the agreement with John. We have an Indian executive who has been trailing him who has now taken over, so we have local management. What happens with the turnaround, the first big -- difficult piece of the first tranche, you need a really strong individual to do that. Then once it's in place, you can bring someone who sees the strategies are all there and can continue to do that, and I spent sometime with him actually in India and we're confident we've got very good Indian management leading that business. Muhtar, I don't know if you want to add to that.

MUHTAR KENT: The only add-on would be that I'm also very pleased to see in India that it's not just the CBOs that the company-owned bottling operations that are performing, but it's the franchise bottlers and they are increasing appetite to continue to invest in the marketplace is driving results in every part of the country, in all markets, so it's not just the CBOs that are performing, but also the franchise businesses performing very well and although we have a much stronger brand portfolio in India, we've launched organically some still beverages that we believe will do very well in the area of juice and juice-containing beverages. We have a very good trademark in juice and Mazza, as well as Minute Maid. We think that India is on track, but as Neville said, long way to go before we can be pleased about -- it's still very low per capita when you think about it, so we got a long road ahead of us in terms of sustainable growth.

NEVILLE ISDELL: I just want to build off Muhtar's comment, because it's a very important piece here. And that is the new level of respect that the bottlers have for our ability to run bottlers, and what that actually does in terms of the overall system, and I will give you some anecdotal stories, but let me go back to India. Four years ago, I met a very, very unhappy group of franchise bottlers. I was with all the franchise bottlers, as I say, a couple weeks ago. I have never seen them more bullish. Muhtar's given you some facts around that. We were with the Mexican bottlers a few weeks ago. I can tell you four years ago I had a very difficult meeting with the Mexican bottlers. We had a very good meeting with the Mexican bottlers, and that -- I can tell you stories of those sort of pictures around the world. So yet it's, A, what we're doing with the portfolio, what we're doing with the marketing, what we're doing on the franchise leadership side. But also the confidence that we actually know what to do with regard to our bottling investments as well. I think there really is a positive synergy that comes out of this. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.

ANN GURKIN, ANALYST, DAVENPORT & CO: Good morning. As you look at many of your faster growing international markets, is there any reason right now to change your economic outlook for those markets, any reason to suggest a slowdown? And then is there any likelihood you'll use greater cash flow to buy back more than expected shares?

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me take the first part, Ann, and then I will hand over to Gary on the share purchase. As far as -- we had, again, a very, very good quarter in terms of how we grew both in the brick markets with China leading the way, but also in Brazil, also in Russia, very, very good results in Russia, both in the sparkling category, trademark Coca-Cola and also the still beverage category in Russia and India, as we've just talked about. But also in key emerging markets, such as Ukraines and such as Turkey, and such as some other Asian markets. I mentioned Korea also, that we had some growth for the first time in many quarters. So in general, we're very, very happy with the results and with the market conditions, with the investments, with the portfolio, with the alignment with our bottling partners and with the programs that we have in place for the balance of the year and going into the future. About, in terms of economic contagion, what happens, we haven't seen any results right now. What will happen in terms of the impact of the food prices around the world, we'll have to wait and see. You know as well as I do that there's a lot of current dislocation in terms of the staple goods, wheat and rice and corn, and that, you know, we'll see how all of that plays out.

GARY FAYARD: And as we go through that and because -- well, we are seeing obviously IMF last Friday I believe revised downward some GDP growth estimates in a lot of the markets. Our expectation is you'll see some slowdown in GDP around the world, but I think those countries, we continue to believe will still remain healthy and continue to grow, maybe a little slower. But recognizing that fact, that's why we said at the beginning of the year that our share repurchase would actually be in the 1.5 to $2 billion range because it is kind of uncertain economic times. So each quarter we'll revise that number based on what we see. We're still at the 1.5 to 2, but obviously cash flow is coming in significantly ahead of what we would have expected even 6 weeks ago, just from the currency upside that we've seen, and we'll be revising that as we go through the year.

MUHTAR KENT: And just one last comment on the macroeconomic situation. Based on my experience from past, previous macroeconomic head winds, what we do have a difference of this time is that across the world in terms of brick countries, in terms of macro, in terms of the macroeconomic indicators of the emerging markets, the fiscal discipline and the monetary -- in other words, all the emerging market economies are going into this economic environment with actually better fiscal discipline in terms of budget deficits, inflation, et cetera, than they have ever, ever faced such a situation in past years. So there is that, that piece to consider also.

ANN GURKIN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Anthony Bucalo with Credit Suisse.

ANTHONY BUCALO, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, everyone. On the expected currency benefit reinvestment, you touched on that in your press release and I think Gary touched on that in his comments. Are those plans in place, are they being created now and if so, how and where could we expect those to materialize for your company, and for your operation?

MUHTAR KENT: Well, the headline is they are still not in place -- let me let Muhtar make some additional comments. I think the important thing is, where we see opportunities, we will pro actively make decisions to ensure that we continue to reinvest behind our brands for sustainable growth. That's the real bottom line that I would like to underline. We don't have plans in place, but we see this as an opportunity, and therefore you will see us taking those opportunities where we see they will deliver, continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth. Gary?

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, I -- that's exactly what I would say, but on every opportunity that we see, we're being very rigorous as we go through looking at long-term returns. The things you would expect us to look at, we do have an opportunity, but we're going to be very prudent and review every, everything at a valid investment that we think we should make.

MUHTAR KENT: I just want to keep emphasizing the word long-term that you hear because I'm sure the fear might be that we take short-term actions because of the currency gains that we have, like just pricing actions, which are non-replicable as we go forward, and I just want to point out that that is what we're not going to do. You heard the words. We'll only do it if it's expenditure that is going to benefit the long-term.

ANTHONY BUCALO: So there's no specific broken bone that you're going to treat this year?

MUHTAR KENT: No, I mean we've, we've addressed our issue markets rapidly in past periods and you won't see us doing that. I think the two areas that you will see us focusing on opportunities will be investing in certain programs that will give us sustainable growth, long-term sustainable growth, and secondly also some productivity, behind some productivity initiatives that may require some investments up front.

ANTHONY BUCALO: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Mariann Montage with Thrivent.

MARIANN MONTAGE, ANALYST, THRIVENT: That's Montage. At the European Union, you seemed to have some pretty good numbers versus year ago at least on the volume side. As I look further down, I'm wondering if that's an area where you've started to put it more into marketing. Could you give us a little more color around that area?

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah, what I would like to say is that as I mentioned, we cycled a very, very strong quarter from previous year and the good news is that all our major countries, Great Britain and also France and Italy, and Germany, Spain, they all grew in volume and we also gained both volume and value share across the categories in Europe. You know, I think that the key word here is that we have the foundation in place to continue to generate long-term growth. We're cycling many programs, particularly Coca-Cola Zero -- great programs ahead with the European football championship happening in two key locations in central Europe this year -- particularly early summer will be soccer fever and we've got good programs across the Olympics and we feel that we can continue to generate long-term growth in this very key geography.

MARIANN MONTAGE: Okay. Since you threw out the word Olympics, can I ask, is marketing going to be directed toward the, what was it, a universal table kind of theme and then local theme? Is that how you're going to approach this?

MUHTAR KENT: It's going to be local from market to market, with customer-specific customer-related programs, as well as brand-related programs, mainly across trademark Coca-Cola.

MARIANN MONTAGE: Okay, thank you.

ANN TAYLOR: We have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: The last question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thanks again. Muhtar, on Vitamin Water, clearly it's, as you've note here, it's outperforming your expectations. I was hoping we could get a little bit more update on where the -- from a North America perspective, where the ACV in convenience for -- versus the 50 and 15 you had at the start of the year. And then also when you look at same-store sales growth for that particular brand or family of brands in some of the older markets, like New York and LA, you know, what are you seeing there versus some of the newer markets?

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah, I think that we -- as I said, we see some very robust consumer reaction to Vitamin Water. We've got basically ACV up to now 98% in the supermarkets, up from about 90% in preacquisition. Both Vitamin Water and Smart Water increases in velocity. The hybrid distribution system is really working well and you've seen us in the quarter, almost doubling the business versus prior year and, again, sourcing volume from across the board and generally creating a very good category platform for active life-style beverages, sourcing, volume from the sports category, from energy, and very, very powerful, again, particularly in the convenience channel as well as the supermarket channel and also with some customer-specific distribution in some food service, selected food service customers, as well as airlines, as well as almost now 40 extra campuses around the country, et cetera.

MARK SWARTZBERG: And when you look at the more, I wouldn't call them developed, but some of the older markets like New York and LA-- How are they performing on a same-store sales basis?

MUHTAR KENT: Very good vertical growth continuing, organic vertical growth.

MARK SWARTZBERG: Excellent. Thank you, Muhtar.

MUHTAR KENT: Yeah.

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, that will be the last question. I just want to say thanks to Muhtar and Gary. And also to each of you for joining us this morning. As you hear from our tonality, and I guess even the tonality of your questions, we're off to a very good start in 2008. I know what you're focused on, is this going to continue through 2008 and we are actually confident that our strategies are working and as I mentioned earlier, that we expect 2008 to be another successful year for the Coca-Cola Company. Just as a headline, we're just going to continue to leverage our leading brands, our global footprint, and also our strategic acquisitions to continue to drive growth and most importantly, long-term value for our share owners. Thank you very much, indeed.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude The Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080430e44g0008g
  


 HD
 Q4  2007 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,024 words
   PD
13 February 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to  The Coca-Cola Company's fourth quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) .   

I would now like introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor   

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, VP - DIRECTOR IR,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning. Thank you for being with us today. I'm joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions. Before we get started I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.   

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company web site at thecoca-colacompany.com under the Financial Information tab in the Investors section which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our web site for this information.   

Now, let me turn the call over to Neville.   

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN - CEO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. I'm going to start this morning with a few brief observations about the results and also highlight some of our accomplishments for 2007. Muhtar will then provide details in operational performance and our priorities for the current year, followed by Gary's overview of the financials and some additional perspective on 2008.   

Today, we reported a very positive finish to 2007 with another solid quarter of business results. A strong 5% unit case volume growth and 12% ongoing EPS growth capped an excellent year for  The Coca-Cola Company. In the fourth quarter, all operating units reported volume growth despite tough comparisons in some key markets. We benefited from the diversity of our geographic reach and our breadth and also the breadth of our product portfolio. We delivered consistent financial performance and achieved results ahead of our long-term growth model in each quarter of 2007. By successfully executing our clearly defined strategies, we achieved the following full-year results -- 6% unit case volume growth led by our international operations up 8% and robust 4% sparkling and 12% still beverage growth, 20% net revenue growth. Even when you exclude the acquisition of bottlers, net revenue grew 12%. Ongoing operating income growth of 14%, comparable earnings per share of 14% and cash flow from operations up 20%. Notably, this is our 11th consecutive quarter of delivering at least 4% volume growth. The strong top line performance is translating to bottom line results as we delivered our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable EPS.   

In 2007, we sold over 1.2 billion incremental unit cases, 1 billion being organic not acquisition related. What this actually means is that our consumers refresh themselves 1.5 billion times each day with one of our beverages. We are a company moving successfully by executing against a clear strategic growth agenda. Across the Company and throughout the system, talented people are driving growth and developing a culture of innovation and also improving efficiency. We realize the journey is long and we are by no means declaring victory but we can confidently say that we have a solid foundation upon which to deliver long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders. In 2007, we put our manifesto for growth into action. In fact, we now call it the "manifesto in action." We made commitments to strengthen our sparkling portfolio, to enhance our position in still beverages, to improve our capabilities in consumer marketing, customer leadership and franchise leadership, and ensure that our business is sustainable. I am pleased to report that we delivered against each one of these commitments and are well positioned to do so again in 2008 and beyond.   

Specifically, we strengthened our position at sparkling beverages with Trademarks  Coca-Cola, Sprite and Fanta all delivering solid unit case growth. In fact, overall, we captured 72% of the global sparkling beverage industry growth for the year. Trademark  Coca-Cola continued to be the key driver with  Coca-Cola Zero driving expansion of the category and gaining share.  Coca-Cola Zero is now in 55 countries and it has become our 12th $1billion brand. Moreover, we are executing against our three-cola strategy with passionate and award winning global marketing campaigns. This strategy has delivered the highest growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola since 1998.   

As I have discussed in the past, sparkling beverages are going to continue to be the backbone of our global growth in both developed and emerging markets. Through integrated marketing and connection of our brands to consumer passion points, like the Olympics year of 2008, American idol and Super Bowl, we are uniquely positioned to capture the highly profitable sparkling beverage opportunity. We also enhanced and expanded our still beverage business through organic growth and targeted bolt-on acquisitions. The biggest headline was our acquisition of glaceau and its vitaminwater brand. The (inaudible) growing premier active lifestyle beverage and it is now become our 13th $1billion brand. The acquisition has changed the game in North America beverages and helped align the  Coca-Cola system to invest behind a winning portfolio of brands.   

Beyond that one headline is continued global success across categories. Trademark Minute Maid increased unit cases 5%, driven by the expansion of Minute Maid Pulpy in China and other emerging markets. We have built a strong global juice position in all of the great countries, Brazil with Jugos del Valle and [supa mice]. Russia with the Molten brands, India with Maaza and now Minute Maid and of course China where Minute Maid Pulpy is the number one brand in key metro markets.   

In sports drinks and water we continue to look for the highest value opportunities and drive innovation through functional enhancement. Additionally, we are starting to make progress in the ready to drink tea and coffee categories. While we are number one globally in both categories, we are continuing to innovate in-house as well as work with our global partners,  Nestle and [Ille] to capture the opportunity in these fast growing categories. This solid performance across the portfolio resulted in our Company growing faster than the industry and capturing close to a quarter of the 5.5 billion incremental nonalcoholic ready to drink unit cases sold in 2007. We gained nonalcoholic ready to drink volume and value share globally driven by share increases in both sparkling and still beverages. Our progress in consumer marketing and commercial leadership sparked new interest in our expanding portfolio among shoppers, retail customers and our bottling partners. The Coke Side of Life, Happiness Factory, the movie, and other award winning marketing programs have reignited the energy and the optimism right to the core of our brands. And our bottling partners are investing behind the business and drive the inspirational market themselves at the point of sale. The combined efforts across the system are working and driving our winning performance everyday in the marketplace.   

Next a commitment that has become a true passion for me. We recognize that we cannot have a sustainable business unless the communities that we serve are themselves sustainable. Our commitments center around four key touch stones. Water, where we announced our new global partnership with the World Wild Life Fund to conserve seven of the world's most important water sheds and to become water neutral in all our beverage production processes. Packaging, where we see opportunities to turn today's waste products into valuable resources for the future. We announced a significant expansion of our U.S. recycling efforts by investing $60 million including the building of the world's largest PET bottle-to-bottle recycling plant in South Carolina and just last night, we announced the long-term target to recycle or reuse 100% of our aluminum beverage cans, which we sell in the U.S., which builds on our previously announced goal to recycle or use, reuse 100% of our PET plastic bottles. Climate, we are intensifying our efforts to reduce carbon emissions. For example, at the 2008 Summer Olympic Games, we will provide more than 5,000 climate friendly coolers and vending machines. And finally, well being. We need all consumers to understand the equation of calories in and calories out. We provide a range of beverage choices for our consumers and believe they thrive at the nexus of refreshment and nutrition. They all play a role in a balanced diet for all age groups.   

Overall, I am pleased with our accomplishments and strong performance in the quarter and the year. We have put in place a strong foundation and remain confident in our outlook for 2008. While we continue to monitor the weakness in the U.S. economy, we remain optimistic about the resiliency of our portfolio, particularly in the developing and emerging markets. Of course, our eyes are wide open and we will continue to analyze and respond appropriately to both opportunities and challenges. We believe that we will continue to progress off this strong base.   

Before I turn the call over to Muhtar, I would like to make a few comments about our announcement in December. As you know, we announced plans to begin a seamless transition of the CEO responsibilities to Muhtar effective July 1, 2008. This is something that I have been engaged with the Board on since my return in 2004. I have always believed that effective succession must be planned early in the game and also must be one of the core imperatives of how you manage the Company. Having worked closely with Muhtar for nearly 20 years, I am confident that his combination of industry knowledge, operational excellence, strategic vision, and commitment to our people which he has already demonstrated as President in 2008 will continue to take our Company forward. With that then, let me now turn the call over to Muhtar to provide the details on our operations.   

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT - COO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville. Good morning to everyone. The strong results we have achieved in the quarter completed what was a successful year for the Company strategically, operationally and financially. The consistent execution of our strategic agenda and the renewed vigorous confidence across the organization enabled us to deliver balance geographic and portfolio growth throughout the year. The fourth quarter was no different as all of our operating units once again delivered positive volume growth. Clearly the systems investments behind this brand, its people and its capabilities are paying off. We have built a strong foundation for sustainable, long-term performance.   

In the first quarter of last year, I outlined my key priorities for 2007 and I am proud to say that due to the dedication of our people around the world, we have made significant progress against each of those initiatives. First, our international operations continued to be the primary driver of growth for the Company. Volume performance exceeded our long-term growth target in every quarter of 2007. This success reflects the disciplined execution and local approach of our bottling partners everyday in the marketplace and the connection of our brands with consumers around the world.   

Second, in North America, we took a number of aggressive actions which address some of our challenges and enabled us to deliver on our commitment of sequential improvement in the second half of 2007. We remain committed to restoring consistent growth in our home market while becoming the preferred beverage partner for our customers.   

Third, our system-wide efforts resulted in improved efficiency for faster decision making and operating expense savings. These savings created operating expense leverage and were partially reinvested to drive top line growth.   

And finally, we continued to push the envelope with innovation in product, packaging, delivery as well as customer service. The global success of  Coca-Cola Zero, our most successful launch in the past 25 years, is a perfect example of this.   

Today, I would like to share with you details on our progress and add some perspective on our priorities for 2008. Our international operations continued their strong performance and increased full year unit case volume by 8%. The performance was broad based as evidenced by 19 of our key 22 markets delivering positive growth. Unit case volume growth in our international operations was led by the emerging markets. For the year, we achieved double-digit unit case volume growth in such markets as China, India, Brazil, Russia, Turkey, Eastern Europe and Southern Eurasia. In the Philippines, since we acquired control of the bottling operations we also have delivered double-digit growth. Africa also produced solid, balanced growth across key markets including a 13% growth in South Africa. While it is clear that we are maintaining our focus and winning internationally, there are a few key markets that I would like to highlight where aligned system execution is delivering progress and results. Latin America continued the success with all business units delivering solid growth. Latin America is now our largest operating group in volume terms selling over 6 billion unit cases. It is also our second most profitable operating unit with $1.75 billion in operating income. Mexico increased unit case volume 6% while Argentina increased 9% and Brazil delivered double-digit growth. The strong performance reflects the success of our strategies to drive growth in sparkling beverages led by Trademark  Coca-Cola and expand our footprint in still beverages both organically as well as through acquisitions such as Jugos del Valle.   

The strong performance in Mexico is particularly noteworthy as it validates our ability to transfer best practices to drive balance growth in high per capita markets as all around the world. In Mexico, our highest per capita market in the world, we added another 25 servings per person in 2007. The growth across the portfolio led to share gains in both sparkling as well as still beverages for the group. The European Union group has established a solid foundation for sustainable growth evidenced in the balanced geographic and category performance. Our marketing program and strong execution of our bottling partners provided the platform to overcome a difficult summer weather comparison from 2006.   

For the year, unit case volume increased 3%, successfully cycling 6% growth in the prior year as we achieved solid growth in most key markets. We are encouraged by our progress in Great Britain which returned to growth in the fourth quarter. Full year volume results in Germany were positive although volume was slightly down in the quarter as we cycled strong growth in the prior year quarter. We continued to make progress in this market as demonstrated by our move to a one bottler system and remain confident that we are building a foundation for consistent sustainable performance in Germany over time.   

Europe delivered solid growth with sparkling beverages up 2% and still beverages up 15% for the year. Sparkling growth was driven by 3% growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola including the continuing success of  Coca-Cola Zero now in 21 countries in the U. The strong performance of still beverages was the result of solid organic growth in Minute Maid, along with Nestea, Aquarius, POWERade and Burn, as well as targeted bolt-on acquisitions.   

The brand performance led to volume and value share gains in both sparkling and still beverages for the quarter and the full year. It is clear we have the right strategies in place and the EU leadership team is effectively managing our business with the goal of delivering consistent sustainable growth.   

In 2007, we also validated our track record of rapidly addressing problem markets and delivering on our commitments to restore growth to those markets. Let me give you some examples. Japan delivered its fifth consecutive quarter of unit case volume growth factoring 2% growth in the prior year quarter, importantly, all four key trademarks delivered growth. The double-digit volume increase in Trademark  Coca-Cola drove sparkling beverage growth. Execution of the three-cola strategy led to Trademark  Coca-Cola achieving its highest volume growth rate in 30 years. Georgia grew 1% in the quarter, its first growth in eight quarters. The performance was driven by growth of the 190 milliliter can in the vending channel. The results reflect progress against our previously shared plans to stabilize Georgia's performance. Aquarius (inaudible) also continued to perform strongly with innovation and solid integrated marketing execution leading to all four brands gaining share for the year. We have gained significant traction in Japan during 2007. With our management team in place and the help of our brand portfolio improving we will continue to build upon a stabilized business in 2008.   

Now let me turn to the Philippines. After acquiring the bottling franchise in March of 2007, we committed to quickly stabilize this key market and demonstrate sequential improvement throughout 2007. Our team's efforts to seamlessly integrate and improve execution through improved availability and focus on rapid execution resulted in performance ahead of our original expectations and volume growth for the full year. We continued to invest in market capabilities and cold drink equipment while driving supply chain efficiency. We remain confident that our management team will continue to drive growth in 2008 in the Philippines.   

Overall, I am very pleased with the performance of our international operations. We have a talented and experienced team of operators across the system and our bottling partners are aligned to deliver high quality, broad based growth while investing to solidify the foundation for sustainable growth in the future.   

Let me now discuss the progress we are making in North America. In the fourth quarter we achieved 1% unit case volume growth, the second consecutive quarter of growth. And we delivered on our commitment of sequential improvement in the second half of 2007. We continue to focus on revitalizing the sparkling beverage category with our three-cola strategy, Red, Black and Silver. For the year, all three brands gained category share.  Coca-Cola Zero continued to deliver strong double-digit unit case volume growth even after two years in the marketplace. Our key priorities for  Coca-Cola Zero are continuing to build trial, increase awareness and furthering channel penetration.   

For the second year in a row, the Coke Side of Life ads that were featured during the Super Bowl telecast were amongst the favorites of both media critics and viewers. It's mine, where the nice guy finishes first in a tussle for a Coke over the streets of Manhattan, made the top ten list in U.S.A. Today's ad meter and also was the most popular nonalcoholic beverage commercial out of nine beverage ads that aired during the Super Bowl event.   

The glaceau acquisition continues to perform beyond our expectations as the Trademark achieved triple-digit unit case volume growth in the quarter driven by both sales velocity and increased availability. Additionally, we successfully moved distribution to a hybrid model to take advantage of the strength of our system while leveraging glaceau's unique route to market strategy. I am pleased to report that the transition to our bottlers has been successful. This acquisition has aligned our North America system and we continue to expect the acquisition to act as a catalyst for growth across our entire North America business.   

While we have made significant stride with our portfolio and organization in 2007, we still have much to accomplish. Overall, however, I am confident that our North America system is executing against the right priorities and we remain relentlessly committed to our goal of returning our home market to sustainable growth. Our successes with  Coca-Cola Zero, glaceau, POWERade, FUZE, Full Throttle, Minute Maid, Simple Juices, Dasani and our recent investment in (inaudible) tea provides the business a much stronger base from which to build in 2008. Our bottling partners are aligned and the system is in an approved position to serve our customers and compete in the marketplace even with an uncertain U.S. macroeconomic environment.   

Finally, I'd like to share the progress we have made in driving efficiency and effectiveness. As I've said, the result of productivity ultimately is leverage in the income statement. In 2007, we successfully achieved this in the core business as well as in our bottling investments group. We flattened our organization from 80 fully functional offices to 37 business units across the world. This allows us to improve the speed of decision making and it improves our effectiveness. We executed Lean productivity initiatives at our concentrate manufacturing facilities and were able to increase capacity as well as operational efficiency. This resulted in the elimination of costs associated with a concentrate plant in Ireland.   

Within bottling investments, we reallocated expenses from manufacturing and production supply chain and invested in market facing roles to further drive execution in the trade.   

For  The Coca-Cola Company productivity remains a critical growth enabler to ensure the sustainability of our results over time. Looking forward we see three main areas of opportunity. First, supply chain optimization which will allow our system to maintain or enhance our gross margins and increase affordability of our product. Second, marketing and innovation effectiveness, where we optimize investments behind our brands and leverage global best practices. And third, operating efficiency which we use to fuel growth and build the foundation for future performance. This includes the ability to fund investments behind the highest impact innovations in product, packaging, ingredients, as well as equipment.   

As I look forward into 2008, part of the reason I remain confident is the results of the robust planning process we completed with our bottling partners. We have the plans in place to drive towards our ultimate goal of sustainable growth. We are focused on five strategic priorities. First, continue to drive growth from our leadership position in sparking beverages. Sparkling beverages provides the oxygen to our business. We know there's tremendous opportunity to grow all of our sparkling products in both developed as well as emerging markets. Second, drive faster growth in our still beverage portfolio by adding new functional benefits, developing affordable formulations, pursuing strategic bolt-on acquisitions and seeking margin enhancements. Third, continue to generate and leverage the balanced growth that we have achieved across our geographic footprint. Growth in our emerging and brick markets remain robust even as headwinds are developing in the U.S. economy. In North America, our business is stronger, our bottlers continue to invest and we are better positioned from a portfolio and operating structure basis. Fourth, accelerate the commercialization of our innovation pipeline through aggressive investments in products, ingredients, packaging and equipment. Fifth, further strengthen our system capabilities. Consumer marketing, commercial leadership and franchise leadership remain our core capabilities. We will continue to drive productivity across our system so that we can expedite decision making and rapidly respond to the changing marketplace. Savings extracted from these initiatives will enhance our ability to achieve consistent and sustained growth. And last, but not least, leadership development is the top priority across our system, fostering even more collaboration, accountability, clarity and calculated risk taking than ever before.   

Supporting all of this is our strong belief in the health of our business, supported by the sustainability of the communities we serve. We understand that by acting as an engaged positive corporate citizen we help create communities of favorably disposed consumers and as those communities grow our business continues to flourish.   

I am pleased with the results we achieved and the progress we made against our strategic agenda. As we enter 2008, we will be watching carefully the volatility in the macroeconomic environment. From the strength and foundation which I referred to earlier, we are better prepared to weather any potential challenges. I look forward to 2008 being another successful year for  The Coca-Cola Company. Now let me turn the call over to Gary. Thank you.   

GARY FAYARD, CFO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar. Good morning. As Neville and Muhtar indicated, the fourth quarter was a solid finish to the year where we achieved strong consistent performance in all quarters. As you saw in the release, reported earnings per share was $0.52 on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter, an increase of 79%. This included a net charge of $0.06 per share primarily related to restructuring charges and some asset write downs. Therefore, after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year, adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.58 versus $0.52 in the prior year, an increase of 12%. This is our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth and it is important to note that we successfully cycled our toughest quarterly comparison, cycling double-digit growth in both ongoing operating income and earnings per share in Q4 2006 again with double-digit growth in Q4 2007.   

I am sure you have also noticed that our volume growth, growth rate for the quarter was 5% versus our full year growth of 6%. We believe this is a very solid result. Sparkling beverages grew 4% for the quarter and for the full year, still beverages increased 11% versus full year 12%. This quarter was impacted at -- by a strategic decision to de-emphasize low value water in several countries such as China, which caused volume to round down to 5% in the quarter.   

For the year, reported earnings per share increased 19% to $2.57. This included a net charge of $0.13 per share primarily related to restructuring charges. After considering items impacting comparability in both years, earnings per share was $2.70 versus $2.37 in the prior year, a 14% increase.   

For the year, unit case volume growth was 6% in line with concentrate sales, revenue growth was 20% and 12% excluding structural changes related to bottler acquisitions. The increase was driven by a 6% increase in concentrate, a 4% currency benefit and a 2% favorable impact from price and mix. After considering factors impacting comparability, operating income growth was 14% and 10% on a currency neutral basis. In terms of margins, our core business remains healthy and expanded margins for the full year as we drove top line growth and delivered operating expense leverage. Bottling investments continues to improve margins as well.   

Cash from operations for the year increased 20% to $7.1 billion on strong underlying business performance and a decrease in working capital. We repurchased approximately $1.75 billion of our stock for the full year in line with our prior guidance. Additionally, the Company paid $3.1 billion in dividends to shareowners in 2007. For 2007 this contributed to a 30% total return to our shareowners.   

Now, let me address some of the factors that we see impacting the Company in 2008. As you know, our long-term growth targets are 3% to 4% volume growth, 6% to 8% ongoing currency neutral operating income growth and high single-digit ongoing earnings per share growth. We successfully exceeded these targets in 2007. Our picture of success will be to continue to exceed these targets. We recognize that there's some uncertainty, particularly as it relates to the U.S. economy; however, as Muhtar said, we remain committed to restoring growth in our home market and believe our business is well positioned to navigate headwinds that might develop. Emerging and brick markets have maintained their robust growth even against the backdrop of uncertainty in the U.S. market and we remain positive on the global macroeconomic outlook, especially in many of these emerging markets. As Muhtar detailed, we will continue to focus on driving efficiency and effectiveness across our organization and we will utilize the realized benefits to further improve our ability to deliver consistent and sustained performance.   

On commodity costs, 2007 was certainly a difficult year with cost pressures from several of our key system inputs, particularly in North America. Commodity cost volatility remains a risk.; however, as we said on the third quarter call, for 2008, we continue to expect to see a moderation in commodity cost pressures. Currently, our assumptions on commodity costs versus 2007 are a slight increase for the system and essentially flat for the Company. We expect to deliver operating expense leverage on both the core and bottling business in 2008, and we will continue to invest behind our brands and innovation initiatives. Additionally, selling and service expenses will increase as we invest for growth in our bottling operations as well as investments behind our brand acquisitions, particularly in North America.   

General and administrative expenses were tightly controlled in 2007 and we will continue our disciplined approach in 2008. We would expect net interest costs to increase for 2008 as we carry a full year of higher debt associated with our 2007 acquisitions. For 2008, our best estimate is that the full year underlying effective tax rate will be between 22% and 22.5%. From a capital expenditure standpoint, we purchased approximately $1.4 billion in net PP&E during 2007. For 2008, we expect the total company net capital expenditures will be approximately $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion as we make investments in recently acquired bottling operations. And we anticipate that our range of share repurchase on a gross basis will be $1.5 billion to $2 billion this year.   

Now, let me move to currency. We are effectively covered for the full year on the yen and for the first three quarters of 2008 on the other key hard currencies. Based on anticipated benefits of current hedging coverage in place, the Company expects currencies to have a minimal impact on operating income in 2008.   

Finally, let me say a few words about quarterly phasing. As many of you know, we report unit case volume on an average daily sales basis, kind of like same-store sales, to eliminate comparability issues due to calendar variations. For 2008, we will have one extra day since it is a leap year. The first quarter will have one fewer day than Q1'07, and the fourth quarter will have two more days versus Q4 '07. This will not impact our unit case sales reporting but will impact our concentrate sales and, therefore, revenues. Additionally, also remember that Easter will shift from Q2 last year into Q1 this year.   

Those are the topics that I wanted to cover and now we can turn it over to your questions. Operator?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) . Thank you. Your first question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman   

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Morning, everyone. Just looking at the fourth quarter volume trends globally, you have talked about a bit of a slow down, sequentially, I am just wondering how much of the decision to de-emphasize the water brand really impacted the global volume number. Good morning, Judy.   

MUHTAR KENT: This is Muhtar. Basically we had sparkling growth was the same number for the full year and as well as the fourth quarter, and we still achieved 6% growth in sparkling, international business so we are very pleased with that trend. What you see is a slight slowing down of the still beverages, mainly water and that is because we have had growth in juice, good growth in juice comparable to the full year, same as also in sports, also for tea and coffee. Essentially, it has been a de-emphasizing of the water business in big large markets, particularly in Asia, like China as well as Indonesia and therefore-- and mainly as a result of that category being low value for us. It has been a specific action on our part and we feel very confident about our business in all of the categories.   

JUDY HONG: Okay. And just kind of following up on that in terms of looking at just over the next 12 to 24 months and think about the macro outlook. You sounded still positive about the macro but just in terms of whether there are any regions or markets that may be a bit more concerning if the U.S. starts to show a bigger slow down.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Judy, Neville here. One other thing on the water just to give you a data point. Full year growth was 13%, if we take out vitamin water here the quarter was 8%, so that gives you the metric in terms of what happened with regard to water in the fourth quarter. We don't see there being a major impact on the emerging economies or the developing economies. There will be one or two economies where, in the developed world there have been housing bubbles where we think it will be some pull back, but balance, we think that the momentum that we have behind our existing brands and new brands, the better execution, all of the things we talked about in our call are such that we are going to be able to manage what may be a 0.5% decline at the worst in terms of overall global growth. I think we are ready to address the U.S. issue. So, let me put it to you this way. We feel we have a strong tail wind behind our business and that that is going to carry us through 2008, even as we see some areas where there will be some economic dislocation.   

JUDY HONG: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with  Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning everybody. I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the Pacific division which decelerate sequentially aside from the China water strategy, some of the other markets that you didn't discuss in the release, Indonesia, Korea, there were some reasons there for the sequential deceleration versus the prior quarters and what efforts you are doing in those markets to improve the growth. Thanks.   

MUHTAR KENT: Bill, hi. Essentially, Indonesia was specifically related, again to a slower down of the water just like we mentioned for China. As far as Korea is concerned as you know we've had a transition of our bottling partnership there we are very confident that our new partnership and alignment with our new bottling partner there will take us into a modality of growth in Korea for the years to come. We are confident about that. There's been a slight slowing down in the Australia economy but we feel generally confident that our business will perform in terms of its past historical trends in 2008, quarter-by-quarter in the Pacific.   

GARY FAYARD: Just to pick up on Korea, I think there's a real pattern here that you have seen with us. In terms of acquisitions, in some instances we turn it around very quickly like Philippines, in others more in depth reforms required, Germany would be one example of that. We take the pain along the way and that's really Korea, that's the story of Korea. And we are confident that we will see that one turning around, I think we have a good track record in that., we can deliver against it.   

BILL PECORIELLO: And then on the bottled water we should expect that across the four quarters as you made that decision and that would impact the following three as well?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: No, I don't believe it will meet I think we now are in a situation where we are going into 2008 pretty clean, in terms of where we want to be in the water category.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.   

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Morning, Bryan.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: A question on operating leverage. If you look at the 10% organic or currency neutral operating profit growth for the year. If you could give us a break down of how much of that growth was acquisitions, how much was cost savings and how much was sort of underlying organic growth and then as we look into '08, the company has taken over $400 million of charges over the last two years and what's the pay back on some of the restructuring actions and as we look at '08 what should we think about in terms of productivity as a contributor to profit growth?   

GARY FAYARD: Okay, Bryan. We hesitated on you for a minute because as we take these questions we are just trying to make sure that in fact you are who you say you are.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: I am the real deal.   

GARY FAYARD: As has been experienced by a few companies over the last couple of weeks. As we look at it, let me take you through a couple of different ways. Basically, if you look at currency neutral operating income, we have gotten about of 10% growth about 8% of that is out of the core concentrate business, about a point is out of the bottling investments group and about a point out of acquisitions, so that is kind of how it comes to your 10% operating income growth currency neutral, okay.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay.   

GARY FAYARD: Relative to the charges we in fact had within OPEX, let me just talk about, for the quarter and the year, kind of the the same. What we did this year, we had significant increase actually in marketing because we continue to invest behind the brands and we in fact accelerated some of that in the fourth quarter because we've had a really good year and we recognize we have flexibility to do that, to continue to drive the growth that we are seeing across all of our markets. Within sales and service it has been up but primarily it has been up because of the acquisition, primarily the bottlers but you will see some continued increase from that, not only there but also the brands. Within G&A ,in fact, G&A in the fourth quarter on, if you make it apples to apples, G&A in the fourth quarter was up 3% and 100% of that was due to incentive plans we have accrued for long-term plans because we have actually exceeded. It is where we want to be. Relative to restructuring charges, the biggest restructuring charges this year was really around closing a concentrate in Ireland which will be completely closed by mid year 2008. It was a result as we said from a flying lean manufacturing techniques to that and we have been able to in fact shut down a whole plant without any increased, no increases anywhere else. We are taking those, some of that is going to the bottom line but a lot of of that we are reinvesting actually behind the brands and into innovation to drive the sustainability of this business over the long-term.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Is it fair to say that the pool of productivity is going to be bigger in '08 than it was in '07? It is just a matter of how much you spend back and how much you flex to the bottom line?   

MUHTAR KENT: I would like to make one comment to build on what Gary said. You will see us relentlessly focusing across the entire organization on the effectiveness and efficiency measures and also the programs. As we said, we will take some of that to create more expense leverage on the P&L and we will continue to invest for health of our brands long-term.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bryan, just on the fourth quarter marking, when I came back, I discovered that we had major markets in the fourth quarter weren't spending a penny. The numbers wer'nt that good but they still wern't spending a penny. We are back up at a level now where we are 12 months, good solid support ran behind our brands and that's part of what you saw in the fourth quarter. So we are in good shape now going into '08.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Great. See you guys next week in Florida.   

MUHTAR KENT: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to ask a question, please press star and the 1 on your telephone key pad. Your next question comes from the line of Mark Schwartzberg with  Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, good morning everyone. Muhtar, I was hoping on your priority, specifically the one about accelerating still beverage growth you could peel the onion more for us there, talk about the roll of existing brands in that acceleration, the roll of new brands and giver us some idea if you can about regions you see the opportunity being bigger than other regions.   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I think that, as I said, the key is organic growth, as I said in, in my remarks, organic growth is oxygen of our business and you will see us continue to drive innovation in on organic growth in still beverages. I think the Minute Maid brand and the success of it in markets like China and Vietnam, Korea is a great example of that. I think you will see us in, we have just launched that also in India and it is doing very, very well. You will see us focused on glaceau internationally. You will see certainly adding much more function and benefits to our portfolio through innovation. I would like to highlight one thing that Neville said. We are now the leader in juice in all four brick markets; that's an incredible footprint, when you look at Brazil, Russia, with our [dugbly] brand when you look at Brazil with Jugos del Valle and sucos mice, and when you look at China with the Minute Maid Pulpy across all metro markets number one. So in India with MAZA both in the mango category of juice as well as the lending mango category as well as in the citrus now with our new launch. And many other emerging markets. So you will see us focused much more on organic growth, we have got a great portfolio and we have a great innovation pipeline we will drive-thru that portfolio.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: I know it is early but your comments on on glaceau internationally. We have heard your willingness to look at that since the day you announced deal, but you've had six, seven, eight months to test the water from a consumer buying or potential buy in in markets other than the U.S. other than North America. Have you found anything of interest there in terms of the opportunity for that brand on the other side of the world if you will?   

MUHTAR KENT: You will certainly see glaceau in international markets in the very near future. CC, yesterday said in Canada, they will launch it in Canada in quarter two. I think you will see us in different international markets with that brand.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Okay. The linkage between that and POWERade here in North America is notable is that fair linkage at least in some cases on the other side of the Atlantic and Pacific?   

MUHTAR KENT: We have said always that you glaceau is a wonderful brand that has categories and sources volume from different categories whether it is sports or enhanced waters or the entire active life style category. So it is, it is a category really on and we believe that it will also hit the same buttons with consumers in international markets as we progress that trademark in vitamin water into the national markets.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Very good. Thank you, Muhtar.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher with  JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Morning everyone. Quick question on Japan, it looks as though the fourth quarter of this year was only about the second positive volume number on a positive comp in the past couple of years, the last being last year's Q4. Can you talk a little bit about the ability to sustain that. What level operating profit you have been delivering in Japan on a currency neutral basis over the past year or so and can you keep the volume positive while maybe needing to accelerate the operating profit growth there over the next couple of years? Thanks.   

MUHTAR KENT: Hi, John. I have said that clearly our target was to stabilize Japan. And we have done that in 2008 and we have consecutively, in 2007 and we c v consecutively delivered quarter after quarter growth. We are now in a much more normalized position in Japan. You will see 1 and 3% growth over the years. That's our target. That's basically how we see the picture of success. We expect modest profit growth in Japan, especially as we stabilize Japan in 2007. What we see is that our bottling partners are in a much more strengthened positions, and you are seeing one of the key categories in Japan. One also important thing in Japan in 2007 was growth in two key channels, the vending and supermarket. The vending channel is a very highly profitable important channel. Our bottlers willingness to continue to invest will drive further growth in that channel is our belief.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So it sounds as though your levels of incremental investment the past couple of years you feel like you have normalized the margins there and we should see a more normalized growth rate going forward? Is that the way to look at it?   

MUHTAR KENT: As I said we are stabilize the business and look for a more normalized growth rate in Japan going forward. We belief also we have strengthened our brands in all of the categories. Sparkling notably in 2007 was a key category that has grown particularly in Trademark  Coca-Cola. Very pleasing, double-digit growth, the highest in 30 years, tea category is also growing and very healthy in term of brands as well as and as I have mentioned we have had a growth in Georgia coffee in the fourth quarter of 2007.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks.   

MUHTAR KENT: Uh-huh.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Carlos Laboy with  Credit Suisse.

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: You now have a growing collection of these noncash JVs building around the world. Do you see more of these in the future and could you speak to maybe some of the benefits and challenges of these arrangements and how it might affect your bottling relationships?   

MUHTAR KENT: First, Carlos, good morning. Let me say our, we are very pleased at where our bottling relationships are in terms of how we are aligned, planning together in joint force and how we see the future and the picture of success jointly together. The clear, it is a very simple reason why we have these JVs because we believe that the category that we have these JVs in are better suit today be run through these JVs like we now have in Latin America for our juice acquisition and in Europe and it is basically creates a focus, it creates a scale and it creates the economics that deals properly with the categories and allows the bottling partners and us to focus on how we build that business together.   

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Farkas with  Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Gary had a question for you regarding your buy back plans of 2008 you have indicated similar levels in '08 to '07 which was under my impression pulled back based on our acquisition of glaceau, can you help us understand given your cash flows can allow a larger buy back, what's going into that consideration? I understand CCE has planned a buy back, perhaps other considerations there can you help us understand why that level is where it is for '08?   

GARY FAYARD: Sure. At least I will try. Let me two through that. As you look at the credit markets and volatility there, and with some modest increase of debt levels, we think it is prudent at this point to be some what conservative in financial policies therefore with what we are looking at as well as maintaining credit ratings for the system we think 1.5 to 2 million is a pretty good place to start the year. I think then it is important as we go through the year to update you on that. The share repurchase that was announced by CCE yesterday is also very modest dealing with trying to keep the share count kind of flat. So a pretty modest share repurchase program. I would say, I would sum it probably up as we will be a little cautious because of the volatility in the markets but stay tuned and we will update you as we go through the year. But the, because the credit ratings are pretty important to us as well.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: While the CCE program is modest would you anticipate participating in that to maintain your stake?   

GARY FAYARD: No, I think T I mean that will just be arms length where they're just going into the market, I would think. Okay. Great. Just on the back of acquisition, can you tell us how glaceau contributed to your North America volumes in the quarter?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: About 2 points.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Great. Thanks, Gary.   

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.   

ANN TAYLOR: Operator, we have time for one more question.   

OPERATOR: Your last question comes from Justin Hott with  Bear Stearns.

JUSTIN HOTT, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks. On glaceau, CCE yesterday mentioned they might have been a little slower in promotional el ac in the fourth quarter due to I guess the transition there. Would it be fair to say, glaceau can accelerate the great growth and some comments on where you stand with some of them around the world, your plans there. Thanks.   

MUHTAR KENT: This is Muhtar, just was the last question on [COVOS?]   

JUSTIN HOTT: Yes.   

MUHTAR KENT: Okay. Just let me give you the answer on glaceau, it was related to the transaction, and it is back on a normalized sequence now in terms of our promotional el calendar and what you see is that we've had very good progressive increases as we have transitioned the distribution bottle distribution into our bottlers and increase in the market for distribution as well as convenience stores for minute water, smart water as well as vitamin energy. So all components are work well as we move into normalized fashion. As far as the concerned, as we said to you before, we will continue to look at opportunities in our ownerships and where we see some opportunities, we will and we have heard Neville mention our hospital ward and we are very happy with the performance of the big group but overtime you will see us taking some more on board and divesting some.   

JUSTIN HOTT: Thanks.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Thank you, Muhtar and Gary, just to wrap up, and also thanks to each one of you for joining us this this morning. Now, we are in 2008 and it is the next step on your journey. I am confident that we have laid a solid foundation on which to build in 2008. And we remain, I assure you resolute about delivery against our strategic agenda this year as we did in .37. We will continue to leverage our leading brands our global footprint and our strategic acquisitions . You will see us building on invasion pipeline which we didn't talk a lot about while driving efficiency to deliver sustainable growth and shareholder value. Thank you very much in   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the  Coca-Cola Company fourth quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080220e42d00136
  


 HD
 Q3  2007 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,237 words
   PD
17 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the  Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact  Coca Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.   

I would like to now introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.   

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, VP & DIRECTOR IR,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I am joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.   

Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.   

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company website at the cocacolacompany.com under the financial information tab in the investor section which reconcile our reports as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principals to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning. And from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.   

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN & CEO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning everyone. I will start this morning with just a few brief observations about the third quarter results and then Muhtar will provide details on operational performance and Gary will follow with a review of the financials.   

Today we report another quarter of solid business results. The strength of our brand portfolio, the breadth of our global system and the culture of winning increasingly exhibited by our talented people right across the Company and the system continue to drive our business forward. The investments that we have made in our brands, our early and continued focus on revitalizing the culture through our manifesto for growth, and our commitment, together with our bottling partners, to re-energize our marketing and improve operational execution are all working. They're driving high quality, balanced growth in volume, revenues, profits, and cash flow.   

This is the third consecutive quarter in which we have achieved 6% global unit case growth. Notably this is our tenth consecutive quarter of delivering at least 4% volume growth. And top-line growth continues to be robust, reflecting our ability to capture the highest value opportunities across the whole non-alcoholic Ready-To-Drink industry. Revenues increased 19% in the quarter. Now the acquisition of bottlers contributed about eight points of this growth, so even excluding this impact revenues grew a very strong 11%, demonstrating the success of the continued system-wide focus on revenue growth management and segmented execution strategies.   

We delivered our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable EPS growth, up 15% versus the prior year. Ongoing operating income for the quarter increased 12% and year-to-date increased 13%. Cash from operations for the quarter increased 18% on solid underlying business performance.   

Importantly, our focus on productivity is resulting in operating expense leverage for our core business. Our effective management of commodity cost pressures is also reflected in the results. Our international operations again led the way, posting unit case volume growth of 8%, and once again driving strong top-line performance. And the growth continues to be sourced from both developed and emerging markets.   

All international operating groups, with the exception of the European Union, which as anticipated had a challenging prior year quarter this cycle, delivered strong growth. We're also on track with our plans for North America, which recorded sequential volume improvement. In North America, I would like to highlight the continued execution of our three cola strategy. In particular,  Coca-Cola Zero, and also our ability to drive our still portfolio, which now of course includes Glaceau.   

In terms of our global portfolio performance, we achieved continued volume growth in sparkling beverages, while expanding our footprint and enhancing our offerings in still beverages. Today we're reporting an increase of 4% in sparkling beverages. And within sparkling, continued emphasis on our three cola strategy resulted in 4% global growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola. Coke Zero, now launched in 51 countries, continues to drive the expansion of the sparkling category and gain share. Given the strong repeat rates for  Coca-Cola Zero, we're focused on driving trial by a sampling programs to continue to recruit new consumers and retain core  Coca-Cola drinkers with real  Coca-Cola taste and zero sugar and calories. In still beverages, globally strong performance from our water portfolio but also from POWERade and Minute Maid led to a 14% increase. This solid growth across the portfolio resulted in our gaining non-alcoholic Ready-To-Drink volume and value share globally, driven by share increases in sparkling and still beverages, both internationally and importantly in North America.   

I would note that value share is growing faster than volume share, as we focused on the highest value opportunities. Overall, therefore, I am very pleased with the strong performance in the quarter and year-to-date. As we enter the final quarter of the year, we will continue to leverage our leading brands, our global footprint, and our strategic acquisitions. We'll build our innovation pipeline and all the while driving productivity to continue to deliver sustainable growth and shareholder value. Now let me turn the call over to Muhtar to provide the details. Muhtar.   

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT & COO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville, and good morning everyone. Overall, this was another strong quarter for the  Coca-Cola Company, both financially and strategically. Importantly, we continue to deliver on our commitment. We achieved balanced geographic and portfolio growth, further solidifying our foundation for sustainable long-term performance. Our international operations continue to drive results for the Company through the strength of our bottling system and the power of our brands around the world. The aggressive actions we continue to take to restore growth in North America are starting to bear fruit. Our system-wide productivity efforts are allowing us to focus on driving top-line growth and creating operating expense leverage. And finally, we continue to push the envelope with innovation in product, packaging, delivery and customer service.   

Today, I would like to share with you details on our progress this quarter and add some perspective for the remainder of the year. Even with a very strong third quarter of 2006 to cycle in Europe, our international operations increased unit place volume by 8% for the quarter, following our 9% growth in the first half of the year. Broad-based growth across each of our international operating groups has enabled year to date volume growth of 6%. This speaks to the power of our global reach and the execution capabilities of our bottling partners.   

Volume growth in our international operations was once again led by the emerging markets. We achieved double-digit growth in such markets as China, Russia, India, Brazil, Turkey, the Philippines, Pakistan, Eastern Europe and southern Eurasia. Africa also experienced solid growth across all business units. And additionally we experienced robust growth across Latin America. Mexico delivered 7% growth in the quarter, a particularly strong performance reflecting the success of our strategies to drive growth in sparkling beverages led by Trademark  Coca-Cola.

While it is clear that we're maintaining our focus and winning internationally, there are a few key markets that I would like to highlight where best practice sharing is leading to world class execution. In China, we once again achieved double-digit growth this quarter. We are aggressively and strategically investing in that infrastructure and our route to market initiatives to continuously adapt to a rapidly changing marketplace.   

Year-to-date we have activated over 120,000 outlets, placed approximately 175,000 new coolers and we surpassed the one billion cases sold benchmark earlier than any other year in our history. Sprite in China continues to perform exceptionally well, growing nearly 30% in the quarter and year-to-date. As we start the one year countdown to the Beijing summer Olympics, our focus will be on leveraging our leading brands to become a staple in the local communities and ensuring our full portfolio is readily available in every outlet.   

Let me turn now to the Philippines, where our efforts have led to improved execution and seamless integration. After two quarters of managing the bottling operations, our double-digit volume growth is ahead of our expectations. We have a first class management team in place that has a deep commitment to and understanding of the marketplace. We are investing in the market there, adding 2,000 additional front end sales force associates, while driving supply chain efficiency.   

Next, in India, strong double-digit volume growth reflects the benefits of the initiatives we put in place in 2006 to rebuild the fundamentals of the franchise. Our marketing initiatives continue to gain traction supported by improvements and investments made in the bottling operations, including a specific focus on the right route to market supply chain and people capability.   

As a result, we recorded share gains in the quarter for both sparkling beverages led by Trademark  Coca-Cola, as well as still beverages led by our juice brands. Russia is another example of how we're working with our bottling partner to invest in a market with tremendous opportunity and growth potential. The Multon juice business, including the leading Dobriy brand, continues to provide a solid platform for growth in our still beverages. Also during the quarter, our bottler demonstrated a commitment to this market by expanding capacity with the acquisition of a brand new plant.   

Japan delivered another solid performance in the quarter. The team there is effectively executing our strategy of leveraging our core brands, particularly Trademark  Coca-Cola, to drive progress. Overall in the quarter, we gained share in non-alcoholic Ready-To-Drink beverages, a validation that our strategy is working.   

In the quarter, we delivered more than 4% increase in unit case volume, our fourth consecutive quarter of growth, with August and September achieving record breaking sales levels. Performance driven by Trademark  Coca-Cola with year-to-date volume growth at its highest growth rate in 30 years.   

From a marketing perspective the Coke Side of Life campaign and promotion behind Coke Zero are having measurable success. Year-to-date, we have attracted nearly five million new drinkers to the Trademark versus the prior year. We also leveraged our successful work that we have underway in Europe linking Coke and iTunes by launching a similar program in Japan that utilizes all brands and packages.   

Our still beverage portfolio in Japan grew in the quarter as well. Sokenbicha tea, Aquarius sports drink and both of our water brands drove the results with each gaining share.   

Whilst the favorable warm weather benefited most areas of our business, it did have an adverse effect on the coffee category. Results for Georgia coffee in the quarter were disappointing as gains in the recently introduced Vintage label did not fully offset declines in other flavors. We remain focused on driving growth in the coffee category through innovation, new promotions and continued marketing investments behind the brand.   

We have gained significant traction in Japan and it is reflected in the year-to-date results. But we do recognize we still have more work to do.   

As expected, the European Union faced difficult 2006 comparables that had benefited from World Cup activation and acquisition. In the current quarter, solid unit case volume growth in central and southern Europe was offset by a volume decline in Western Europe, resulting from unfavorable summer weather across Western Europe and the difficult cycling. I am satisfied that we have the right strategies in place and the initiatives taken by the EU leadership team over the last two years have built a solid foundation for balanced, sustainable, long-term growth in Europe.   

Year-to-date, volumes in the EU have increased 4%. For the third quarter after removing the impact of acquisitions, the two-year compound organic growth rate is 2%. The performance of both our sparkling beverages and the ongoing expansion of our still footprint are two strong indicators of the improvements we have made. Additionally, as a result of our successful programs, we've outperformed the industry in the quarter and year-to-date across the EU.   

We have made broad improvements in sparkling beverages through innovation and targeted execution led by the implementation of our three cola strategy and the success of Coke Zero. The roll-out strategy has delivered year-to-date Trademark  Coca-Cola growth of 3% and Coke Zero, which is now available in Europe in 20 countries, has become approximately a three share brand across the EU and has achieved as high as an eight share in markets like Denmark and Greece. That is a direct result of the close alignments we have with our bottling partners as we execute this key strategy.   

Additionally, we are driving expansion of our still platform across Europe, both organically and through acquisitions. Minute Maid, along with Nestea, Aquarius, POWERade and Burn, all achieved growth year-to-date driving still category share gain. In Germany, we had a particularly challenging quarter this cycle as we achieved volume growth of 15% in the third quarter of 2006. While volume was down in Germany for the quarter, during the year we've been able to stabilize share performance and we continue to make progress in executing our plans for long-term growth. We also continue to improve channel penetration as we broaden our offerings to discounters, enhancing our position in a growing channel where we have historically been under-represented. And also during the quarter, we finalized an agreement to consolidate the German bottlers. Our focus has now turned to improving our speed and flexibility with our customers and over time driving supply chain efficiency.   

Overall, I'm very pleased with the performance of our international operation and our operators continue to deliver high quality, broad-based growth while maintaining investments to solidify the foundation for sustainable growth in the future. Let me now discuss the progress we're making in North America. In the quarter, we achieved 1% unit case volume growth, the first quarter of growth in five quarters. While this reflects the benefit of acquisitions and an improved trend in sparkling beverages, we are not satisfied with our performance. However, I am confident that our North America system is executing against the right priorities and is fully committed to restoring sustainable growth in our home market.   

We continue to focus on revitalizing the sparkling beverage category with our three cola strategy, Red, Black and Silver.  Coca-Cola Zero, which achieved a 1.3 share in the quarter, delivered strong double-digit unit case volume growth. And along with Diet Coke, drove sparkling category share gains in the quarter. We believe there is still significant opportunity for increased awareness and penetration for Coke Zero.   

Building on our success in Asia and Latin America, we introduced the new contour grip bottle in the U.S. for all three cola brands. While only launched in early September, we have already achieved approximately 75% availability. The new bottle not only allows us to further leverage our iconic image, but the package also contains 5% less weight than the prior 20-ounce bottle, reducing our carbon footprint and manufacturing cost. This is just the first of many exciting package innovations that we'll be pilot testing in different North America markets over the coming months.   

The Glaceau acquisition continues to perform ahead of our expectations as we have been able to leverage the strength of the system while maintaining the culture and innovation capabilities of the Glaceau team. In the quarter, brand growth continued to accelerate driven by both sales velocity and increased availability. We expect Glaceau to continue to be a catalyst for driving growth across the entire North American business.   

Last quarter I mentioned that we were working with our bottlers and distribution partners to develop a hybrid operating model that would take advantage of the strength of the system and leverage existing routes to market. As we announced during the quarter, I am pleased to report that we have finalized an agreement with nearly 100% of our U.S. bottlers of this front. This is real progress and speaks to the effective alignment with our North America bottling partners. We believe the new operating model will benefit our system, will bring value to our customers and will deliver attractive returns to our share owners. During the fourth quarter, we will be working to ensure seamless transition to this new operating model. Additionally, as part of the agreement, we gained brand alignment for the next three years and agreed on our 2008 business plan priority.   

Overall, we remain relentlessly committed to our goal of re-energizing our business in North America and becoming the preferred beverage partner for our customers. In the fourth quarter we will continue to expect sequential improvement as further evidence of our progress as we execute against our key priorities.   

Finally, I would like to discuss some of the initial progress we have made in driving productivity to improve margin performance. Our objective is simple, improve our speed of execution and drive operating expense leverage. When we organize around our three pillars, namely consumer marketing, customer leadership and franchise leadership, not only do we drive our top-line growth, but we improve efficiencies as well.   

After successfully delayering our international operations during the first half of the year, we transitioned the process to North America. Central to the new operating framework in North America is the creation of three business units, sparkling beverages, still beverages and the emerging brands, along with Glaceau, to support our consumer leadership pillar. The new model defines roles in the organization and allows for greater clarity and accountability for our priority. As a result, we will be better equipped as a total organization and as individual managers to win the marketplace and to claim leadership with consumers, customers and bottlers.   

In terms of the supply chain, we have made several initial steps across the organization. As I mentioned earlier, as part of our restructuring in the Philippines bottling operations, we're investing to grow our front end sales force by more than 2,000 people as we take costs out of our supply chain to fund additional customer facing roles. Additionally we announced initiatives to drive productivity in our Irish concentrated operations resulting in our plan to close one of our concentrate plants. By executing lean productivity initiatives, we were able to increase the capacity of our remaining two concentrate plants and remove the cost associated with the third plant.   

Efforts are under way to drive cost savings through ingredient and packaging harmonization, along with projects to optimize processes for the most efficient production of our product. Ultimately, we are building a productivity based culture where employees feel engaged in the process. We're changing behavior across the system and making productivity a core part of the way we approach our business every single day. As we reinvigorate the organization and realize the productivity gains, we will selectively reinvest behind our three pillars to drive further top-line growth.   

In summary, I am very pleased with these results which validate the progress we're making against our strategic agenda. The consistent, balanced results we're achieving are a culmination of the entire system working together seamlessly, which has been a key focus for us and is essential to our long-term success. The foundation for sustainable growth is built and I'm confident that we will continue to deliver on our promises and create long-term value for our share owners.   

Now let me turn the call over to Gary. Thank you.   

GARY FAYARD, CFO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar and good morning, everyone. As Neville and Muhtar indicated, we delivered another quarter of strong financial results. As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.71 on a diluted basis for the third quarter, an increase of 15%. This included a net charge of $0.03 per share, primarily related to restructuring charges, which was offset by a $0.03 per share gain, primarily related to the sale of a portion of our investment in  Coca-Cola Amatil.

Therefore, after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year, adjusted EPS for the quarter and year-to-date increased 15%. In addition, we lowered our expected underlying effective tax rate on operations for 2007 to 22% from the previous estimate of 22.5%. To bring the effective tax rate for the year in line with the current estimate, we recorded income tax expense at a rate of approximately 21.7% in the third quarter, which resulted in a tax benefit of $0.01 for the quarter. For 2008 we expect the underlying effective tax rate to be between 22% and 22.5%.   

Net revenue in the quarter increased 19%, which included an 8% benefit from structural changes related to our acquisition of bottlers. Excluding the impact of these bottler acquisitions revenue growth was 11%, driven by 6% increase in concentrate sales, a 1% benefit from price mix and a 4% increase from currency. Price mix benefit on the core concentrate business was positive in the low single digits. However, this was partially offset by bottling investments primarily due to the volume decline in Germany. We grew operating income by 10% on a recorded basis. After considering factors impacting comparability in the current and prior years, operating income increased 12%, which includes a 3% benefit from currency. So on an ongoing currency neutral basis we grew operating income 9%.   

SG&A increased 16% in the quarter, so let me take a minute to walk you through the increase. About 12 points of the increase were due to currency bottler acquisitions and increased selling and service expenses in our consolidated bottling operations and behind acquired brands as we invested for growth. The remaining four points reflect continued solid investment behind our brands, and similar to our year-to-date results, G&A expenses increased low single digits, reflecting the early results of our productivity initiatives and disciplined expense management.   

So while the quarter's reported operating margins are 23.8%, this includes a significant impact due to the lower margin bottling operations, including the recent bottler acquisitions. Underlying margins on the core business remain healthy as we drive top-line growth and deliver operating expense leverage.   

We repurchased $1.6 billion of our stock year-to-date and we still expect to repurchase a total of $1.75 billion to $2 billion for the full year 2007. Cash from operations year-to-date increased 18% on strong underlying business performance and a decrease in working capital primarily as a result of cycling the higher net taxes paid in 2006 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings from 2005.   

Now let me address some of the factors that we see impacting the remainder of 2007. We recognize that there is some uncertainty as it relates to the U.S. economy. However, as Muhtar said, we remain committed to restoring growth in our home market. We continue to expect sequential improvement in our North America performance as we finish out 2007. We also remain positive on the global macroeconomic outlook, especially in many of our emerging markets. We will continue to manage our country portfolio as we expect solid performance in most of our markets. We feel confident in our progress and have built a solid foundation, strategically, operationally and financially as we finish out the year.   

Given the recent focus on commodity cost, I would like to provide you with some insight into our point of view. In 2007 we have seen headwinds across several key input costs. Globally we have seen significant increases in orange juice cost, which we have effectively managed. The result has been year-to-date mid-single digit unit case volume growth in our juice and juice drink brands, while driving volume and value share globally.   

The other significant commodity cost increases in 2007 have been in corn sweetener and aluminum, which was primarily impacting the North America bottling system and has been reflected in retail pricing. However, we are starting to see a moderation in commodity cost impacting beverage companies, both globally and in North America, and we believe the worst is behind us. While commodity cost volatility remains a risk, our current assumption is that commodity costs overall for the system in 2008 will be essentially flat with 2007. And for the Company we expect commodity cost to be flat to down slightly versus 2007.   

From a capital expenditure standpoint, as we stated last quarter, we expect total Company net capital expenditures for this year to be in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion as we make investments in recently acquired bottling operations.   

Now let me move to currency. As I mentioned, we saw a positive impact from currencies for the quarter on operating income of 3%. Benefits from the Euro, Brazil Real and Sterling are being partially offset by weakness in the yen. We are effectively covered for the full year on the yen and the Euro. Based on current spot rates and the expected impact of the coverage in place, we expect a mid-single digit favorable impact of currency on the fourth quarter results. We're in the process of finalizing our 2008 business plan, so we'll provide our outlook for 2008 on our year-end call in February.   

That's it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning, so we can now turn it over for your questions. Operator?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). In respect of the number of individuals with questions, we request only one question per participant. Thank you. Your first question will come from the line of Christine Farkas with  Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Okay, just a little bit closer. Can you quantify at all how much Glaceau infuse added in terms of basis points to your growth? And in the past, water had been a drag in terms of the larger volumes. Is that now cycling itself and no longer a factor? Thank you.   

MUHTAR KENT: Christine, good morning. This is Muhtar. Certainly we have had a very, very good solid performance with Glaceau. It added about two points overall. In terms of the bottom-line, actually, we are very pleased with the North America performance, even without Glaceau, it still had a double-digit growth in the quarter. So that's basically how I would phrase that.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: And in terms of the water?   

MUHTAR KENT: Water I think we're pretty much through the cycling. There's still a little bit of impact but nothing like in the first two quarters.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Great. Thanks a lot, Muhtar.   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, sure.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Kamil Gajrawala with  UBS. Please go ahead with your question?   

KAMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST,  UBS: I'm sorry. Hello?   

OPERATOR: Yes, sir, your line is open. Please go ahead with your question.   

KAMIL GAJRAWALA: Hi, everybody. Can you talk a little bit about productivity and if any of that will fall to the bottom-line?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, it already is because we had one point of operating leverage if you go down to the core business this quarter. And Muhtar focused on the really consistent drive that we have with regard to creating a much more effective, a much more efficient system. You are going to see that continuing and it will evidence itself obviously in operating leverage. But it will also allow us, where we selectively choose to do it, to invest behind the brands and invest in terms of overall for top-line growth. And you see that virtuous cycle actually in this quarter where we've got the operating leverage, we have reinvested behind the brands and that investment, continuing investment behind the brands drives the top-line growth. So that's the balance that we'll continue to strike and we certainly see that continuing going forward.   

KAMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of John Faucher with  JPMorgan. Please go ahead with your question.   

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes. You talked about the flattish commodity cost as we head into 2008. And so I guess the question is how does that impact your feeling on concentrate pricing, given the fact that particularly with CC you took less net concentrate pricing in 2007 because of the commodity environment?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, John, we're still obviously in our budget cycle and we haven't finalized that at this point in time. So it's premature to speculate on that. However, I would go back to a broader statements that I've made in the past, and that is that we will be increasing concentrate around about inflation or slightly less. And also reflecting on the fact that as you look at the health of the overall bottling system and the recalibration that we have had to do really over the last seven, eight years, that we now have a very healthy system so a more normal situation will prevail into the future. But it is too early for me to give you any real guidance on that for '08.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bonnie Herzog with  Citigroup. Please go ahead with your question.   

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: -- the unit case volume growth that you've reported this quarter since your total worldwide volume growth you mentioned was up 6% and that was certainly led by the international unit case volume growth which was up 8%, I believe you mentioned North America was up 1%, so I'm quite frankly just simply trying to do the math and understand how that works or where do I exclude the acquisition?   

MUHTAR KENT: We may have missed just the beginning of your question, Bonnie, because it didn't come out -- there was interruption in the line. This is Muhtar.   

BONNIE HERZOG: Good morning.   

MUHTAR KENT: I'll try and -- tell me if I haven't answered it properly. Internationally, as you said, we've grown 8% and in terms of both international as well as U.S. volume we're increasing still beverages double digits, in both international as well as in our North American operations. And overall international we've grown 8% and in the U.S. we've grown overall 1%, that generates the average of 6% globally in the quarter.   

BONNIE HERZOG: I think you may have answered it. You're right, I just was trying to make sure I understood the math correctly, Muhtar, because what you just stated, worldwide is up 6%, international is up 8% and North America is up 1%. So I'm just --   

MUHTAR KENT: That's right. And in both operations we've increased still beverages double-digit growth in both international and North America.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bonnie, just to the other part of your question is how much of that is acquisition.   

BONNIE HERZOG: Yes.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: It's actually 1% on a global basis and 2% for North America. So the underlying --   

BONNIE HERZOG: That helps. Okay.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Underlying North America we minus 1, this is what you're looking for I think. I guess the plus 1% and global would be -- is plus 6% and plus 5% if you exclude acquisitions.   

BONNIE HERZOG: Neville, that helps. That's exactly what I was looking for. I appreciate it, thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bill Pecoriello with  Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning, everybody. On North America, as you're looking out to '08, do you see most of the focus on the integration and continuing the momentum behind Glaceau, which is going to be a big undertaking for the system, or do you also see a strong innovation pipeline and efforts to improve the core sparkling business? You had had mentioned in the past leveraging Glaceau benefits to re-energize the core and you briefly mentioned some package innovation in your prepared comments.   

MUHTAR KENT: Bill, this is Muhtar. Certainly Glaceau is going to be a very important catalyst for sustainable growth in North America and really this new agreement is really a milestone with our bottling partners, almost unanimous agreement with our bottling partners going forward, which is completely in line with our three key goals, which is leading growth in sparkling beverages led by Trademark  Coca-Cola, delivering our fastest volume growth in the still portfolio for North American, being the preferred partner for our customers. What this agreement has done is aligned our 2008 business plan agreement and it's given us agreement on brand alignment, very importantly, for the next three years and it's also had very important impact on capability assessments going forward for reinvestment into our total business in the United States.   

Now, having said that, our key focus is still to stabilize and regenerate growth in sparkling beverages and you'll see us innovating both from a package point of view and our three cola strategy is really working well, driving growth in the diet category and sparkling beverages and we will continue to focus on that and we will also certainly be coming out with a lot of innovation in packaging and in also sales equipment as we move forward and a key focus on the point of sale going forward in the United States with our bottling partners where we're fully aligned for quarter four onwards.   

GARY FAYARD: One other thing I would add, Bill, that I think gives us a lot of confidence in our statements around sequential improvement and winning in our home market is we have talked about in the past that we've been doing some tests around segmented execution and really ramping up those capabilities and one of those is in Philadelphia. We've seen the results of that coming through this year and in fact in the quarter Philadelphia was positive in volume terms in sparkling. We know what we can do and have great confidence that the entire bottler system can now execute behind what we're seeing and really continue to improve our North America business.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Great. So on that you plan to take the learnings from Philadelphia and extrapolate that out to the balance of the system?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes, we certainly do. We have many plans around leveraging the best practice out of markets like Philadelphia as well as some other markets and drive that through across the system with a key focus, as I said, on execution at the point of sale and driving packaging innovation at the point of sale.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Just to give you the example of the grip bottle, which has been a really important addition to our packing portfolio in the United States, it's already in 50 international markets and it's driving results for both -- across Trademark  Coca-Cola in all the markets that it's been introduced and it's achieved about 75% availability already.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Your next question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with  Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: You step back and look at the volume that this company has been producing compared to what it might produce over the next year or so, if you take a mathematical view you could just say the compares are getting tougher. If you take a qualitative view, you could say the momentum really picking up here. What in your mind, if you had to rank the key drivers of no material slowdown and unit volume growth where we assuming you're managing the mix as well as you have been, what in your mind ranks at the top here?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Mark, I would actually say consistency, execution and partnership with the global bottlers. And you know from day one I have talked about executing for the long-term and that that then builds a momentum of its own. I also have said that don't judge us quarter by quarter, judge us over a period of time, because we will certainly have difficult quarters. That happens.   

Now, cycling the summer of '06 in Europe, we managed to be able to do that because of the strength of the rest of our portfolio. You may recall that that didn't occur when there was a very bad summer in Europe in '04, cycling a very strong summer in '03. So I think that underscores the fact that we have momentum and that that momentum is going to continue. And it -- it is broad-based. It is based on sparkling and the complete reinvigoration that we have of the sparkling category.   

Muhtar has outlined where we are with regard to that in North America. And how he feels that that will certainly be a recovery and we will have an absence of the headwinds with regard to the cost pressures that we experienced in '07 and '08 as well. So I would really use the words consistency and continuing execution, execution, execution. In a way, it's steady as she goes. There is nothing new we are going to say about a new initiative, it's all of the key drivers of growth that we're going to continue to execute much better as we go forward and I think you see that happening with this management team as it's come together very successfully.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And one quick follow-up, Neville. Coke Zero, you've got a level of detail globally we don't have. Kind of the same question. Obviously it's been an important contributor to growth but there's real kind of buy-in at the consumer level there. How do you think about that brand as either a risk in terms of lapping or really continuing to act as a driver of growth?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: I'll give you a headline and let Muhtar give you some granularity. Every piece of evidence we have is that that growth continues as we lap very successful launches. Muhtar?   

MUHTAR KENT: We're now in more than 50 countries. By the end of the year it will be close to 60 in terms of launches. Everywhere, whether broad-based, Asia, Latin America, Eurasia, Europe and North America, everywhere the brand is performing tremendously well, high-double digits. But I'll give you one piece of statistic that may help you. If you take the total global Diet  Coca-Cola and  Coca-Cola Zero volume, we have a double-digit growth versus prior year. So that's I think -- because the important thing is that in most, in almost all markets  Coca-Cola Zero drives substantial amount of incremental volume.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thank you.   

MUHTAR KENT: Of course there is some cannibalization. But if you take the two in terms of  Coca-Cola Zero as well as Diet  Coca-Cola and add the two together versus prior year, right now we have double digits and very high repeat and high velocity in all markets. So we expect this momentum to continue going forward in terms of -- and you can see that from our business where we're lapping, there's still tremendous velocity in the brand and horizontal expansion taking place. That also is true for North America. We see tremendous potential right here in North America for further expansion of the brand.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: So it sounds like even the oldest market you're seeing that double-digit relationship?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Excellent. Thank you, gentlemen.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Lauren Torres with  HSBC. Please go ahead, Lauren.   

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST,  HSBC: (Technical Difficulty) Solid results this quarter from some of your previously troubled markets. I guess that would be Japan, India and the Philippines. Outside of just cycling easier comps, can you talk about what's fundamentally changed in each of these markets. I know, Muhtar, you talked about it in your prepared remarks. Why should we expect some of this positive momentum to continue?   

MUHTAR KENT: Well, first as a focus, the important thing is that we have now out of our top 22 markets, 19 of them are growing and growing with an increased momentum. That's the key. And we certainly have had, as you put, issues around four large markets last year. Those were Japan, India, certainly Philippines, Nigeria and all of those are showing positive growth right now. Now, as I said, out of the top 22 markets 19, there's still three of them that are not performing. And there will always be some in our portfolio across 200 markets that need fixing. I can assure you that we focus on those religiously and with intensity and we fix them.   

You see all those four markets today that were not performing that I mentioned to you now growing. I think the key here is -- and we're certainly -- all of them had different issues. We had indicated a plan to restore -- to stabilize Japan. I think we have stabilized Japan now. From here on we will continue to execute in Japan and it is a very high per capita market and we will return to traditional growth rates in Japan. In the case of Philippines, in the case of India, in the case of Nigeria, they're emerging markets which we'll continue to drive our volume and gain share in those markets.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me just add one other thing which I think is important, because it comes from the whole strategy of the formation of the bottler investment group. We now have very skilled bottling professionals within the company and you see that in the results in India and the Philippines, where we are able to go into those sort of markets and very aggressively, particularly with the Philippines, turn around in a very short period of time.   

Now, we have bottlers who are able to do that with markets as well. But the strategic point is that what that does is it means that we take a systemic view. We are able to think about the whole value chain, we're doing that of course obviously when it comes to productivity as well. But we've got executives who now not only think about a concentrate side at the exclusion of the bottling side or vice versa. We now have a total systemic view. And when you're able to do that and link that together effectively, that's when you get the execution and that's when you get the results.   

So that move has given us the intellectual capital within the business to be able to execute the way we are doing and to be able to execute rapidly.   

LAUREN TORRES: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Your next question will come from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.   

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Just wanted to ask a question about productivity and I guess the potential to start thinking about increasing the co-mingling of beer and soft drink distribution in some markets. If my memory is correct, this has been sort of a platform that's been in and out of favor at Coke over the years. But it appears like there's a few markets where that is effective right now and I would like to get an update on your current thinking, if it's changed at all as to whether or not that's a viable option in terms of creating some leverage in some markets around the world.   

MUHTAR KENT: Bryan, let me just firstly just say that we -- our strategy and efforts around productivity are to ensure that we have a realigned organization that can make decisions with speed, that we can drive value in key spend areas across our organization on our system, build the foundation for sustainable growth going forward in key processes and then of course the culture piece.   

In some exceptional situations, there may be distribution and there may be synergies in the back office. But clearly, we are focused to ensure that we have exclusive management of the market development at the point of sale across the world and this is critical for us. Developing outlet by outlet, impulse creation across the world and that requires an exclusive focus. So our thinking is very clear.   

Where there may be some opportunities on exceptional basis, I think the bottlers -- the bottling system finds those. It's not a strategy that we look to develop across the world from here and certainly our strategy on productivity is those that I've outlined to you.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Great, thank you.   

OPERATOR: This morning's final question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with  Stifel Nicolaus. Please go ahead, Mark.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thanks again. Muhtar, quick question on Glaceau North America. Any difference in the contract, the distribution contracts you have with CCE versus other Coke bottlers?   

MUHTAR KENT: No, essentially we have, as I said, an agreement, really I would call it an historical agreement, almost unanimous participation by all our bottlers that essentially focuses on the areas that I've already outlined before. And it is the same as distributors.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: It's the same across distributors?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thank you.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay. Thank you very much indeed everyone. Thanks Muhtar and Gary. Just to conclude, it's good to be with you again this morning. I just want to reflect on the fact that for decades the  Coca-Cola company, we've stood for positivity, we've stood for happiness. One of the things I feel as I walk around the corridors, the hall Atlanta and also in our field locations, because we all spend a lot of time out there around the globe, is that our employees are engaged and, just as importantly, they're having fun again. So I'm confident that our strategies are working. And we remain resolute about delivering against our strategic agenda in order to continue to create sustainable growth and value for our shareholders. Thank you very much indeed.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the  Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071024e3ah000jl
  


 HD
 Q2  2007 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,775 words
   PD
17 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator.   

At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to  The Coca-Cola Company's second quarter 2007 earnings results conference call.   

   TD
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person.   

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and, therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact  Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.   

I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.   

ANN TAYLOR, VP AND DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today.   

I am pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Muhtar Kent, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.   

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.   

In addition, I would also like to note that we have posted schedules on our Company Web site at thecoca-colacompany.com under the "Financial Information" tab in the Investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our Web site for this information.   

Now let me turn the call over to Neville.   

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone.   

I'm going to start this morning with a few brief observations about the second quarter results and Muhtar will then provide details on operational achievements and Gary will then follow with an overview of the financials.   

Today we report another quarter of strong business results. We continue to gain traction on our journey to delivering sustainable growth.   

Our strong results today demonstrate our ability to meet our commitments, generating balanced, consistent performance across our global operations and our product portfolio. They also provide further evidence that our resolute focus on our manifesto for growth, including a clear agenda and disciplined operational execution, is paying dividends and moving us forward.   

For the second quarter in a row, we have achieved 6% global unit case volume growth. Importantly, this is our ninth consecutive quarter of delivering at least 4% volume growth.   

Top line growth continues to be strong, reflecting our ability to capture the opportunities in this dynamic and expanding beverage industry, and capitalizing on an overall favorable global environment. Revenues increased 19% in the quarter.   

Now the acquisition of bottlers contributed about 7 points of this growth so if you exclude this impact revenues grew a very strong 12%, reflecting the successful implementation of our brand, pack and channel strategies. We delivered our third consecutive quarter of double-digit comparable EPS growth, up 15% versus prior year and following a 14% increase in the first quarter.   

Ongoing currency neutral operating income increased 9% in the quarter and 10% year-to-date. Importantly, cash from operations increased 19% reflecting a solid underlying business performance. Also, I'm pleased that our focus on productivity is resulting in margin improvements in our core business.   

These strong results were once again led by our international operations which reported a second consecutive quarter of 9% unit case volume growth. Notably, this performance continues to be broad-based as nearly all of our top 22 markets again delivered solid growth and all international groups delivered mid single-digit growth or better.   

In terms of our portfolio, we achieved continued volume growth in sparkling beverages while expanding our footprint and enhancing our offerings in still beverages. Today, we are reporting an increase of 4% in sparkling beverages led by 3% growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola.

Coca-Cola Zero, which is now in 47 markets, continues its strong performance as we begin to cycle 2006 launches and employ our three-Cola strategy,  Coca-Cola, Diet or Light  Coca-Cola and  Coca-Cola Zero. Coke Zero continues to grow the sparkling category and gain share by sourcing approximately 50% to 85% of its volume from our competition.   

In still beverages, strong performance from our water portfolio, Powerade and Minute Maid, led to a 12% increase. This solid growth across the portfolio resulted in our improving our non-alcoholic ready to drink volume and value share trends globally, driven by volume and value share gains in both sparkling and still internationally and improvements across most categories in North America.   

Importantly, I really want to note that value share is growing faster than volume share as we continue to focus on the highest value opportunities.   

Now, before I turn the call over to Muhtar, let me just touch on North America. On our last call, we reiterated our commitment to winning again in our home market and during the quarter we took a significant step forward by acquiring glaceau, the leading marketer of active lifestyle beverages.   

Sandy Douglas and the team in North America are hard at work ensuring that this acquisition delivers significant value to our shareowners under an operating model that leverages the strengths of our system.   

As Muhtar will describe, our focus on our ongoing performance in North America will effectively complement our acquisitions. As we move through the second half of the year and continue to execute against our key goals, we do expect to begin seeing sequential improvement in North America which will demonstrate greater balance growth by group.   

I'm very pleased with the strong performance in the quarter and the year-to-date, and clearly, we're starting to see a trend of balance consistency in our results, and we remain undeterred in our execution of our strategic agenda as we take our manifesto into action.   

Let me now turn the call over to Muhtar to provide you with some more details. Muhtar?   

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT, COO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville, and good morning to everyone.   

Today, I'd like to provide you with an update on our progress as it relates to the quarter's performance and add some perspective for the remainder of the year. I'd like to do so within the framework of the four priorities that I had outlined last quarter for myself -- Sustain and driving momentum in our international business; two, stabilize North America and return it to growth; third, increase productivity across organization and drive leverage on our P&L; and lastly, compress and accelerate the commercialization rate of our innovation and best practice sharing across the world.   

Let me say first overall, I am very pleased with the results of the quarter and in particular how our field operators are executing our plans with specific focus around core capabilities. Last month, we spent a week meeting with all our operators around the world discussing our agenda for the next three years.   

While we agreed that we have a lot of work to do, I was extremely encouraged with the thought process coming out of these meetings. This quarter, like the last one, shows the renewed confidence and commitment to delivering results today but also ensuring a foundation is in place for achieving long-term sustainable growth.   

So let's take a few moments to review these four priorities I outlined above. It's important to remember that while we've made some progress, these priorities are ongoing and will continue to solidify the foundation for sustainable growth.   

The first priority is to sustain and drive progress in our international business. Our international operations we're maintaining our focus where we are winning and constantly making improvements in markets that are not meeting our expectations.   

Our success was evident in the quarter with volume growth at its highest level since 2000 for the second quarter in a row, validating our ability to execute across the system.   

We continue to see broad-based growth across most of our top markets. Unit case volume growth was again led by our emerging, key emerging markets including China, Russia, Turkey, Eastern Europe, Central Europe and Southern Eurasia as well as across Latin America and Africa. India continues its progress delivering double-digit growth in the quarter.   

While it's clear we're maintaining our focus and winning in these markets, I want to discuss our progress in markets where we have taken a number of actions to rebuild sustainable growth. Performance in the Philippines improved significantly as initial results are exceeding our original expectations. Our actions have led to unit case volume up 11%.   

While this growth had an easy comparison versus last year, it also is a direct reflection of a well prepared integration plan carried out by our Bottling Investment Group, however, the fundamentals of the business require continued stewardship and development. With the acquisition of the bottling operations complete, we're rebuilding key accounting and focusing on improving the route to market and execution in the trade, both of which are critical, absolutely critical to our future success.   

At this stage, our goal is to deliver slightly positive volume growth for the full-year 2007 and we're focused on restoring consistent top line growth to the business.   

The second quarter marked the 50th anniversary of our business in Japan, a critical market that has contributed significantly to our success in the past and will continue to do so in the future. With this in mind, the Company made a strategic investment in  Tokyo Coca-Cola Bottling Company which will enable us to be more actively involved in the future in the significant Tokyo market.   

The investment will be used in developing new routes to market, strengthening the vending channel and acquiring sales and distribution assets. As strategic partners, we will collaborate in tackling new initiatives in the region and will leverage the many synergies across the system in order to achieve sustainable growth.   

Unit case volume in Japan increased by 4% in the second quarter, the fourth consecutive quarter of improvement. The overall results were led by double-digit growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola.

Following the launch of the Coke Side of Life campaign earlier in the year, Japan continued to leverage global best practices and launched  Coca-Cola Zero at the beginning of June. Overall, I'm encouraged by the actions we've taken to stabilize the business in Japan, but also recognize we still have more work to do.   

In the European Union, unit case volume increased by 5% in the quarter as we continue to make steady progress and build a solid foundation for sustainable growth. Germany and Western Europe successfully cycled the 2006 World Cup and are continuing to make progress against their key initiatives.   

Whilst the fundamentals are in place, we do have a big hurdle to cycle in the third quarter with last year's results benefiting from the launch of Coke Zero in several key markets and favorable weather.   

From a portfolio perspective our strategic initiatives also continue to deliver results. Internationally, we achieved 6% organic unit case volume growth in sparkling beverages led by 6% growth in Trademark  Coca-Cola.

The Coke Side of Life campaign is being leveraged across the world and was recently awarded a Gold and Silver Lion at the Cannes Advertising Awards.   

Beyond Trademark  Coca-Cola we launched two new initiatives behind Trademark Fanta which achieved 7% volume growth in the quarter. Fanta Play is the new global marketing campaign for the brand. We expect it to reach 45 markets in 2007 and expand to over 80 next year.   

Similar to the Coke Side of Life, this campaign raises the standard for creative excellence and drives economies of scale whilst reducing production cost.   

The second initiative, which Neville highlighted at CAGNY, is the Fanta World of Flavors campaign. This exciting campaign features nine country and flavor combinations that will reach an estimated 36 markets in 2007 and will expand to over 50 next year. Again, it provides economies of scale and production and marketing and allows business units to develop a multi-year plan for Fanta flavor innovation.   

The continued success of these and our other leading sparkling beverages further validates our beliefs that the core of our business is healthy and it's poised to capture significant growth over the coming years. Additionally, we continue to improve our offerings to our customers and ultimately to our consumers via the expansion of our still beverage footprint. Internationally our unit case volume of still brands increased 20% in the quarter.   

This leads me to my second priority which is re-establishing consistent growth in our home market of North America. As you know, we made significant progress this quarter with the acquisition of glaceau.   

This was an important step in demonstrating our commitment to restoring growth in our home market. This acquisition is strategically, operationally and financially compelling as it complements every part of our business.   

It's now been about six weeks since the deal has closed and glaceau is performing ahead of our expectation. The glaceau team continues to demonstrate a commitment and passion to driving the growth of the brand. And having recently moved brand management for Powerade to this team, we're confident that it will take its growth to a higher level also.   

We remain committed to the three principles of the deal that we outlined initially. First, the deal must drive incremental value for the shareholders of  The Coca-Cola Company.

Second, while we have not finalized any specific decisions on this, we are going to build an operating model that is flexible and takes advantage of the strength of he  Coca-Cola system and leverages existing routes to market.   

The final distribution model will likely be a hybrid which will include a mix of current distributors and bottlers with certain channels handled directly. We're working with our bottlers and the existing distributors to determine the specific details for this.   

For distribution that we decide to transfer to our system, we would expect our bottlers to invest in both the glaceau brand and our core brand and business against a line of strategy that drives growth across our entire portfolio. Third, we expect the acquisition to be a catalyst for driving growth across the entire North America business.   

The same time we're moving forward with our ongoing actions in our business. In sparkling beverages, we continue to execute on our goal of leading sparkling beverage growth driven by Trademark Coke.   

Our strategy is built upon a three cola focus -- Red, Black and Silver.  Coca-Cola, Coke Zero and Diet Coke all outperformed their nearest competitors and gained share in a challenging retail environment.   

Coke Zero unit case volume grew 37%, an acceleration versus last quarter, and continues to gain share achieving over 1 share point during the quarter in Nielsen. Integrated media campaigns also continued to target the core male consumer to retain core drinkers and also act as a recruitment brand.   

Also in the quarter, Diet Coke Plus launched and achieved 97% availability in the supermarket channel. We drove awareness using multimedia approach and received point-of-sale support by some of our key customers including  Wal-Mart,  Kroger and  Safeway. In total, our sparkling beverages gained share led by our diet and light brand.   

In still beverages, for North America, we continued to make progress in our areas of focus. Trademark Powerade gained both volume and value share in the sports drinks and our chilled juice and juice drinks portfolio gained value share on the strengths of trademark Simply and Odwalla.   

In seasoned coffees our actions resulted in increases in volume and value share.   

Overall, second quarter results in North America were as expected as June case volume declined by 2%, cycling 2% growth in the prior year quarter. Of course I'm not satisfied with these results and continue to work closely with Sandy and the North America team and all of our bottlers to address these issues.   

Our actions in the quarter clearly reflect our commitment to the North America business. We understand the challenges and are actively addressing our portfolio's performance and working with our bottlers to develop a system that's geared to execute and win with our consumers, customers, partners and suppliers. In the second half of 2007, we expect to see sequential improvement and evidence of progress as we execute against our key goals.   

My third priority is productivity. Our strategy is simple. First, organize around critical capabilities that drive our top line growth. Those are consumer marketing, commercial leadership and franchise leadership.   

We've begun to delayer the organization to drive speed to market and clearly define roles that drive results. Our international operations have already been successfully realigned, reducing 80 plus fully functional offices into 42 business units. North America realignment is underway and functional operations are set to support the field operations.   

We've also initiated programmatic management of spending areas to drive effectiveness and efficiencies. We're leveraging our scale across several areas including supply chain, IT, marketing, travel, meeting policies and telecommunication just to name a few. And as we reinvigorate the organization and as we realize the productivity gains, we will selectively reinvest behind our three pillars to drive further top line growth.   

My fourth and last priority is compressing the innovation pipeline. One exciting example is our Coke Side of On the Go initiative. Our innovation here is intended to drive occasion incidents and recruit consumers with value-added and unique packaging whilst improving our revenue mix.   

The  Coca-Cola contour grip bottle has hit the marketplace with launches in China, Korea, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Turkey, amongst other countries. It will reach an additional seven countries by the end of the year.   

And in markets such as China and Korea, the package is driving growth in single serve and improving brand health scores across-the-board. In the coming months, we'll be adding other equipment and package innovations to drive On the Go consumptions such as the super chill cooler which is testing on three continents and the unique resealable cap for our [pet] offering.   

We continue to innovate in marketing also. Earlier we discussed innovation and efficiency we've developed around Trademark Fanta.   

We also launched this quarter Sprite Yard, a leading edge digital community that gives consumers access to social connection and downloadable content via their mobile phones. Initially introduced in China, you can now access it in the United States.   

We continue to drive innovation in our product portfolio. In Germany we launched Vio, a still water leveraging the Apollinaris brand equity.   

And in Turkey we launched the Damla spring water brand. In Turkey we're now completing across the range of beverage occasions with a robust portfolio brand.   

In Japan, we successfully introduced Aqua Therapy Minaqua, a line of natural mineral and flavored and functional offerings in order to increase consumption opportunities. This launch led to value share gains in the water category for the quarter.   

Also in Japan we launched Patissiolle, a premium chilled coffee in a proprietary aluminum package. We will continue to strengthen our pipeline of products and packages while maintaining a broad and deep definition organization.   

So in summary, Neville and I are both very pleased with these results, and we've made significant progress against our 2007 priority. Our strategic agenda, built on the manifesto for growth, is focused and the year-to-date performance is the proof of that.   

The third quarter is critical as we experience the heat of the summer season. Every day, each employee around the globe is tasked with winning in the marketplace and we are doing so.   

We know there will be bumps. There is much work to do but I'm really certain our work will create long-term sustainable growth and value for our share owners.   

Now let me turn the call over to Gary. Thank you.   

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning.   

As Neville and Muhtar indicated, we delivered another quarter of very strong financial results. As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.80 per share on a diluted basis for the second quarter, an increase of 3%.   

This included a net charge of $0.05 per share, approximately $0.02 was related to restructuring charges, and an additional $0.03 was related primarily to a non-cash adjustment related to  Coca-Cola Amatil's investment in their Korean bottling operations which they're in the final stages of selling.   

Our adjustment will differ from any adjustment made by  Coca-Cola Amatil due to differences in U.S. GAAP and international accounting standards but clearly, this adjustment was accounting related and in no way impacts on the value of our investment in Amatil. Therefore, our adjusted earnings per share was $0.85, an increase of 15% after considering items impacting comparability in both the current and prior year.   

In addition, we lowered our expected underlying effective tax rate on operations for 2007 and for 2008 to 22.5% from the previous estimate of 23%. To bring the effective tax rate for the year in line with the current estimate, we reported income tax expense at a rate of approximately 22.2% in the second quarter which resulted in a tax benefit of $0.01 for the quarter.   

Additionally, the quarter included a timing benefit as year-to-date concentrate sales are slightly ahead of reported unit case sales, and we would expect this benefit to reverse as we move through the second half of the year.   

Net revenue in the quarter increased 19% which included a 7% benefit from structural changes related to our acquisitions of certain bottlers. Excluding the impact of structural change, revenue growth was 12% driven by a 7% increase in concentrate sales, a 3% increase from currency, and a 2% increase from price and mix benefits.   

We grew operating income by 12% (sic -- see Press Release) on a reported basis. After considering factors impacting comparability in the current and prior year, operating income increased 12% which includes a 3% benefit from currency, so on an ongoing currency neutral basis we grew operating income 9%.   

SG&A increased 17% in the quarter so let me take a minute and walk you through the increase. About 10 points of those 17 points of the increase was due to bottler acquisitions, increased selling and service expenses in our consolidated bottling operations, and behind acquired brands as we invested for growth and as well as currency.   

For the remaining 7 points, we're cycling favorable timing of G&A expenses from the prior year and the remaining increase reflects continued solid investments behind our brands as well as controlled G&A expenses as we continue to focus on productivity and expense management. So while reported operating margins are 29.4%, they are reflecting a significant impact due to the Bottling Investment Group and bottling acquisitions.   

Underlying margins on the core business remain healthy and are improving as we drive top line growth and operating expense leverage. We repurchased approximately $1 billion of our stock year-to-date and we still expect to repurchase between $1.75 billion and $2 billion in 2007.   

As Neville said, cash from operations year-to-date increased 19% on strong underlying business performance, and a decrease in working capital primarily as a result of cycling accruals related to higher net taxes paid last year related to tax repatriation.   

Now let me address some of the factors that we see impacting the Company for the remainder of 2007. We remain relatively positive on the macroeconomic outlook for the remainder of the year, especially in many of our emerging markets. We will continue to manage our portfolio globally as we expect solid performance in most of our markets.   

While we feel confident in our progress, as Muhtar indicated, Europe does have a tough hurdle in the third quarter given the favorable weather, Coke Zero rollouts, acquisitions and the residual World Cup benefits, but we're very happy with the performance of Europe that we've seen thus far in the second quarter. Additionally, we'll have the impact of the reversal of the first half timing benefit of concentrate sales.   

As with the first half results we would, again, expect our consolidated bottling operations to be a positive contributor as we continue to build world-class operations.   

As for the acquisition of the Philippines bottler, as Muhtar noted, the quarter's results were ahead of our expectations due to solid integration planning and we now expect volume to be slightly positive for the second half, however, from a profitability standpoint, we would still expect a $0.02 per share reduction for 2007 as we invest to return the business to health and growth.   

As for items below the operating income line, I'd like to remind you that we still expect net interest costs to increase primarily due to lower cash balances and higher debt balances due to share repurchase, dividends, capital spending and acquisitions.   

As we previously disclosed, in the fourth quarter we will pay for the remaining approximately 30% of glaceau which will further increase interest expense. We still expect the transaction to be $0.01 to $0.02 dilutive earnings per share in 2007.   

From a Cap Ex standpoint, as we stated last quarter, we expect the total Company's net capital expenditures for 2007 will be about $1.6 billion as we make investments in recently acquired bottling operations.   

Now let me move to currencies. As I mentioned, we saw a positive impact from currencies for the quarter on operating income of 3%, as benefits from the euro and the pound are being partially offset by weakness in the yen. We're effectively covered for the full-year on the yen and the euro based on current spot rates and the expected impact of the coverage in place, we expect a low single-digit benefit from currency for the full-year 2007 results.   

That's it for the topics I wanted to cover, so Operator, we'll turn it over for questions.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) And our first question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with  Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & COMPANY: Thanks, Operator. Good morning, everyone.   

A couple questions, two related questions on Europe. Firstly, Gary, just I'm not sure I heard right. Did you say you're pleased with performance thus far in the current quarter or year-to-date through second quarter? And then a more fundamental question.   

GARY FAYARD: Yes, year-to-date through the second quarter.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Okay.   

GARY FAYARD: And if you look at the second quarter they had good growth and they were cycling World Cup, Coke Zero launches, had some great weather last year so Europe actually had a very good second quarter.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: And then Muhtar, or any of you really, looking out, I mean at what level is it a disappointment? And by that I mean am I correct in assuming that you guys think you're going to see a small decline in your European volumes in the second half or at least the third quarter?   

MUHTAR KENT: Firstly, as Gary said, we are pleased. All the programs that we put into place both with sparkling and still beverages are working.   

We've maintained volume and gained value in sparkling beverages in the second quarter, gained slight volume and value share in the still beverages. I think we're executing across [big bets] all around, across the whole continent in Europe. And as Gary said, also, we've cycled the World Cup.   

We now have a hurdle also in the third quarter. As you know, we've launched Coke Zero very successfully last year in some key markets, which in the third quarter which will be hurdling but that doesn't necessarily mean that we are expecting a decline.   

There's no issue in terms of us having a decline just because we are recycling some tough programs from last year. As we showed in the second quarter, we've recycled both warm weather and we've recycled the World Cup, very successful Wold Cup promotions across many, many markets in the EU.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Mark, I'd just like to add, a repeat of the comment I made, as we see the sequential growth in North America and you've seen this consistently over nine quarters, how you have to look at the balance as you get, you know, good weather one area, you get maybe a change in another. And it's balanced growth that we're talking about and we see that balance is going to continue. But I agree with all of Muhtar's comments, specifically about Europe.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. Thank you, gentlemen.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bill Pecoriello with  Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody.   

Wanted to get a little bit more detail on the productivity savings. Last quarter you had spoken about three buckets and in your comments today you mentioned that you had already begun international delayering and you were in the planning stage on North America. So if you could put any numbers behind that in terms of the savings potential and then update us on the timing and status on the other two buckets that you had been talking about last quarter. Thanks.   

MUHTAR KENT: Bill, good morning.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Hi.   

MUHTAR KENT: I think what you need to do is look at these in terms of short-term, what these efforts are intended to reduce and then really how we organize against the three pillars, both on the short-term and also the medium-term and the long-term. The alignment work across our organization initiative last fall was to bring all our resources, people, time and financial into line with our market-based strategic plans.   

We've moved the percentage of our organization facing the value creating functions of consumer marketing franchise and commercial leadership from the very low 30s to over 40%, and sharpened our focus on placing our capabilities. So it's not just around, just saving money in terms of the rearchitecture, but also around how we go to market, how we can execute and how we can also take decisions faster with more effectiveness.   

And that's, the result has been that we've also gone from fully functional 80 plus offices to 42 business units. And what that means is that, as before where all of our functions were represented in more than 80 offices, now, the three key functions are represented in those offices and then 42 business units have all the other support functions, so that's really absolutely creating effectiveness.   

And then also in the short-term supply chain, we had programs to reduce number of package variations, product formulations and region variations. And I've referred to some of those effectiveness programs around the Fanta campaign, around the Coke Side of Life campaign and, for example, our Fanta brand alone has over 150 formulas around the world so we see lots of opportunities there.   

And again, in the short-term looking at telecommunications, travel and entertainment. And then next are the medium-term Company specific initiatives that Neville and I have asked Gary and [Urial] to unlock value within our indirect cost systems and there are many work streams going around in this area.   

And lastly, more longer term system initiatives that will benefit both our bottling system as well as the Company is really looking at holistically at the $50 billion supply chain system around the world, and the bottlers, our bottlers across the world have done really an excellent job in many, many respects.   

It can be seen in the improvement in their returns and we've already experienced success in global procurement of key inputs as well as in Japan with the supply chain management company. We're using those lessons to build similar models in China, in Mexico, in other markets as we gain scale in still beverages.   

But there's still significant room for improvement across the system. There's an opportunity to leverage the common IT platform which will leverage our system and create effectiveness. With most of the system on SAP, we now must identify best modules, stand-by definitions and this really has a longer term horizon.   

So that's really what I wanted to say on the productivity initiatives is there's a number of initiatives both on the short, medium and long-term and it's too early for us to put an exact number on the savings, but as you know and as outlined, there are savings coming through.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, I just want to go very broad on this. Two years ago we were talking and taking questions on the manifesto, what did that mean, and everyone's looking for a number about how that's going to change the top line and how that's going to give us some operating leverage, et cetera.   

One of the key elements within that, everything's been sequenced. One of the key elements is this whole issue of productivity and that's now where we're focused. But as Muhtar said, too early to give you a number but, again, the emphasis is not just on what we can say, the emphasis is how we can take the bureaucracy out, how we can be much faster in terms of execution.   

I think you're seeing that. We're not where we need to be with that but what that does is drive the top line growth and that's what you are seeing. So you have to look at all of this in a very broad context and seeing all of these little pieces starting to fall into place.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Spillane with Banc of America Securities.   

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. I guess a follow-up to Bill's question.   

In thinking about the delayering, just two points I'd like to get some comments on. First, over time, Coke is a company that has gone back and fourth in terms of being very centralized and then moving to be very decentralized, so I guess do you see decision making being more decentralized at this point given where the organization structure is going?   

And then the second is in terms of your relationship with the bottlers, do you see yourself now having a more active involvement with the decisions that the bottlers are making day-to-day or will you be stepping back and will the bottlers be more active in their decision making?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Brian, first of all, in terms of whether we're centralized or decentralized, and I answered this question, I guess, two and a half years ago, and I said we want to stop the pendulum somewhere in the middle and that's exactly what we're doing, stopping the pendulum somewhere in the middle.   

But what we have done, and this doesn't take it one way or the other, is we've taken out layers that actually didn't add significant value. There were too many fingerprints on the decisions. So the focus, what Muhtar has done is he's taken the organization and the focus on execution, you hear him talking about execution is each of these individual units.   

Therefore, when you go then to the centralized services that are provided they're provided at more of a higher level and that takes cost out but also makes it more efficient. That is really a balance between centralized and decentralized, and that's where we're going to remain.   

The pendulum is not going to swing from one side to the other and I understand your concern because that tends to throw the organization into a state of flux. And I think you've seen us undertake this with actually an acceleration of growth at the same time, and that's because it's been very well managed and very deliberate in terms of the way that we've done it. Full credit to Muhtar and his group presidents in terms of how they're (inaudible) do that.   

The second piece is with regard to the bottlers. Again, we're talking about the balance in the middle. You remember the time when the view was that there was a division between what the bottler did and what the Company did and basically the bottlers would be the people who did the execution and we'd be the people that will do the strategy and the conflict would be minimized by less direct engagement.   

Equally there's been a time when we've tried to manage the bottlers, and I'm talking about the franchise bottlers, because obviously we've our own large bottling unit today, in excruciating detail. That's not the way to do it. Again, it's sort of passing on of the executional side that you see in our operations with regard to the bottling system. Again, it is somewhere in the middle.   

But clearly, we run half a business, they run half a business. If we're not sitting down around the table, deeply involved about how we put each of our programs into action and doing it in a coordinated integrated way then we won't be successful in the marketplace. And that's what you see, again, that's what you see us doing.   

MUHTAR KENT: I'd just like to add one comment on each of those areas, Bryan, and I think in terms of how we work inside the organization, if this will help you maybe think about it in more granular terms, it's like a freedom within an agreed framework.   

All of the business units and all of the groups around the world, we have worked within an agreed framework which is really a result of intense discussions but final agreement and how that's structured, and then there's freedom inside that framework and that really has created a very good operating framework for us to move fast with effectiveness, with speed in terms of how we make decisions and how we work with bottlers, and that comes to the second point.   

Franchise leadership is identified as one of the key pillars in how we work and as bottler's financials are improving, as volume is accelerating across the sparkling core category there's an increased appetite for bottlers to also invest for growth, or sustainable growth, and that really brings joint planning and the long-term approach to the business and sustainability of the growth. So I think there's no issue in terms of who takes the decisions and the decisions are really taken jointly out of an agreed plan with our bottlers.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of John Faucher with  JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Yes, good morning, everyone.   

Quick question on Glaceau. It seems as though we're seeing a ramp up on the ad spend here so a couple of quick questions in terms of it looks as though the distribution has been gaining pretty rapidly in large format stores, you still got some bigger holes there.   

Are you seeing this move to more of a marketing-based strategy and if so, where are you in terms of ramping up the investment there, what do you have built into your forecast and how does that change how you look at the overall split of system profit?   

MUHTAR KENT: Firstly, John, good morning.   

This is not really a plan that has changed in any way or form after Glaceau has been acquired. The plan to start advertising was already in place as inside the Glaceau plan and the management of Glaceau, led by Darius Bikoff had already made all the plans, had already put all of the plans together to start ramping up advertising because they believed that they were not getting the scale and they were not getting the distribution across the country, and that it would make sense for them to start some consumer marketing before because it was mainly very localized marketing up to now, up to this year.   

So that's not in any way a plan that has really been changed as a result of the acquisition, and that everything is proceeding according to the original plan. And as I said in my earlier comments, Glaceau is performing better than expectations, and distribution continues to ramp up across the country, horizontal gains and improvements in both geographic expansion, channel expansion and also the velocity is growing where the distribution exists. So I don't see any -- we just see the continued progress in that respect.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Christine Farkas with  Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much and good morning.   

I'm wondering if I can dive a little bit into North America and Latin America, specifically the top line growth at North America, can you tell us with respect to the contributions from price and mix and acquisitions and also if the slower water growth is actually helping your top line mix?   

And then in Latin America, you've talked about reinvesting there and we saw margins contract. Is this a near-term program or do you expect this kind of spend to go on for the rest of this year? Thank you.   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, Christine, as far as the North America is concerned, there hasn't been much impact from acquisitions in terms, obviously Glaceau has been really in there for about three or four weeks, three and a half weeks.   

The acquisition of Fuse was completed at the beginning of the quarter so the revenues are up mainly from also our success in the juice business. So we don't really see a very big impact from the acquisitions but there has been, of course, price mix benefits in how the pricing has gone up as a result of the increases in the raw materials, so essentially, we don't really see too much of an impact from the acquisitions inside the quarter.   

As far as Latin America is concerned, it really is, again, very, very good solid performance across the whole market and we have completed the acquisition of Matte Leao and basically, we've had very, very good mix in Latin America and expect to really continue the momentum in Latin America as you've seen in the first two quarters of this year and also across-the-board in 2006.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: And the margins in Latin America, they were off or contracted versus a year ago. Is that because of the mix of product in terms of juice versus soft drinks or there was reinvestment programs to boost the top line?   

MUHTAR KENT: I think you've seen us launch many still beverages. There's been an investment in the Coke Side of Life and also launches of Coke Zero but also, launches of still beverages across many markets, launches of enhanced water, and as you know, when you have launches of new products initially there's some investment up front, but we don't see that as any sort of dislocation on our general margin structure in Latin America at all.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. Great. Thanks a lot.   

GARY FAYARD: Christine, this is Gary. Let me go back on North America on revenue and let me just, I've got a reconciliation so let me just give it to you.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay.   

GARY FAYARD: Gallons were down one, our concentrate sales were down one, pricing was a positive two, acquisitions were a positive three, and then mix was a positive five, and that gets you to a 9% reported net revenue growth rate.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: That's very helpful.   

GARY FAYARD: Okay.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Christine, just one follow-up.   

You mentioned water, and we are with water looking at water as more of a value proposition than a volume proposition, and I think you'll see in the quarter for North America that in fact as we dialed down on DANNON water, the low margin end of it, that that effected volume negatively by almost one percentage point in North America but it has increased margins. And globally I think you'll see that as well as we start trading up with water and also as we rollout Glaceau internationally as well.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thanks a lot, Neville.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Matthew Riley with Morningstar.   

MATTHEW RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning.   

Given that you've almost doubled long-term volume growth guidance through the first half of the year, I think you said it was the highest level since 2000, should we expect a significant deceleration going forward [if] some of these costs or lapped or is the current case of growth, especially internationally, sustainable?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, the emphasis I've always had is on sustainable growth. We believe we're showing sustainable growth. At the same time, I've always said that don't judge us by one quarter, that you hit bumps along the road.   

What you're really asking, I know, in fact I want to challenge you, we haven't actually changed our model. What you're really asking is are we going to change our model overall?   

The model is something we review on an annual basis. We don't review it quarter-to-quarter and therefore, the model that we have in place that we've given to you, the growth targets, we're not going to revise them at this point in time.   

We do it annually with the Board. It's at the end of the year, and we'll do that in a normal way as we look at our three-year plan going forward, so I really got no update with regard to you on that, but I think we've got momentum and I think you're going to see that that momentum is going to continue.   

I mean, the long-term targets are not a limit on performance. Again, I've consistently said our goal is to exceed our targets. That's what high performers do and that's what we're continuing to do and that's what we're going to continue to do.   

We don't make onward projections, I'm not going to tell you to what degree that's going to happen but I wouldn't run straight arithmetic over it. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Judy Hong with  Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, everyone.   

I actually had a couple of follow-up questions on Glaceau. Firstly I recognize that you haven't come to a final determination of what the appropriate distribution model would look like, but I'm wondering if you could provide any additional color as far as how you'd think about the hybrid model, sort of the mix of current versus the Coke bottlers? And then how you think about splitting up the system profit pool that could benefit the Coke shareholders   

And then secondly, you comment about the Glaceau acquisition acting as a catalyst to drive better growth in North America. Can you just elaborate on that comment in terms of whether you envision some of your non-premium, the premium non-carb brands actually benefiting as a result of the acquisition going forward?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Judy, let me give you a headline comment and I'll hand over to Muhtar to give you a little more granularity.   

You heard in my introductory comments that I was very clear about the fact that we believe we're going to get significant returns on our Glaceau investment and that's why we bought it for the shareholders of the  Coca-Cola Company, and I think you're going to see that as we go forward.   

We're also putting a very clear structure in terms of keeping the management of Glaceau who've handled so very well in the past in place. And we emphasized that on all of the calls that we made at the time of the acquisition to the degree that we've transferred Powerade to them, and therefore, they're going to help work together with Muhtar on finding the best route to market as we go into the future. The distributors have built a business, they've done a great job and therefore, we expect a hybrid system in the future.   

How that's going to unfold, I'll let Muhtar give you a little more granularity but it's not there in complete detail. But I just want to emphasize that we had a really clear view that we were acquiring great management together with this acquisition and we're leaving that management to work with us in terms of fulfilling the goals that they have, which are obviously aligned with ours, in terms of extracting significant value for our shareowners. Muhtar?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, in fact just to take or build on from where Neville left, in fact we made the decision also to move Powerade under that management, to take advantage of the speed, the entrepreneurial spirit, the focus that that Glaceau team will bring, and of course, we are pleased with the performance of Powerade.   

But going back to distribution, I mean, we have a team in place dedicated to managing the transition into the  Coca-Cola system and the team will be focused on making sure that the essence and the culture of Glaceau is preserved while leveraging the capabilities and the strength of the  Coca-Cola system. And as I said, the final result will probably be a hybrid.   

We're discussing with current Glaceau distributors and our bottling partners there's tremendous enthusiasm from our bottling system, and basically we're continuing to work with current distributors, bottlers, to develop the right route to market channel by channel and market by market. And I think distributors have contracts in place that are offering a fair return to Glaceau and the distributor and we expect that any volume that actually, that is transferred to our bottlers will be under similar terms.   

GARY FAYARD: And let me add one thing to that as well, because the follow-up on something Muhtar said earlier, he was referring to the international business, but as part of that, it's just with the growth we're seeing in the international business, we saw the bottlers are enthusiastic, they're making more money and therefore, they're investing behind their brands and we're all benefiting from that and growing.   

What you see with Glaceau is an opportunity for our U.S. bottlers who are very excited, as Muhtar said, to be able to the extent that we transfer to take that and invest behind not only Glaceau but invest, continue to invest behind our other brands and really drive the entire portfolio of brands for the benefit of the entire system.   

JUDY HONG: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bonnie Herzog with  Citigroup.

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, everyone.   

I just actually have a big picture question for all of you and that is you certainly sound quite confident given your impressive performance over the past few quarters which is great, so as you think about it going forward, can you share with us what concerns you the most about your strategy? In other words, what do you believe are the greatest potential risks that you face?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bonnie, good question and I would say that there is nothing major that we are concerned about, but it really is to do with continuing to get faster to market, continuing to do what Muhtar mentioned about getting the innovation pipeline moving quicker, and our own, ramping up our own internal abilities as an overall system. So it's an impatience with regard to speed rather than anything that we see that's major in the external environment.   

Now, the external environment is one which will always, always deal us a bad card now and again and some of them are small. You saw the write-offs that we had to take in Zimbabwe for example. That's going to happen.   

You're going to have a quarter where the weather is bad. You're going to have a quarter where the weather is really superb, and that's all that we're signaling. Don't judge us quarter-by-quarter but look back over the last nine or 10 quarters and look at how we've been consistent and you're going to see that going forward.   

So there is nothing that I can highlight that's major that we have a large concern about, but we've got to watch and see what comes from the left or the right hand side which is totally unexpected and that will be something none of us have seen I'm sure. So that's really the answer.   

BONNIE HERZOG: All right. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.   

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Good morning.   

Your year-to-date margins in your company-owned bottling group are down slightly from last year. Do you still believe you can get these margins up to a kind of roll by modeling standard over a multi-year period?   

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Robert, it's Gary. Thanks for the question.   

We were having an internal debate before the call of whether I added this into the script or not, and Ann said no, someone surely will ask you about Bottling Investment Group margins. So let me give you a couple of data points on their margins and the answer is yes, we still have very high expectations for the Bottling Investment Group but there's a big impact within the Bottling Investment Group around Zimbabwe, and a bottler that we own in Zimbabwe, you all, everyone knows kind of the economic and political environment within that country, and we took a restructuring or an impairment charge there but we also took some charges that actually hit the P&L that is not broken out as restructuring or impairment or a non-recurring type item that are inside the P&L.   

They are one-time. It is 10 points of growth on operating income within Bottling Investments all related to Zimbabwe, all related to this quarter and this quarter only, and in fact, our investment now is zero so there's no further exposure. So I would say if you look at year-to-date results and if you look at full-year, we still have very high expectations for Bottling Investments.   

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Great. Thanks.   

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this includes the question-and-answer portion of today's call. Are there any closing remarks?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes. I'd just like to thank you for joining us this morning.   

I want to re-emphasize that we're confident that our strategies are working and as you've heard from Muhtar, the leadership is focused on the fundamentals that are going to drive our results, execution in the marketplace and an outward focus on our customers and our consumers, and of course, ongoing diligence with capital allocation.   

We remain committed to creating sustainable growth. That's a word you're going to keep hearing me say and creating incremental value for our shareowners. Thank you very much indeed.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this includes the  Coca-Cola Company's second quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070724e37h000dy
  


 HD
 Q1  2007 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,305 words
   PD
17 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the  Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Participants will be announced by their name and company name in the order they are received. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors. And therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.   

I would like to now introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.   

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR, IR,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. I'm pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Office; Muhtar Kent, our Chief Operating Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.   

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report. In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our company website at the CocaColaCompany.com in the investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principals to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our website for this information. Now, let me turn the call over to Neville.   

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann. And good morning, everyone. I'm going to start this morning with a few brief observations about the quarterly results; Muhtar will then provide details on operational achievements; and Gary will follow with an overview of the financials, and he's going to give you some additional perspective on the Philippines, as well.   

What you see today is a very strong quarter. Delivered by a company and a system that has found its footing, regained its focus, and come a long way in retooling its operations. While there is much more that we can and will do, the  Coca-Cola Company is today proving that we can meet the commitments that we make. We said that we would drive growth in profitable brands and packs and channels. And today we are reporting revenue growth of 17% on worldwide unit case volume growth of 6%. Our highest quarterly volume growth rate since 2002 while cycling 5% volume growth for the first quarter of last year. We also said that we would maximize our local brand footprint to leverage our sweet spot in the industry. And today we are reporting international growth of 9%, which is our highest quarterly international growth rate since 2000.   

We also said that we would grow our core sparkling beverages while expanding the footprint of our still portfolio. Today, we're reporting an increase of 5% in sparkling beverages led by 4% growth in trademark Coca-Cola. That growth includes the rollout of Coca-Cola Zero to 20 additional markets, including Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and France amongst others. Still beverages increased 9%. The solid growth resulted in share being gained or maintained in key nonalcoholic ready to drink categories, including sparkling, bottled water, juice and juice drinks, sports drinks, and ready to drink tea. So, for the quarter, we've delivered on our commitments.   

Now I'd like to give you a new commitment. We will win again in our home market. It will not come quickly and we continue to expect 2007 to be weak. But we do expect to begin seeing sequential improvement in the second half of the year as we execute against our key goals. Muhtar will address this topic in more detail in a moment, but I want to underscore my absolute focus on North America.   

We delivered strong financial results this quarter even with this decline in North America. Strong top line growth resulted in ongoing currency neutral operating income growth of 11%, which is ahead of our long-term growth targets. The geographic sources of profit growth were, in fact, more balanced, as well. Additionally, we delivered solid operating expense leverage, even as we continued to invest to support our brands and build capabilities within our company owned bottling operations. Certainly a strong performance to start the year. So now, let me turn the call over to our Chief Operating Officer, Muhtar Kent who will provide you with more details. Muhtar?   

MUHTAR KENT, COO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville, and good morning, everyone. It's been just over 120 days since I assumed my new role. What I'd like to cover this morning are my key priorities for 2007 and relate those to our performance in the quarter as well as expectations for the remainder of this year. These priorities are designed around a simple strategy. Continue to innovate, take smart risks, and work closely with our bottlers to drive growth in sparkling and still beverages.   

The first priority is to sustain and drive progress in our international business. Second, address the issues in North America, as Neville said, where I've been spending a great deal of time these past 4 months. Third, increase productivity across the organization and drive leverage on the P&L. And fourth and last, compress and accelerate the commercialization rate of innovation, and best practice sharing.   

Let's start with the first one, sustaining and driving progress in our international business. Our quarterly results clearly displayed the strength of our global portfolio and our ability to execute across the entire system with most of our key markets delivering solid performance. We will continue to build on these results by growing our core sparkling beverages, expanding our still offerings, and executing with precision. Unit case volume growth was again led by our key emerging markets, including China, Russia, Eastern Europe, Southern Eurasia, South Africa, and across Latin America. Also some of our emerging market weak spots the last year continued to rebound as India and Nigeria both delivered solid results in the quarter.   

In addition and equally encouraging is the strength of some of our more developed markets. One of our most consistent performers, Mexico, increased unit case volume 2%, cycling 8% in the prior year on the strength of trademark Coca-Cola driving total sparkling beverage share gain. This is the third consecutive quarter of improvement in Japan, with unit case volume up 3%. Although cycling at 2% declined from prior quarter, the performance across brand portfolio is particularly encouraging and demonstrates the changes we put in place last year and the strategy we are now pursuing there are really paying off. Solid growth in trademarks Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite, Sokenbicha Tea, and Aquarius drove the results with each gaining share.   

The European Union increased unit case volume 11%. As all operating divisions delivered midsingle digit or better growth. I am encouraged by the growth, particularly in Europe, in Germany, and Western Europe, which continue to show progress. As expected, our business in the Philippines continued to face challenges and experience declines in the quarter. However, we are taking a number of critical actions to address these issues. At the end of February, we completed the acquisition of the bottling operations in the Philippines previously held by  San Miguel Corporation. The bottler will now have full access to the expertise of our management, as well as be fully integrated with our company's overall objectives. With a robust business plan being implemented, an experienced management team in place under [Miro Finer's] leadership, a leading share position, and strong brand metrics, we believe we are well positioned to return the Philippines market to its former standing as of one of our top performers.   

During 2007, as our programs gain traction, we expect to see sequential improvement in unit case volume and to return growth -- return to growth in 2008. Gary will provide more details on the financial impact on 2007 in a moment. The success in our international operations in the first quarter directly reflects our ability to build on the progress we made in 2006. We've delivered 8% organic growth in sparkling beverages led by 7% growth in trademark Coca-Cola. This is the highest growth in trademark Coke in international operations since 1998. In fact, sparkling beverages have averaged 6% growth over the past five quarters, confirming our belief that sparkling beverages have not matured, but rather still have great potential.   

Coke Zero and our new grip bottle properly directed marketing initiatives such as the integrated activation of The Coke Side of Life, and CocaCola.com, and efforts to win at the point of sale are prime examples of how we will use innovation and our close partnership with our bottlers to develop marketing campaigns that drive growth. In addition, we continue to expand our still beverage footprint around the world. Internationally, our still brands increased 16% in the first quarter by leveraging our existing trademarks and successfully integrating our recent acquisitions to improve our offerings to customers and ultimately to consumers. For the EU group still beverages increased 36%. And even excluding acquisitions, stills increased solid high teens.   

Our juice and water platforms continue to gain strength with the expansion of products such as Minute Maid pulp into India, the pending acquisition of Jugos de Valle in Latin America, and the acquisitions of Apollinaris and [Inaudible] brands in Europe. Success requires a robust and rational portfolio. We continue to evaluate all of our options. And when necessary, we will selectively make acquisitions for additional speed, scale, as well as capability. A large competitive advantage for us, of course, is our relationship with our bottlers, and the strength of our distribution channels.   

We've seen solid progress in our company-owned bottle operations, which in terms of volume is now the second largest bottler in the world. The back to basics approach and improved in market execution can clearly be seen in our results in Germany as well as in India amongst many other places.   

Now let me focus on my second priority. Which is to reestablish consistent growth in our home market North America. The first quarter results were weak as expected, and we are clearly not satisfied with the 3% decline in volumes. We've got a lot of work to do, but certainly there are signs of improvement. In the first quarter we demonstrated our commitment to driving growth in trademark Coca-Cola as we activated solid campaigns for Coca-Cola Classic, diet Coke, and Coke Zero. Integrated campaigns for all three brands included events, television advertising, link to retail activation. We returned to the Super Bowl with The Coke Side of Life, to the Oscars with diet Coke, and most recently built our presence in the NCAA basketball tournament featuring Coke Zero. And of course, our sponsorship of American Idol continues to feature all three brands.   

Our campaigns are creating consumer awareness. Coke Zero continues to gain share reaching a 1.2 share during the quarter in Nielsen. Diet Coke showed positive in the quarter and gained share, while Coca-Cola classic also gained share. The next round of innovation you will see in the second quarter is the introduction of diet Coke plus, our first venture under the Coca-Cola trademark for a sparkling calorie free beverage with vitamins and minerals.   

In still beverages for North America, we continue to make progress in our areas of focus. Trademarks Dasani, Minute Maid, Simply, Odwalla, and POWERADE each gained category share. In teas, while volume increased by double digits, there is significant opportunity to improve, and we have begun to reset our business. Our recent agreement with Nestle to refocus the BPW joint venture increases our flexibilities of tea and coffee categories in North America, which we are pursuing vigorously. And we're very excited about our recently announced acquisition of Fuze, which includes a variety of tea, juice, and other enhanced beverages and further rounds out our expanding still portfolio.   

Overall, we remain totally committed to winning in North America and have an active plan to address the business issues. We are focused on building our system execution capability by developing working relationships with our bottlers based on cooperation and collaboration. We anticipate continued weakness in 2007, though. The first half of the year. In the second half of 2007, we expect to see sequential improvement and evidence of progress as we execute against our key goals, which are leading growth in sparkling beverages, driven by trademark Coca-Cola, delivering the fastest value growth in still beverages, and being the preferred beverage partner for our customers.   

Now, thirdly, let me turn to productivity. An important -- very important component to our success in North America as well as around the globe is ensuring we increase productivity. We are delayering and simplifying our structure so we can improve our speed of execution and improve leverage. This will enable us to better align the architecture of the organization to the three pillars that are the core drivers of our top line growth. Consumer marketing, commercial leadership, and franchise leadership. This is a targeted effort to enable the organization to be more effective, efficient, and to remove bureaucracy. All of our efforts center around avoiding waste and removing distractions that cause us to lose focus on the three pillars mentioned above. These initiatives will result in some cost savings, but importantly will improve clarity on decision-making, which will allow for more time to be focused on revenue-generating activities. Other efforts are longer term and involve driving system efficiencies.   

There are projects -- there are projects around the global supply chain and common IT platforms. The bottlers have already been doing an excellent job in many respects and it can be seen in the improvement of their returns. We've already experienced success in global procurement of key commodity inputs as well as in Japan with the supply chain management company where we are using those lessons to build similar models in China and Mexico, particularly as we gain scale to still beverages. But there is still significant room for improvement across our entire system. As we reinvigorate the organization and realize the productivity gains, we'll selectively reinvest behind our three pillars to drive further top line growth.   

My fourth priority is compressing the innovation pipeline. This really gets at our speed to market. Our organization has never lacked for innovative ideas. What we've lacked is a discipline to commercialize expeditiously. We are focused on doing fewer things and doing them better. A clear example has been the global success of Coke Zero, which will reach 40 markets representing 75% of total trademark Coca-Cola volume by the end of 2007. But we are taking a broader view of innovation.   

It's not just simply product formulations, it also includes such things as the new Coca-Cola grip bottle, which will be available to over 50% of the world's population by the end of 2007, The Coke Side of Life campaign, which will be in over 200 markets. We're using M&A to augment scale and capabilities, for example, with Fuze here in North America. It's also brand, price, package, and channel architecture that we are jointly developing with our bottling partners. And it's the way we're working with our bottlers to agree on long-term plans for profitable system growth and equitable value share. While I've identified four distinct priorities, my goal for the year is to deliver on our business plan by driving sustainable top line growth and leverage in the P&L.   

In summary, both Neville and I are pleased with the solid start to 2007, but we are not satisfied. While we're moving in the right direction, we still have a lot of work to do. Neville said it best at CAGNY, the opportunity for Coca-Cola as the only truly global beverage company in a growing beverage industry remains significant. Having sustained a solid growth in sparkling beverages internationally, we have proven that there is still opportunity in sparkling beverages and our global still portfolio is just beginning to develop. We have a focused and effective strategic agenda, supporting a renewed confidence in delivering against our long-term growth targets. We know there will be bumps, but with a new culture of innovation, improving speed to market, and maintaining an output focus, I am certain our work will create long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders. Now, let me turn the call over to Gary.   

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO,  THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Muhtar, and good morning, everyone. As Neville and Muhtar indicated we're starting the year with a strong financial performance. As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share at $0.54 for the first quarter, an increase of 15%. This included a net charge, primarily related to an asset write off in the Philippines from the Philippines bottler, partially offset by gains from the sale of an ownership interest in one of our Brazilian bottlers and from real estate in Spain. Therefore, our adjusted EPS was $0.56 per share, an increase of 14% after considering items impacting comparability in both 2007 and in 2006. We attribute about $0.01 of the earnings per share to timing of Concentrate shipments as Concentrate sales growth was slightly ahead of reported unit case growth in the quarter, primarily due to Easter being a little earlier this year.   

Net revenue in the quarter increased 17%, that included a 5-point benefit from structural change related to our acquisitions of some bottlers. The growth was also driven by a 6 point increase in Concentrate sales, 3 points from currency, and 3 points from price and mix benefits. We grew operating income by 17% on a reported basis. After considering items impacting comparability in the current and prior year quarter, operating income increased 14%, which includes a 3 point benefit from currency. So for an ongoing currency neutral basis, we grew operating income at 11%.   

SG&A increased 13% in the quarter, so let me take a moment and walk you through that increase. About 8 points of that 13 point increase were due to the bottler acquisitions and that's from increased selling and service expenses as we invested for growth in bottling operations and due to currency. The remaining 5 points we continue to invest solidly behind our brands and controlled G&A expenses as we continue to focus on productivity and expense management. In the quarter we repurchased approximately $676 million of our stock. As a result, our average shares outstanding in the first quarter in 2007 were approximately 45 million shares lower than the average in 2006. We still anticipate that our range of share repurchase in 2007 will be between 2.5 and $3 billion. In terms of dividends, the Board raised the quarterly dividends for the 45th consecutive year by 10% to $0.34 per common share, which is an equivalent $1.36 per share on an annual basis.   

Now, let me address some of the factors that we see impacting the remainder of 2007. We remain relatively positive on the macro economic outlook for the remainder of the year, especially in many of our emerging markets. We will continue to portfolio manage globally as we expect solid performance in most of our markets with weak performance in North America, particularly in the second quarter as we cycle stronger volume and profit results. As with the first quarter, we would again expect our consolidated bottling operations to be a positive contributor as we continue to build world class operations.   

As for the acquisition of the Philippines bottler, you should think about it really in two buckets. First, we took a charge this quarter for the write-off of bottles and cases in the Philippines bottler. Second, we expect full year earnings per share results to be reduced by $0.02 as we invest a return the Philippines bottler operations to grow. Most of this impact will be reflected in the bottling investments group. Capital expenditure requirements will be slightly less than $100 million and will take the total company capital expenditures for 2007 up to about $1.6 billion. For 2008, we do not expect the Philippines to have any impact on consolidated results. And in 2009, the operations, which should start contributing to growth. That and the impact on 2008 would include covering the interest cost from the acquisition.   

As for items below operating income in the P&L, I'd like to remind everyone that we still expect net interest costs to increase primarily due to lower cash balances and higher debt balances due to share repurchase, acquisitions, such as the Philippines bottler, dividends, and capital spending. Also keep in mind that equity income will be negatively impacted by our reduced ownership position in Coca-Cola FEMSA and our Turkish bottler as well as from selling our equity interest in one of our Brazilian bottlers this quarter. With regard to taxes, we ended the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate of 23%, and we would expect to remain at that underlying effective rate for the remainder of the year.   

Let me move to currency. As I mentioned we saw a positive impact from currencies for the quarter on operating income of 3%. That was in line with our expectations. We continue to put coverage in place and are now effectively covered for the full year on both the yen and the euro. Based on current spot rates and the expected impact of coverage in place, we expect a small positive impact from currencies on full year 2007 results.   

Before I close, I wanted to remind everyone about the 8-K we filed with the SEC two weeks ago, containing the additional segment detail for the two new operating groups, Eurasia and Pacific. Please go to our website and pull the information down to assist in your modeling. Those are the topics I wanted to cover this morning, now we can turn the call over to your questions. Operator?   

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] And our first question will come from the line of John Faucher with  JPMorgan.

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. Wanted to follow-up a little bit on the price mix line, which came in, I think very nice this quarter. Can you give us a little guidance in terms of with the change in Concentrate pricing from what we can see from a CC standpoint in terms of looking at plus 4 and then net it down to 0. Can you talk a little bit about how that's going to work out financially? And what goals you have in place for CCE in that regard? And can you also give us an idea on the mix side in terms of how we're seeing some of the bottler case mix, is that a positive, which is offsetting some of the negative country mix and how we should map that out over the balance of the year? Thanks.   

GARY FAYARD: Hi, John. Gary, thanks for the question. Let me take price mix first. What you're seeing is 3 points of price mix. About 2 points of that is coming from the core, and 1 point is an impact from bottling operations. And that price mix is really from I'd say the quality of our growth with very strong sparkling beverage growth as well as very balanced growth across the world, particularly EU, Latin America, Japan. You're seeing positive mix come through, country mix come through even with an offset from North America, as well as the quality of that growth with a strong sparkling beverage growth. Muhtar, you want to?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, essentially in those numbers, the U.S. Concentrate price is already embedded in those numbers and, essentially we've also had very good benefits in Latin America from the [Inaudible] pricing as we drive revenue growth management across all the markets as well as in the EU.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So then is the -- CC had talked about meeting some certain goals to get the Concentrate pricing netted down to 0. Is that showing up in the price mix line, or is that showing up in the SG&A line if you are in fact netting the Concentrate pricing down?   

GARY FAYARD: John, it's showing up in the price mix line.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Even with that, assuming that CC's meeting their targets, even with that you're still putting up high quality growth there on the price mix line?   

GARY FAYARD: That's correct.   

JOHN FAUCHER: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Pecoriello with  Morgan Stanley.

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morning, everybody. Muhtar, you had mentioned some of the productivity benefits as one of your goals. You mentioned delayering, indirect procurement, supply chain. Might you be able to quantify any of this or talk about the timing in terms of what kind of funds would be available for reinvestment? Also with the recent meeting you had with the bottlers in China, I guess supply chain was one of the topics. If you can help us all understand what was discussed with the bottlers at that meeting?   

MUHTAR KENT: You need to think of this activity this ongoing activity, Bill, in various buckets. The first is the architecture of our organization so that we can, with the primary purpose of that being really delayering and ensuring that we have speed, better focus, less bureaucracy, much more improved time in terms of our execution. But that, of course, will yield some savings. And we're in the process of analyzing how -- what we do with those savings and how we reinvest, how much we reinvest, and how much we actually put in terms of to our bottom line in terms of leverage. I can't quantify any further. International piece of that work is completed. We're completing some further work on that in North America.   

The second bucket is some of the other productivity work that is going on at the moment in the Company that is related to our indirect cost inside the total  Coca-Cola Company. And we've essentially, Gary [Aburiel] are leading that work stream. And then third piece is the whole area of a longer term supply chain initiatives for the entire system which is a much bigger number and there's different buckets of work going on across the world in that area. If you look at it in three groups, really that's as much as I'd like to say on that right now.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, if I cold just build on that, you'll see that there is operating leverage coming through in this quarter. We believe you'll continue to see that. If you go back to when we did not appear to have operating leverage, really it was the '05 $400 million reinvestment back into marketing. And if you look at our top line growth, you can see that that clearly has worked adding the fuel to the brands. So, just echoing what Muhtar has said, therefore as we -- you can create operating leverage in two different ways, you can keep your expenses flat where they are and push the top line by reinvesting some savings. And that's one way we're looking at it. But you've got to be sure that you've got effective programs. We think we've got those effective programs in the works right now. But also, of course, there will be some of that, which will actually just naturally flow down to the bottom line, as well. And that makes -- you'll see that evolve in the quarters ahead.   

BILL PECORIELLO: And the recent meetings in China with the bottlers. How would you characterize them?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: First of all, headlines very positive. I think there's -- Muhtar was talking about improved bottler relations in his earlier comments. Obviously their numbers, if you look at the international bottlers are improving. They have a strong belief in how we're moving forward. We spent quite a lot of time sharing some of the innovations that are still in the boxes that were for the future. And I -- I think we're bringing the bottling system behind with us. But obviously we are focusing on execution, which is their side of the bargain and something that clearly they agreed they have to improve upon. And then the other piece of the other bucket that Muhtar talked about we spent a lot of time on that, which is what we can do systemically in order to improve the overall health of the system as a whole.   

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.   

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. In connection with your increased incidence rate in Mexico, you had agreed with your bottlers increased marketing spending this year. So far in the first quarter, the margin trends are still pretty much consistent with last year. Are we starting to see this increased marketing spending in the P&L at this point?   

GARY FAYARD: Hi Robert, Gary. Yes, and you're right. When we increased the incidence rate in Mexico, we also agreed that we would increase or spend back some of that incidence increase in marketing as well as creation and exploitation, if you will, still portfolio in Mexico. You are seeing us do that, that is happening. The marketing, remember, is on a sales curve. So it's kind of curved over the full year, but there is an increase in marketing in Latin America. And that includes the impact from the increased incidence.   

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Great. Thanks.   

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.   

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Muhtar, a couple of questions just relative to North America. Going into this year, pretty high expectations in terms of pricing, retail pricing. And I'm just curious to know your assessment so far in terms of price elasticity. Has volume responded more or less in line with where you thought it would be? And looking forward, sort of your expectations on how you'll monitor that and whether or not there's going to be a need to maybe act in terms of moderating price increases.   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Good morning. I think, essentially, although as I said, we have not been happy at all with the results for the first quarter for our North American operations, they are actually slightly better than our expectations and what we had in our budget. And what we see is generally, of course, and particularly the sparkling category overall as well as in segments like orange juice and juice containing beverages very large price increases, but we see also that in the retail environment the actual elasticity and actual demand elasticity for our products based on individual packages has actually been generally in line with expectations. What we've expected based on those price increases.   

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with  Stifel Nicolaus.

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, operator. Good morning, everyone. Muhtar, question for you regarding Japan. Nice to see another quarter of positive volumes there. Georgia seems relatively speaking in a little better position than it was a year ago. Nonetheless, it looks like margins are going down in that market for you. You're spending more there. I guess, A, is that a fair assessment? And then B, how would you just characterize the competitive environment and the retail environment across your portfolio not only for the coffee, the ready to drink coffee, but your total portfolio?   

MUHTAR KENT: Well, I think what I'd like to say is on Japan, six of our core brands grew double digits in Q1, and we've strengthened the core by refocusing our commitment. Sokenbicha in tea remains a strong brand, delivered good volume growth and trademark Coca-Cola has shown stabilization and has actually grown now with The Coke Side of Life campaign. And more to come in that area. So in general, I think we're happy with where we are with our stabilization and return to growth in Japan. As far as coffee is concerned, the core brands of coffee grew. What is also very encouraging in Japan is that in the entire quarter our vending machines and our entire vending segment has grew, which is also very important for our margins. And essentially, we are focused, we are spending in the market, we're spending on a positive basis, and we believe that our sequential improvement in Japan is going to continue.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great. And then, that's helpful. And just to kind of close that thought on the spending side. When you think about the level of spend today, perhaps on a per case basis versus year ago, 18 months ago versus looking forward, how do you feel about that number? Or more simply, there's been a step up investment. Do you see it stepping up further?   

MUHTAR KENT: I don't see -- that may -- I don't see any significant changes compared to 12 or 18 months ago overall. There may be some timing in there, but I don't see anything materially changing there. And I think we've -- we're at the reasonable rate right now. I don't see it going up any further. And I think the critical thing is that our entire bottling system is much -- in a much different place, it's energized and everything else we're doing for productivity in the market is working and the growth, of course is the key to everything.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Excellent. Thanks, Muhtar.   

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with  Goldman Sachs.

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, good morning. I'm wondering if you can maybe update us further on your tea strategy going forward, both in U.S. and outside the U.S. given the changes to the BPW joint venture. And just particularly North America, if you look at your tea portfolio whether this is a category where you may need to be more aggressive on the acquisition front?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, good morning. I've said -- first, let me just two sentences on the BPW. As you know the BPW arrangement has been recast and we're now essentially it's for all teas across the world with the exception of Japan and now North America also and also coffee, both sides are free to do what they want in the area of coffee.   

Now, let me focus on tea. BPW arrangement with the Nestea brand has been successful in many, many markets and will continue to be successful in many, many markets around the world. USA was one market where we believed we were not winning in tea, we needed more flexibility, and we are intent on winning in tea in the U.S. market. The results so far in the last 2 years have not been acceptable, are not acceptable and we are going to win in tea. We cannot afford not to win share in tea and we cannot afford to grow ahead of the market in a very big category that is growing in the United States. And that's the objective of all of the exercise that we've gone through. And you will see us refocusing what we have in our portfolio with Nestea, with Gold Peak, with Enviga, with other brands as well as looking at new opportunities in the market in rapid fashion.   

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with  Merrill Lynch.

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning. Muhtar, you talked about brand, pack, and price architecture internationally and how that's successful. In looking at North America, I'm just wondering, and maybe low-hanging fruit is a bad term, but can you point to what the real efforts are here in North America? Is it squarely focused on go to market strategy? Or is the brand pack price architect or something that has to be aligned more quickly? Thank you.   

MUHTAR KENT: Both. Go to market strategy is critical as well as the BPPC architecture is critical. As we move forward in order to ensure that we have revenue growth activities, management in the marketplace, and that we align consumer needs and the consumer better to our brand price pack and channel architecture in the United States. And we're doing -- there's going to be a lot of activity in that area, including simple things like redesigning some of our labels to look more attractive.   

Looking at the entire merchandising sets by channel from convenience stores all the way into retail and different parts of retail and how we can generate further impulse in the marketplace, which has all worked and continues to work very favorably for us in Latin America, across Eurasia, and and across parts of the EU. The test in Denver that we've had, we're doing some tests in Denver with CC and successive tests with that test is actually showing that it's a simple architecture, but it works. It works very effectively.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay. Great. And if I can just follow-up with a housekeeping item for Gary. Your corporate expenses, is there any investment in that line for overall system productivity at this stage? Or is that a good run rate in terms of year-over-year growth?   

GARY FAYARD: Within the Corporate expense line, there's slight investment in productivity investments for system initiatives, but it's primarily just kind of year on year growth. And underlying the G&A expenses, underlying in corporate were very much -- in fact we're below our budgeted rate. So we're really focussed on holding those expenses.   

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you very much.   

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with  Citigroup.

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. My question is for, I guess Muhtar and Neville. It's quite clear you're not satisfied with the business in North America. And I'm curious, when you look out over the next several years, is there some concern that this could be a leading indicator in any way, shape, or form? Either the consumer here in North America, the way you go to market, the products, and if so, because I know we're different all around the world how do you try to prevent that? Or is it the reverse? Are you really trying to, again, incorporate the best practices that you mentioned, Muhtar, and trying the fix North America?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: We'll let the non-American here start first. I don't think there's any fundamental difference. After all, it's what happened in America that built the business around the world. There are a number of issues facing us at the moment. The head winds of the pricing are clearly the major head wind that we have with regard to sparkling beverages. There's also this whole issue of commitment and belief. And you heard me say, you heard me at CAGNY about around the world people looking at me when I came back. When I said we'll get sparkling beverages growing again with a level of disbelief. Obviously the pricing head winds have held back North America. But I was and Muhtar was with them, as well. We were with a number of bottlers over the last week. They have a belief that we have coming along the pipeline, diet Coke Plus now, what's happening with Coke Zero, et cetera that we now have the tools to actually replicate what we've done in the rest of the world in North America. Whilst building out our still beverage portfolio. So I don't think there's anything exceptional about the United States.   

Remembering that the -- you'll see the same sort of sticker shock in the Hispanic community, a lot of them who were immigrants who were consuming the product in other parts of the world. So the headline for us is that there is sticker shock here, but number two, that we have the consumer marketing, which is working. We are also have the bottler commitment in terms of franchise leadership. And I think if you talked to the bottlers you'll feel a whole new level of confidence and a commitment in terms of the operational side of what is needed. John Brock has said that one of the things that he's picked up is there are lessens from around the world that we need to pick up in North America and i think that's a very good sign. Muhtar, you want to build off that?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, just to refocus again on the consumer. Connecting with our core consumers. An industry with well received creative and highly rated messaging. You saw examples of that in the Super Bowl, NCAA, Oscars, improving the performance of Coke Zero and diet Coke which are actually significantly, significantly outperforming the sparkling category. My Coke Rewards program now over 4 million members. Again, connecting with our chief consumer target base.   

And then on the commercial leadership, we are aligned. I repeat, we are aligned with CCE on segmented merchandising, which is part of the BPPC architecture and a rollout of that. It's going to cover about a fourth to maybe even a third of our large source supermarkets by the end of this year. Agreement also with CC to build total beverage account team, again a very important, significant area in commercial leadership. And then also on franchise leadership, the third pillar, again, aligned beverage growth agenda with all of our top to top bottlers. So again, with specifics on product innovation, we've mentioned diet Coke Plus, but there are many others in the area of packaging, in the area of how we create impulse at the point of sale.   

And then we've reorganized our United States business along the lines of our international business to focus on the three core pillars, focusing on sparkling, focusing on stills, and focusing on new and emerging markets, put very experienced people against all those three areas. And the other important thing is you walk around the U.S. market, Bonnie, you walk around the U.S. market and we've lost the drive to create impulse. That's what we're bringing back. No signage. The whole signage program for the world started right here in the United States 30, 40 years ago. Now you walk around Latin America, you walk around Europe, you walk around Asia, you walk around Africa everywhere you have signs that say ice cold Coca-Cola served here, not in the United States. That's creating the impulse, again back to basics and we know we can do it. So it's both. Bringing best practices from outside and then leveraging the power of the category, which is bigger than anywhere else in the world here in the United States. Doing both at the same time.   

BONNIE HERZOG: Okay. That was very helpful. So in terms of timing, you're thinking by the end of this year, will it take you maybe until early next year to do a lot of what you said because it all sounds great.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think -- I don't want to comment any more on the timing. I think you see our sense of urgency.   

BONNIE HERZOG: Got it. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.   

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everyone. To the extent that you beat your top line growth algorithms what impact could this have on your future CapEx? And potentially does it limit any increase in your cash return to shareholders? And then also can you talk about the macro economic backdrop in some of the developed markets like Western Europe and Japan and how this may have helped results?   

GARY FAYARD: Sure. Well, first relative to CapEx should not have any real impact on CapEx, actually. Because most of our CapEx is in some of the finished products businesses in North America. Some of the bottling and bottling investments, which are really kind of not permanent investments for us. No change in business model. I don't see much change in CapEx. Relative to dividends, we've been very consistent and have been increasing dividends at a pretty good clip over the last few years. So we would expect to continue to see dividend increases. And again, an annual decision that we'd be looking at the end of this year, but kind of have a dividend policy in place for this year. Relative to macro economic trends, Muhtar, you want to comment on that one or Neville?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: I'll pick that up. There is a broad optimism you've seen what the OECD is saying, what the world bank is saying. I think that global growth is going to continue at the rate that we've seen over the past couple of years for '07 and through into '08. And that's really reflected in our plans. The one that you still would query, I suppose, would be Japan. And I think we're cautiously optimistic about that country coming out of stagnation and giving the importance of Japan together with the actions that we're taking in the Japanese business, which are becoming apparent in terms of being successful, we are becoming more bullish about cautiously optimistic, I would put it about Japan.   

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Got it, thank you.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.   

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. I was hoping you could talk a bit more about product buildout, maybe even more importantly the potential for acquisitions in North America. Obviously we heard about your acquisition of Fuse. I was just thinking about if we should expect similar deals in the works. Basically, how are you thinking about internally developing brands in the U.S. versus acquiring brands?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Developing brands let me pass that to Muhtar in a second, but we really don't comment on acquisitions. I still stay with what we've said all along that we're going to do both. That would be largely bolt-on. But opportunities come up, and we evaluate every opportunity and look to see whether that is the right way to build our portfolio. And Muhtar made the comments in his remarks that that's what we would do. Buying is sometimes the right way. But what we have is an innovation pipeline coming along where we are building and building at a rate that we have not been building in the past. If you just look at the -- even if you look at patents that we're getting registered in terms of new benefits that we could add to our own beverages, you'll see that in the innovation pipeline. Muhtar, would you like to talk about just about what's coming down to the pipe from the build side for North America?   

MUHTAR KENT: There's no question. We have some clear winners. We've mentioned Coke Zero, the Simply trademark is really a great winner. We're excited about Vault, the recent launch of Vault Red Blitz, with a huge immediate consumption focus. Energy continues to gain share in this competitive category against our principal competitor as well as against the market. The Finely flavored waters. You'll see us doing a lot of critical extensions. You'll see us being more active in the area of ready to drink coffee. As we said, we launched Coca-Cola Cherry Zero in the quarter. You'll see more extensions around Coke Zero, the success of Coke Zero leverage to more extensions. Diet Coke Plus and what the implications that that has for some of the other products. And you'll see us again developing and leveraging Fuse. We feel it's a huge opportunity.   

So those are just some of the ideas that I want to share with you in terms of how we feel about building internally. Enviga is another one. You'll see us again being active in the area of tea, Gold Peak. Those are just some of the things that can highlight to you what we feel in terms of both what's in our innovation pipeline and how we intend to quickly commercialize and build internally as well as strategically add on any bolt-on acquisitions.   

LAUREN TORRES: So I guess it would be fair to say that your bottlers are encouraged by the pipeline coming through?   

MUHTAR KENT: If you talked to them, I believe that's what they would say.   

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Riley with Morningstar.   

MATTHEW RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. I was hoping you could address the labor issues the Coke system seems to be facing in North America. Whether this could lead to trouble executing the turnaround you anticipate in the North American market?   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, the issue is one that is with CCE. We don't want to comment on what our bottlers are doing in terms of a potential labor dispute. And I think the evidence that you've seen in the past is that we have a very capable bottler that is certainly able to handle these type of issues very effectively with their Unions. Clearly there is some discussion around issues at the moment as they restructure. I would anticipate that sensible people will be able to come to sensible solutions.   

ANN TAYLOR: Last question, operator.   

OPERATOR: This morning's final question will come from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.   

ANN GURKIN, ANALYST, DAVENPORT: Good morning. Two things. One, can you talk about the strategy for POWERADE in the U.S. in terms of pricing and marketing? Secondly, I believe at CAGNY you talked about pushing into or developing volumes in emerging markets and your strategies in terms of using existing bottlers, acquiring bottlers, or using JVs in terms of distributions?   

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, let me take the one on POWERADE. Essentially, we've gained volume as well as value in POWERADE. And we continue to be cautiously optimistic in terms of the category and also the competitive position of POWERADE. You will see us accelerating POWERADE in retail channels this year. A POWERADE option expansion is an example of that, the NCAA commercials and so forth. So certainly we feel that there's runway ahead of POWERADE and that it will gain, continue to gain traction as well as competitive advantage.   

As far as the international, the question you asked about international. Basically, I've said it before, as we expand our portfolio across the world, whether it's Latin America, Europe, Asia, the traditional models that we worked with for the last 100 years, 120 years may not always be best uses for developing fast, quickly our business in these noncarbonated and particularly juice and juice containing beverage categories. And in those areas where we are trying out some new models with our bottling partners that are more close to what we call JV models and based on sharing of the opportunities both, and sharing of the investments as well as equitably sharing the value created rapidly in those segments. That's basically what I'd like to say. Does that sufficiently answer your question?   

ANN GURKIN: Yes, what about are you raising prices on POWERADE in the U.S.?   

MUHTAR KENT: Pardon me?   

ANN GURKIN: Are you raising prices on POWERADE in the U.S.?   

MUHTAR KENT: I don't really want to comment on that right now. But if you looked at the Nielsen numbers, you won't see that happening.   

ANN GURKIN: Great. Thanks. Great.   

NEVILLE ISDELL: Thank you, everyone. Thanks Muhtar and Gary. I want to just emphasize to all of you who joined us this morning, that this is one quarter. It is a strong start to the year. And we are continuing to build off the successes that we saw in 2006. So we do have consistency, we do have momentum. I am confident that our strategies are working. And as I've mentioned in every quarter since my return, execution and maintaining an outward focus on our customers and consumers are critical for our success. And that consistency you're going to see continuing. We continue to remain focused on the long-term health of the business. Again, I've said that since day one, everything we're doing is looking at building this business for long-term, sustainable growth, and therefore building value for our share owners. Thank you very much, everyone. Good-bye.   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the  Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2007 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070424e34h000b5
  


 HD
 Q4  2006 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,854 words
   PD
14 February 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's fourth quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Participants will be announced by their name and company name in the order they are received. Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions.  

I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR, IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I am pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer; and Muhtar Kent, our Chief Operating Officer. Following prepared remarks by Neville and Gary this morning we will turn the call over for your questions.  

Before we get started I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report. In addition I would also like to call your attention to the fact we have posted schedules on our company website at thecocacolacompany.com in the investor section which reconcile our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles to certain non-GAAP Measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. As usual I am going to make a few observations about the results, slightly more extended given that it's year end, and also highlight our accomplishments for 2006, then Gary is going to provide you with an overview for the financials, some additional perspective on '07. It's been yet another solid quarter, and we achieved full-year results at the top end of our long-term growth targets for volume, for operating income, and for earnings per share. We again demonstrated that geographic diversity of our business and we continued to focus on daily execution right across the globe.  

For the year, we achieved 4% unit case volume growth resulting in ongoing currency neutral operating income of 8% and ongoing EPS growth of 9%. We also gained share. Numbers are just in. Globally, in all key categories with the exception only of ready to drink tea and coffee.  

For the year, international operations delivered 6% unit case volume growth. Performance in Latin America was particularly strong growing 7% while cycling 6% growth in the prior year. Additionally, we achieved double-digit growth in key emerging markets. Those include China and Russia, Turkey, the Middle East, with solid growth throughout Africa. The European Union group delivered 6% growth with solid results in Spain, Central Europe, and happy to say, continued improvement in Northwest Europe. Japan finished the year down as we predicted, but again, as we predicted, delivered sequential improvement with fourth quarter growing by 2%. The Philippines, by the way, continues to be a drag. In fact, the Philippine decline reduced our overall growth by 1% for the year. However, that was compensated for by the bolt-on acquisitions primarily in juice and water which therefore added 1% to the international unit case volume. So that balanced out the Philippines but I just wanted to highlight the drag on those overall numbers.  

North America. Now, North America was obviously disappointing from a volume perspective but it did contribute with solid profit growth as we focused on operating expense management and also we have solid performance in foodservice and the Minute Maid business but that was offset with weakness in retail, particularly, of course, evident in the second half of the year. We are going to talk to you more about our 2007 expectations in just a few minutes, particularly around North America.  

We have achieved the objectives that we set out for you at the beginning of the year. If I go back to December 2005 we articulated a clear and focused agenda. That was reinvigorate sparkling beverage growth, expand the footprint of our other core brands to capture emerging consumer need states, lead the franchise, and address and course-correct as issues arise. I'd like to review our progress on each one of these.  

First of all, reinvigorating sparkling beverage growth. Sparkling beverages, what we simply define as nonalcoholic ready to drink consumer beverages with carbonation grew 4% for the year and achieved its highest growth rate in almost a decade, since 1998 to be exact. That success was driven, I'm happy to say, by our core global brands with trademark Coke up 3%, again the highest rate since '98, and Fanta up 4%, Sprite up 5%. In all these brands represented an additional 11.7 billion servings last year. Think about it. That's almost two additional servings for every single person on the planet.  

I'll highlight trademark Coca-Cola. Because we executed on four key global initiatives to drive growth. The Coke side of life. Our integrated global Coca-Cola marketing campaign has now run in almost 100 markets representing over 85% of worldwide Coca-Cola volume. The happiness factory spot has been a star performer scoring, in fact, as our best ever global commercial tested. I'm sure many of you have seen some of our other spots such as video game on American Idol and during the Super Bowl. It's not only good reviews. What these commercials are doing is driving increased efficiency, as our television commercial reuse rate was double our 2002 to 2005 average, resulting in a mid-teens percentage reduction in our overall TVC production and agency fees.  

Second, in over 100 markets we launched an integrated marketing platform threaded together by a unifying theme, we all speak football, supporting the very successful FIFA World Cup. We saw the results not only in volume but across key marketing scores such as favorite brand and purchase intent.  

Third, the rollout of Coca-Cola Zero was a really important success, contributing almost one-third of trademark Coca-Cola's growth and driving incremental share gains by sourcing volume from competitors. In 2006, Coke Zero launched in 14 new markets from Australia to Ireland. By the end of 2007, we will have reached over 35 markets.  

Last, interactive communications. CocaCola.com, our common Internet platform launched in 31 countries in 11 languages and reached 664 million impressions. It is really a step change in recruiting and connecting our brands to teens in a truly unique way. We're really leveraging their passions for entertainment, for sports, and for music. In all, trademarks Coca-Cola, Sprite, and Fanta contributed over half of the growth for the year, and as I mentioned earlier, we gained share in sparkling beverages globally.  

Secondly, expanding the footprint of our core brands. We've done that by capturing emerging consumer need states and that was our second priority. Let me give you some data. 2006 we continued to build our innovation pipeline with the total of 1,383 total product and package launches, 590 of those were new, and 367 were existing products launched into new markets. Trademarks Dasani, POWERade, and Aquarius continue to perform solidly. In packaged water we gained share excluding the impact of the strategic decision on the Dannon brands in North America.  

The sports and energy categories continued to be a strong growth area and a global opportunity. Our juice platform continued to evolve. As you know, we're already the global leader in juice and juice drinks and we increased our global presence through trademark Minute Maid's expansion and key acquisitions. Trademark Minute Maid was launched in nine new countries and volume increased 7% with solid growth in China, Korea, Great Britain, and Belgium. In the U.S., our warehouse juice and juice drinks portfolio continued to gain volume and value share as we successfully implemented price increases in what is a difficult cost environment.  

The acquisitions of Multon in Russia which took place during 2005 and the recent announcement of Jugos del Valle, their second largest producer of packaged juices and fruit-flavored beverages in Mexico and the largest producer in Brazil solidify our global leadership in juice. In fact, it makes us number one in Latin America. The activity resulted in a 1 percentage point increase in our volume and value share of international juices and juice drinks.  

Third on our agenda is leading the franchise. From my first day back I have stressed that the Coca-Cola Company in order to excel needs our whole system to be healthy and to be alive. This is more than just a financial metric. It's about changing the mind-set of our people to take a total system focus and understand the value chain all the way from consumer to manufacturer. But it's also about making the hard decisions. And we have done that time and again. In Germany, we have made significant progress on the creation of a one bottle system in order to move more effectively and more efficiently to serve the marketplace. Latin America, we jointly created with our bottling partners a new system operating framework. You have also seen us take control of our destiny in certain markets.  

In China with the Cary franchise the Company made a proactive decision which will clearly facilitate new long-term investment plans to expedite the already fast-growing China business. The most recently announced -- company announcement that the company has now agreed with our bottlers to acquire the remaining stake in the Philippines, and this is going to be a significant issue with regard to 2006. You all know I have got a long history with the Philippines, and I believe that we can bring about a turnaround starting with that acquisition in 2007.  

So let me come to the fourth point. Address and course-correct as issues arrive. Now, addressing issues is always going to be something that happens to a company that operates in 200 countries. And what we had did is we highlighted at the beginning of the year three markets in particular that needed addressing. They were the Philippines, which we have already covered, the European Union group, and India.  

As for the EU group, particularly parts of Western Europe and India, the results have certainly improved. For the EU group, we are continuing to see the results of world-class execution of our key programs and alignment with our bottling partners. The results, sparkling beverage growth of 4%, still beverage growth of 20% plus and our low or no calorie beverages amounting to 62% of our total growth. 2006 demonstrated our ability to remain focused on our commitments and to rebuild a solid foundation. Of course, we are not claiming victory. We must grow our core sparkling beverages, take share in emerging and existing store categories, and continue with breakthrough innovation.  

India's fourth quarter results were certainly encouraging. Unit case volume increased 12%, and we certainly gained overall value share there as well. We would expect India to return to its prior growth story over the long term, and we will continue to reinforce the trust campaign, which has worked so well in supporting the safety and quality of every Coca-Cola product. Additionally, during the year we highlighted Japan, as weakness in our core brands, particularly Georgia coffee, impacted our results. We committed to you a sequential quarterly improvement, and we have delivered against our commitment in our fourth quarter, as announced earlier unit case volume increased 2%, cycling a 1% growth in the prior year quarter. The quarter's overall results reflect stabilization in performance and an improved position for growth in 2007. As you will note, we have quickly addressed issues in markets that have required it, and we put them back on the right path.  

So the last key market to address currently therefore is North America. In North America, we're not satisfied with our performance. And in 2007, our system faces a challenging cost environment and a weak sparkling beverage trends. We're now moving forward in a collaborative aligned way with our North American bottling system to meet the market challenges. However, we do expect 2007 to be weak, particularly in the first half of the year, as we cycle strong performance in the prior year. The second half of 2007, we do, however, expect to see sequential improvement and evidence of momentum building in North America as we execute against our key goals. Leading growth in sparkling beverages led by trademark Coca-Cola is one of those key goals. Delivering the fastest value growth in still beverages is another. Finally, the other leg of the stool being the preferred beverage partner for our customers.  

No matter which market you examine the basics are clear. When an issue arose we quickly identified the root causes, developed and communicated our action plan, and delivered results. While I'm sure other issues will arise, our ability to better anticipate consumer and customer needs and provide customized solutions when executing our initiatives is going to allow to us rapidly address and course-correct when these unfortunate things occur.  

Let me say this, however. While we achieved these short-term strategic operational and financial objectives there is more we now need to do. Our momentum is building as we begin to realize the extent of our full potential. Before turning the call over to Gary I'd like to highlight some recent key management moves.  

First, I'd like to congratulate the gentleman sitting next to me, Muhtar Kent who was elected by the Board in early December as President and Chief Operating Officer. This clearly recognizes the success of our international operations this year, but also Muhtar's 25 years of system experience and achievement. Additionally we announced changes to our operating structure to align geographic responsibility. Glenn Jordan is going to assume responsibility for the Pacific Group, including Japan, China, and the Philippines. And Ahmet Bozer was promoted to lead the Eurasia group. Ahmet is a tremendous operator. You heard me talk about the Middle East results, Russia, part of his existing territory. And he's got both company and bottling experience, a trend that you have seen developing in terms of a number of the appointments that we've made. And he's certainly well deserving of his expanded responsibilities. Muhtar, with his large bandwidth, and his belief in operational excellence, is going to be highly focused on our priorities for this year an we together look forward to coming back to you in the future to discuss our progress, and, of course, he's here to answer your questions later on. So I will now be focused on the job that I was originally recruited for, Chairman and CEO.  

In summary, I believe that we now have in place a firm foundation from which to build our business going forward. Our strategies are working. We will continue to effectively manage our portfolio brands and countries to capture the highest value opportunities. We will undoubtedly hit bumps in the road along the way. That's what happens when you operate in 200 countries. But our strategies and objectives remain the same. I believe that we have demonstrated our intent to lead the franchise with strength and capabilities in consumer marketing and customer and commercial leadership, and to take the right actions against a consistent focus on delivering superior long-term returns to our shareholders. Now let me turn the call over to Gary. Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, EVP, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville, and good morning, everyone. As you saw in the release we had a very good year in 2006 and it's a great base to start 2007. We reported earnings per share for the year increased 6% to $2.16. This included a net charge of $0.21 per share primarily related to a noncash impairment charge at CCE in the fourth quarter. After considering items impacting comparability in both years, earnings per share was $2.37 versus $2.17 in the prior year, a 9% increase. For the quarter, we reported EPS of $0.29 per share, which included a net charge of $0.23 per share, primarily related to the CCE impairment charge after considering comparability items EPS for the quarter increased 13%.  

In addition, our 2006 underlying effective tax rate on operations was 22.4% versus the previous estimate that I had given you of 23.5%, to bring the effective tax rate for the year in line with the current estimate we recorded income tax expense at a rate of approximately 18.2% in the fourth quarter which resulted in a tax benefit of about $0.03 per share for the quarter and the year. For the year, volume growth was 4% after considering factors impacting comparability and a 1% negative currency impact operating income growth was 8%, along with the ongoing EPS growth of 9%. All of those results at the top end of our long-term growth targets. For the year, we repurchased $2.5 billion of our stock, an increase of 24% over the prior year, and that added 2 points of growth to earnings per share for the year. Additionally, the Company paid $2.9 billion as dividends in 2006. In all, a total return of 23% for 2006. The fourth quarter was a strong finish to a very solid year of performance.  

Now, turning to 2007, let me address some of the factors that we see impacting our outlook. Our benchmark for success will continue to be our long-term growth targets, 3 to 4% volume growth, 6 to 8% ongoing currency-neutral operating income growth, and high single digit ongoing EPS growth. In addition, our initial read on the macro economic outlook for the year is relatively positive, especially in many of our emerging markets. We will continue to portfolio manage globally as we expect solid performance in most of our markets with weak performance in North America, particularly in the first half as we cycle strong volume and profit results. In Europe, while performance is improving we will face cycling to favorable weather through most of the second half 2007 and, of course, the World Cup. However, we have solid plans in place and we'll continue to focus on executing the fundamentals of the business.  

As with 2006, we would again expect our consolidated bottling operations to be a positive contributor as we focus on building world-class operations. Currently, we have not included the consolidation of the Philippines bottler in our plans. The Philippines bottler acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter. After the transaction is closed we will provide an update on our expectations for that business going forward.  

In terms of input cost in 2007, there's certainly unprecedented upward pressure. However, this is primarily in North America for juice and sweetener. Although we do expect to see an increase, we will continue to manage the overall impact on our business just as we did in 2006 through appropriate pricing and other strategies. We expect SG&A trends for 2007 to be similar to full-year 2006 results. We will continue to invest behind our brands and innovation initiatives. Additionally, selling and service expenses will increase as we invest for growth in our bottling operations as well as reflecting the impact of bottling operations we owned for only a partial part of the year in 2006.  

General and administrative expenses were tightly controlled in 2006, and we will continue our disciplined approach in 2007. We would expect net interest cost to increase primarily due to lower cash balances and higher debt balances. You will note that our net debt balance going into 2007 is approximately $2 billion, double the level from a year ago. We would expect that level to increase during the year due to share repurchase dividends and capital spending. Also keep in mind that we reduced our ownership position in Coca-Cola FEMSA and our Turkish bottler along with CCE's recent announcement on restructuring that will impact our equity income.  

With regard to taxes and as previously mentioned we ended up the year with an underlying effective rate of 22.4%. Our best estimate for 2007 is that the full-year underlying effective tax rate on operations will be about 23%. We anticipate that our range for share repurchase in 2007 will be between 2.5 and $3 billion. Now let me turn to currency. As we look into 2007 based on current spot rates and the anticipated benefits of hedging coverage in place, we currently expect very little impact from currency in 2007. We have begun to put coverage in place and are effectively covered through the first half of '07 on the euro and for the first quarter on the yen.  

From a CapEx standpoint, we purchased approximately 1.4 billion in property, plant, and equipment during 2006 for 2007 we expect that amount to increase to about 1.5 billion as we make investments in recently acquired bottling operations. Additionally early last month we finalized the payment for the remaining shares of CC AG, our German bottler, as part of the exercise of our put-call provision that we previously disclosed the total amount of that payment was approximately $1 billion. For quarterly modeling purposes, we will have one less shipping day in the first quarter and one more in the fourth quarter as compared to 2006.  

Before I close I wanted to touch on the comment -- a comment in the release and that Neville referred to about the new reporting segments. The Pacific and Eurasia. Beginning in the first quarter we will begin to report these geographically realigned operating segments. As we get closer to the first quarter release we will provide you with historical data on the new segments. That's it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning. Neville, Muhtar and I are now ready for your questions. Operator.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] In respect to the number of individuals with questions we request only one question per participant. Thank you. Your first question will come from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Neville or Gary, nice to see Japan improving in terms of the top line. Yet if you look at the whole region which it's a part of which it dominates in terms of profits, profits declined at an increasing rate there. I'm inclined to conclude -- it seems hard not to conclude that you really stepped up in spending in Japan in the quarter in terms of SG&A level there. Is that a reasonable conclusion, and if not can you talk to us a little about what's going on at the GP and SG&A line and the larger North Asia?  

GARY FAYARD: Mark, it it's Gary. What I would say first for that segment is to look more at really the full year. What you see is some swings in gallon shipments between the third quarter and the fourth quarter in Japan where gallons were kind of up in the third quarter and down in the fourth quarter, full year that kind of evens out, so it's kind of a quarterly spread within that region, particularly around Japan. So if you look at the full year I think you'll get a better picture of kind of what it really looks like.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: That's helpful. When you say gallon shipments down in the quarter in Japan, Gary, we got a 2 on the unit volume. What level of spread are we talking about versus that 2? Obviously it's at least 2, but what's the number? Can you give us an idea?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, hold on a minute, and I'll see if I can tell that you that.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: That would be great.  

GARY FAYARD: It's probably like a point.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: An added point. So call it down one versus up two?  

GARY FAYARD: No, like plus two versus plus one.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Got you. Okay. That's -- actually, I'm still wondering now in light of that. Doesn't seem like enough to explain what happened in North Asia.  

ANN TAYLOR: Mark, what I would suggest -- say that the full year Japan gallons in unit cases are in line so we are not in an inventory build or destock position in Japan, so I think that's really the important thing.  

GARY FAYARD: It's really a swing between quarters.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thank you, Ann, thanks, Gary.  

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Just a question regarding input costs going into '07. We're all pretty well aware of what's happening in North America, but when you look outside of what's happening here, can you talk a little bit about what the input cost inflation looks like for bottlers outside of North America, and then is that going to impact your plans in terms of maybe having to raise more prices in some of the developing markets and just the way you are going to go to market in '07 may be relative to the way you did in '06.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Very significant difference between North America and rest of world. First of all, one of the major input costs in North America is HFSS. We are using sugar largely in the rest of the world, and where we're not, HFSS prices are actually tied to sugar prices. Had you asked that question six months ago when sugar was at a high it would have been a different answer but it's come back right down to the level it was at prior year. In fact there may almost be a slight benefit with that. Then you have got to look at your mix in terms of packaging. PET costs are going to be lower because of new capacity that comes on, offsetting some of the increases in terms of some raw materials for PET. You then have a larger mix of glass and glass bottles as well, so cans are a much smaller piece. We don't see any major cost inflation that -- there are going to be pockets in one or two countries, but there's really no unusual increase that we see that are going to impact our overall volume in the international business.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. So relative to your view -- your pretty favorable macro view in the emerging market there's nothing -- it sounds like it's a pretty supportive cost environment as well.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes, it is.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Question on North America. Obviously a tough '07, the sparkling volume was down 3% in the fourth quarter so can you talk about both '07 and then even multiyear what is the system approach to more rapidly diversifying into still and accelerating the growth in the sparkling category, I guess both the challenges of '07 and then from a longer term perspective?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I'm going to hand part of this over to Muhtar, but let me make a headline comment. And the headline comment is that you know that we took some controversial action in order to be able to get our system better able to address the needs of the customer and the consumer, and what comes out of these things is some very good deep discussion about where the business is headed, Sandy Douglas has done a great job in terms of leading that, but Muhtar spent yesterday with the whole U.S. bottling system in terms of looking at '07 and how we move ahead as a team. I think you heard some of in that John Brock's call yesterday in terms of how the overall feeling as to how we work together has changed, but let me ask Muhtar to give you some more flavor.  

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT, COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes, Bill, hi, good morning.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Hi.  

MUHTAR KENT: There's no doubt 2007 will be a challenging year, with the cost increases that was referred to in the earlier question, but want to just reiterate that we remain excited about the long-term growth opportunities, and our system's ability together to capture that growth here in North America, and critically I think, you've got -- I want to stress that we are leaving behind confrontation and moving to a system that is good working relationship based on cooperation and collaboration with our entire bottling partners here in North America. And I think that's very important and critical, and whenever you see us aligned with our bottling system, I've always said, I'll reiterate, this system is unbeatable. And I think I can reiterate that, having spent the whole day with our U.S. bottling partners yesterday, in a meeting looking at how we capture those opportunities.  

I think, you'll see us -- the innovation is certainly going to be there, particularly in the second half, and we will be leading growth in sparkling beverages led by trademark Coca-Cola, delivering certainly also fastest value growth in still beverages, Fuse is an early proof point. It's not certainly the end of the game. Being the preferred partner for our customers is going to be a key element in how we improve that relationship and become the preferred partners to our customers is going to be key. Strong innovation across sparkling and still portfolio as well as immediate consumption packaging, you will see that certainly being a key element as we move into the second half, particularly, but the full year, of course, as you heard from John Brock, is going to be weak, and you will see a better second half than the first half.  

BILL PECORIELLO: If I could just follow-up with one question on the North America profits, will there be certain leverage that you pull to help offset the volume weakness in the cost pressure, or is it more of a portfolio approach and you rely more on the international and the cobo profits, recognizing North America profit is going to be down?  

MUHTAR KENT: Certainly you'll see us managing it on a portfolio basis but there will be a great amount of also attention being paid to the cost side to ensure that we can find the leverages where we can, but you are not going to see us cut back on spending on our brand.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: If I could add just one thing, Bill, there's an awful lot that happened last year that flows through. I have just one small proof point. My Coke rewards. We got 3.3 million registered users. We have given out about 1.5 million rewards. That's just one little piece of what's happening. You have seen the acceleration of Zero. Vault has been a successful launch. Zero, as I say has cycled positively its launch period. You are going to see that growing. So it's not as if we're not coming off a platform where we don't have some ammunition to come into a weak cost environment, but again, on the broader piece to reiterate what Muhtar said, really back to what we talked about six months ago with regard to Japan. We believe that we can meet the long-term objectives that we've given to you by balancing the overall poverty folio.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. As somewhat as a follow-up to the previous question I was hoping you could you talk a little bit more about the relationship you have now with your bottlers and your strategy regarding testing and potentially shifting to alternate routes to market. How will this impact how the bottlers distribute your brands and ultimately share in the profits?  

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I mean, the -- in terms of what you asked about alternative routes to market, that's certainly something we always are looking to see how we can improve our routes to market, the DSDsystem being the key to our success and our future but also how we can complement and supplement that, not as an alternative, but as a complement and a supplement and that's what you read about in the recent settlement. I think the key question here is that we, jointly with our bottlers, have established a very, very clear process to identify the new opportunities and to develop or acquire the brands or products needed to respond to these opportunities together. And I think that's the key important piece of the collaboration going forward, and as I said before, this is the basis of our franchise leadership. We have talked about how we need to ensure that we do the three things on our triangle extremely well, which is integrated consumer marketing, which is commercial and customer leadership and which is franchise leadership, and that is what we are talking about here is a key component of one of those three key pieces moving forward, which is franchise leadership.  

LAUREN TORRES: In markets so far where you are testing these alternate routes to market can you give us a sense of what the customers are saying?  

MUHTAR KENT: I don't think that we have any example where we have these alternative routes to market that we can give you examples off across the world. I think what you see here is certainly, because of the specialness of the U.S.A. market with foodservice, I think outside of the United States we use many different alternative routes to market but there isn't a single one that we can say this will be the model for the United States this is a test in how we move forward to find better ways to serve our customers.  

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. It looks as though after a tough couple of first quarters to start the year where the cash flow was down, and some of that I think was due to taxes, cash flow looks like it's been up the past couple of quarters, so, Gary, can you give us maybe a trajectory on cash flow for next year in terms of would we should look for?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, and first, John, just off the headline of your little release this morning, Happy Valentine's Day to you. On cash flow, I would say a couple of things. If you looked at -- let me talk about full year for a minute. Full year cash from operations is -- actually shows reported down versus 2005. If you look at the change or the -- look at working capital, it was a source of cash in 2005, and it was a use of cash in 2006. The swing was about 900 to $1 billion. That big use of cash from working capital in 2006 was really coming from three specific items. One was the tax -- cash taxes paid on repatriation of foreign earnings from '05 that we paid the taxes in '06. There was a piece where we funded a couple hundred million dollars into a VEBA for employee benefit plans, and it allowed us to accelerate some tax deductions. Then there was $100 million donation in the fourth quarter to the Coca-Cola Foundation.  

Those items actually were kind of discrete items, if you will. If you eliminated those you would see that '06 cash flow actually was a pretty good significant increase versus '05. I would expect to see '07 increase, if you will, off of a normalized '06 as well, and then if you -- off of a reported '06 I would expect cash flow to increase significantly. That may be too much detail. Does that answer the question?  

JOHN FAUCHER: Yes, it does. Thanks.  

GARY FAYARD: Great, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. A question on acquisitions, if I could. In '06 we saw acquisitions of Apollinaris and Multon in Russia. I'm wondering if you can put into perspective your recently acquired Latin America juice company as well as Fuse beverage and talk about perhaps the incremental expectations from acquisitions in '07 as well as the opportunities of what you see around the world in the categories that you seek to expand in.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, first of all, just want to highlight technically, of course, we haven't closed the Mexican acquisition yet. That's -- there are regulatory pieces to go through, just to make that point. But, Christine, I've continually said that bolt-on acquisitions are the way that we are going to go, and we will be opportunistic about that. By the way, you could add the Traficante acquisition in Italy to that with regard to water in Europe, and I think you are going to see it in the juice and in the water arena primarily. Water as a key platform.  

Major acquisitions are very difficult from a regulatory standpoint given what they call the portfolio effect theory, certainly in the likes of Europe, so they are going to have to be bolt-on acquisitions. Again, when you come to water, because primarily we are talking sourced water. Sourced water by its own nature is geographically specific. Therefore, there will be country by country, which is what you have seen. We'll continue to look at juice, as I say, and I would see it being -- although we have nothing major in the pipeline at the moment, it's probably going to be around the same sort of level in '07 as '06, as we reinforce our business in key countries. Our bottlers are now aligned with us in terms of a model that works. Muhtar, I don't know if you'd like to comment on that, because I think that's a very important piece going forward, particularly where we are with the likes of CCHBC and with FEMSA.  

MUHTAR KENT: I just want to add that essentially what we are not doing certainly is to try -- is in any way or form trying to replace organic growth with our acquisitions. What we focus on religiously is organic growth, and wherever there's an opportunity we will have a bolt-on acquisition where we are -- where you will see us doing those in harmony and in complete collaboration with our bottling partners. That's the key principle going forward. On the models, certainly you will see us testing models that really work and enhance our relationship in those categories that actually lend themselves to those models with our bottlers. Juice certainly is one of those. And you will see us -- you will see those models emerging as we move into 2007.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: That's great. Thank you. And just as a clarification, how much did the warehouse water decline hurt your North American volumes in the quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: About 1%. Or less than 1%.  

MUHTAR KENT: You'll see 2000 -- the first half of 2007 still being impacted by that, but as we will transition out of that into the second half of 2007.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Great. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning. Muhtar, last quarter you indicated on this call that traditional methods of charging for noncarbs were not applicable, and that more comprehensive partnerships were needed. With the U.S. now under your belt, does your view of comprehensive partnerships also stand for the U.S.?  

MUHTAR KENT: The critical piece here, Carlos, is to ensure that we have an equitable model in our franchise relationship that we see for whatever category we are talking about, the common vision, and we have transparency on how we share the value. I think that's the key piece. Emerging out of that, then, will be maybe some new models where applicable. I can't tell you specifically how that that will evolve in North America right now. All I can tell you is that certainly you will see examples of this emerging around the world that will benefit and that will be beneficial both to us and our bottling partners, on a win-win basis.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Carlos, just to add to that, don't forget, you've got a different structure in North America in terms of what we used to call fountain foodservice. So that actually changes the way that you go to market with some of that. Also, if you look at what we're doing with Fuse, what we've done with Odwalla, we see Fuse, of course, it goes to 20 bottlers already, expanding through the bottler system, but we're going to manage that as a discrete unit in order to be able to keep the entrepreneurial capacities of those people available to us, and again, that fits in entirely with what Muhtar is saying as we move in a way sometimes even experimental models in order to move the business forward.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Question about Latin America. It seems to have driven about half of your operating profit growth in 2006 and a lot of it came from especially strong price mix. Could you maybe comment on the sources of where the price mix is coming from and as to what extent that's sustainable in 2007 and beyond?  

MUHTAR KENT: Robert, good morning. I do not think that there's anything very specific. It's much more wide-based, and it's not only a question of price, but also mix of -- and our ability to execute with our customers in terms of revenue growth management and all the systems that we have got in place and the information that we are using in order to ensure that we leverage right execution daily across all the way from the south of the continent to the north, and you will see that there's some mix in packaging, and IC as we invest in cold -- continue to invest heavily in cold drink, and continue to leverage the first moment of truth in all our customers across Latin America.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: And next year, or in 2007, you will have the--?  

MUHTAR KENT: I expect that you wouldn't see anything different from what we have been doing in '06 -- '05 and '06.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: But, Robert, you will see right execution daily. You will see RGM rolling out and the benefits of that in terms of the value equation in the rest of the world as well as we move forward. I have talked about innovation not just being product and package but being much more wide ranging. And this is part of what we believe is real innovation and is strategic advantage. You have seen it working in Latin America, and we will roll it out elsewhere. It is also part -- if you listened to my prepared remarks, I kept using the word value. Value opportunities. So it is that mix, and we have got that mix very well balanced in Latin America, and we'll continue to do that there but also to roll it out around the rest of the world.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.  

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, operator. Hi, everybody. In some of these key growth regions, particularly Russia and China, can you talk about a little bit, how much your growth is coming from ready to drink gaining share from the entire beverage category versus yourselves gaining share versus other branded companies?  

MUHTAR KENT: I think it's a mix of both. There's certainly a Fuse opportunity, particularly in a place like China as urbanization takes foot. There's a conversion factor that benefits us certainly, because the current ready to drink component of total beverage consumption is still very low, in the 30s, 30%, in Russia it's slightly higher but there's also a significant conversion happening there but also from other beverages as society changes, less consumption of -- some shift from alcoholic beverages also taking place in Russia. But then in addition to that, of course, we're certainly gaining share also in those markets in the current ready to drink category, too.  

KAUMIL GAJRAWALA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.  

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi. One segment where you didn't gain share globally last year was ready to drink coffee and tea, and I guess some of that is because of the weakness in Georgia coffee in Japan but can you also talk about just broadly what you're doing to improve your performance in that segment especially in markets like North America where you have been lagging competition?  

MUHTAR KENT: Certainly we see that as a key opportunity going forward. You have seen Gold Peak, you have heard about Caribou in North America but across the world I would just say that certainly that's an area of opportunity for us, and you will see us being focused in that ready to drink tea, which is a much bigger segment, but also ready to drink coffee, which is a high-value segment. The Godiva, you have heard about in the United States, and you will see us certainly, as you rightly also said, that part of the weakness was from in the initial part of the year, particularly from Georgia coffee. You see the six core Georgia products in the quarter that we have just left behind accounting for more than half of the total segment grew double digits in Japan. So certainly as we ramp up our efforts in Japan, as well as across the world in both ready to drink coffee and also under the Nestea trademark, with our partnership with Nestle you will see us capturing some of those opportunities across the world both in Europe, Asia, as well as North America.  

JUDY HONG: But is this really more of a multiyear opportunity in terms of having more impactful presence in that segment?  

MUHTAR KENT: It's certainly not a single-year opportunity. It is long-term. You will see us looking at the entire category of tea as a carrier for functional benefits also, but also certainly expanding our footprint in ready to drink coffee across the world is an important opportunity.  

JUDY HONG: Okay, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Riley with Morningstar.  

MATT RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. I was hoping you might be able to provide a bit more background regarding what's gone right in Germany as far as stabilization of the market is concerned, and what learnings might be applicable to other struggling operations where a bottler consolidation is an option.  

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, I mean, Germany certainly after a number of years of struggling, you have seen us returning good volume results in Germany. There's been a very successful launch of certainly Coke Zero, very very good benefits that we have been able to extract from the World Cup activation in Germany, focus on immediate consumption, and revenue growth management, so we're actually capturing more value than volume but also looking at capturing volume as we move forward and the new bottler management there, we haven't been focused on execution. So as we move forward as we fully integrate our total German system, you will us leveraging that opportunity and the whole system is working together very effectively in Germany as we move into the full year of 2007.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I want to add to that because obviously I have lived in Germany for awhile and have worked through this whole issue with the bottlers. I referred to this earlier in terms of franchise leadership. Taking the tough decision to restructure that business and you get obviously for a period of time a situation where you are not firing on all cylinders in the marketplace. But was the right thing to do for the long term. We are willing to take that short term pain. That's what you have seen.  

Now what you have seen is that even though we haven't quite finalized the formal agreements, that the system has now recognized that the one bottler system is the way to go, they have seen the cost benefits, because we're a very high cost system that will allow us to be much more competitive, and that, therefore, we're actually working as if that whole one bottle system had actually come into being. So this is what franchise leadership is all about, this is what modernizing our system is all about. And this is where we manage then to work together to move effectively into the marketplace.  

I go back to earlier comments that Muhtar made. When the system gets together, as they are now in Germany, as they now are in the United States, we are unbeatable.  

Thank you very much. We have come to the end, and I'd like to thank each of you for joining us this morning. We clearly have a solid 2006 in the books, and 2007 is underway with our organization more than ever engaged in driving innovation, in improving our speed to market, and maintaining our outward focus on our consumers, our customers, our bottling partners, and our broader community. I'm confident that our strategies are working, and that our actions are going to create long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders. That is what we are all focused on, and that is what we will work hard to do, Muhtar and I, Gary, the rest of the team, every single day. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Coca-Cola Company's fourth quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070221e32e000rv
  


 HD
 Q3  2006 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,729 words
   PD
19 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Judy and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2006 earnings results conference call.  

All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Due to the interest in this call, we request a limit of one question per person.  

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants could contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.  

I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations  

ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today.  

I am pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, Muhtar Kent, President of our International Operations, and Sandy Douglas, President of our North America Operating Group. Following prepared remarks by Neville and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.  

In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our Company's Web site at thecococolacompany.com in the Investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principals to certain non-GAAP measures, which may be referred to by senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our Web site for this information.  

Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone.  

As usual I'm just going to make a few observations about the quarterly results and then Gary's going to follow with his usual overview of financials and some additional perspective on 2006 which should, we believe, give you plenty of time for your questions.  

I'm pleased to report that we delivered another solid quarter. In the quarter top line volume growth of 5% resulted in ongoing operating income growth of 8%, including a slight currency benefit. Our performance was driven by balance growth across our international geographies, a continued systemwide focus on execution and, of course, on innovation, and effective marketing programs that are increasingly connecting with our consumers.  

On a year-to-date basis then, ongoing currency neutral operating income increased 7% and ongoing EPS grew 8%, both within our long-term growth model. And that was even as we continued to make solid investments in our marketing.  

From a top line perspective, I'm particularly pleased with three important factors. First, we again demonstrated our ability to deliver consistent volume growth on a year-over-year basis.  

We cycled 5% growth in the prior year, something that I know you've all raised as an issue. Can we cycle the third quarter [inaudible] last year and our two-year run rate continues to be a hit of our long-term growth target.  

Second, we achieved balance growth across categories with 5% growth in carbonated beverages, our highest growth rate for carbonated beverages in more than 5 years. And 5% growth in noncarbonated beverages.  

Trademark Coca-Cola grew 3% accelerating on the 2% growth in the prior year. Sprite delivered 11% international growth and 6% worldwide and Fanta grew 7%. As a result, these core brands contributed more than half of the growth in the quarter and we gained share in carbonated soft drinks globally.  

In noncarbonated beverages, we continue to expand our presence cycling strong double-digit growth in the prior year with solid performance in water, ready to drink juice, and sports drinks. However, we are not satisfied with our share performance in noncarbs.  

Expanding our presence in ready-to-drink tea and coffee continue as a significant opportunity and neither we nor Nestle are happy with the progress that we have made in this area. Now you're starting to see signs of progress, including the recent relaunch of Nestea in the U.S., the introductions of Enviga and Gold Peak in North America, but there's clearly more that we can do.  

Finally, our results continue to benefit from the geographic diversity of our business. Our international operations delivered 7% growth as four of our five international groups achieved mid single-digit or better volume growth.  

The quarter was led by strong volume growth in key emerging markets in Latin America, central and eastern Europe, and many parts of Asia and Africa even as they lapped solid results in the prior year. Volume increased 11% in markets with per capita consumption less than 150. It's a statistic that I love giving to you because this is where a great deal of our long-term growth comes from.  

Now these results more than offset the volume declines in the Philippines, in Japan, and North America. In addition and equally encouraging is the strength of some of our more developed markets. I'd like to just take a moment now just highlight two groups that I'm particularly encouraged by.  

In Latin America we delivered another outstanding quarter. Strong core brands, marketing programs, World Cup included. The focus on noncarb opportunities and world-class bottler execution led to 7% volume growth, lapping a prior year growth rate of 5%.  

In Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina, trademarks Coke, Sprite, and Fanta grew 7, 9 and 10% respectively as we gained carbonated soft drink share in Latin America.  

We gained traction with noncarbonated beverages in many markets. Noncarbonated beverages in Latin America grew double-digits and represented over 20% of the Company's total noncarb growth for the quarter.  

Secondly, I continue to be pleased with the progress we're making in Europe where volume grew 10% in the quarter. Now, we clearly did benefit from favorable weather for most of the quarter but we also are delivering on the strategies and the priorities outlined on our earnings call a year ago and we are gaining momentum.  

Spain and central Europe continued their solid performance and our actions in northwest Europe and Germany gained traction. The performance is a result of strong execution of our key marketing programs in alignment with our bottling partners as we drove growth in CSDs and accelerated our position in noncarbs.  

Europe successfully activated our World Cup marketing program as, in fact, did over 100 markets globally. As the World Cup closed, we started launching Coca-Cola Zero in Great Britain, Germany, and Spain.  

For Coke Zero in Britain early results are really positive. Let me just give you some data.  

Growing household and impulse penetration in the 16 weeks since the launch has resulted in our share of colas increasing by over 3 percentage points versus the prior year, and our primary competitor share fell by almost 3 percentage points. In other words, a 6 point swing. Six percentage point swing.  

Strong repeat purchase on lower than expected cannibalization demonstrates to us that our innovative three cola strategy will be successful in these markets. Therefore, in addition, we're going to be launching Coca-Cola Zero in Belgium and Nordics during the fourth quarter, something that we had not originally budgeted.  

Europe has also made good progress in expanding beyond carbonated soft drinks. Now while they only account for 13% growth of the volume, nonCSPs contributed 51% of total growth.  

We completed two strategic acquisitions in the quarter. The Apollinaris source water brand in Germany, queen of table waters, and the Traficante source waters in Italy. Now that combined added 3 points of growth to the quarter. So organically there was a 7% growth.  

Additionally, we continue to innovate and expand the presence of our Aquarius, POWERADE and Burn trademarks across the group. So you can see that we are continuing to turn the corner in Europe.  

But now let me discuss what are probably going to be your two top questions: Performance in Japan, and North America. We've started the recovery process in Japan and we've delivered on our commitment of sequential volume growth improvement versus the second quarter. Weakness in core brands and softness in the overall soft drink category continue to impact our results.  

Now while our overall share continued to decline, we did gain share in carbonated soft drinks and, importantly, in ready to drink coffee. The Georgia Coffee relaunch continued to be on track resulting in a slight volume improvement versus the prior quarter and a gain in category share. The new marketing campaign has been well received as our consumer tracking shows improvements in brand awareness, ad awareness, and purchase intent.  

And additionally, just one small proof point, but the TV spot supporting the campaign was recognized by Independent Consumer Research as the top spot in Japan in August.  

In the fourth quarter, we're going to have new flavor launches under Fanta and Georgia Coffee including a four promotional campaign. And under Trademark Coke we're going to continue to focus on Diet Coke.  

We introduced Cherry Coke during holiday season as well Coca-Cola promotional efforts in focused key channels to maximize home consumption during the winter season. The Japan team is aggressively addressing the issues and is focused on executing the strategies required to drive the long-term health of the business. I'd like to reiterate that we continue sequential improvement and we will see that in the fourth quarter, though the results will remain weak.  

Let's turn now to North America. While there was certainly positives in the quarter, overall, once again I'm not satisfied with our performance. North American unit case volume was down 1% in the quarter lapping a 3% growth in the prior year.  

Volume results were certainly impacted by a weakening of the CSD category in September and by several strategic choices that we made to improve long-term profitability.  

So let me take the positive side first. We continue leadership in carbonated soft drinks and we actually gained share in what is, as you all know, a challenging environment.  

Of course, the near-term cost environment is also likely to put pressure on category volumes as we go forward. However, and I'm being consistent on this, we continue to see significant opportunity in carbonated beverages as broadly defined. This is going to require us to continually innovate and redefine carbonated beverages and deliver the right level of execution.  

We also began to refocus our resources behind the more profitable Dasani business. So if you exclude the impact of warehouse water, North America unit case growth would actually have been flat with the prior quarter. In other words, the volume impact of that on the water side, but actually there was a minimal profit impact as we move to more profitable Dasani.  

In juices, we also announced our third price increase in our premium chilled orange juice to offset what are significant cost increases in orange juice solids and volume was obviously negatively impacted. And what we're doing here is continuing to take actions to enhance the value proposition of juices to our consumers.  

It's important to note, though, that we gained volume and value share in the quarter and that was driven by strong performance in the premium trademark Simply and the products under that trademark. Therefore we continue to focus on profitability, accelerating our presence in noncarbonated beverage categories with particular focus on the tea category at the moment and you'll see that again in the fourth quarter.  

And as I mentioned earlier, that includes the relaunch and repackaging of Nestea, the introduction of Gold Peak, our premium brewed tea. Trademark POWERADE grew in mid single-digits and that was cycling over 30% growth in the prior year.  

Now while I'm not satisfied with the quarter in North America, Sandy, in his first 30 days on the job, [as] we have focused on assessing our brand, category, and customer marketing plus working with our bottler partners to focus efforts on capturing the opportunities that we believe are there for long-term growth and profit for the system. Sandy's long experience and successful experience in North America and his leadership of our customer organization globally, in my view, make him uniquely qualified to drive our efforts forward and we have seen a seamless transition from Don to Sandy.  

In summary, overall, I'm very pleased with our top and bottom line performance. We continue to effectively manage our portfolio brands and our portfolio countries to deliver results in line with our growth targets. I'm confident we're taking the necessary actions to create sustainable growth and value for the benefits of our shareowners and other stakeholders.  

Now let me just turn you over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville, and good morning.  

As you saw on the release we reported earnings per share of $0.62 in the quarter, an increase of 15%. On a year-to-date basis reported earnings per share of $1.87, which represents an increase of 12%.  

Our quarterly results included a couple of items that impact the comparability that essentially offset each other in the quarter. We had some charges related to asset impairments and restructuring which were primarily offset by the benefits that we had from a reversal of a tax valuation allowance. Therefore, there's no difference between reported and adjusted or comparable earnings per share for the quarter.  

After considering items impacting comparability in both years, earnings per share increased 9% in the quarter and 8% year-to-date. In addition, we have lowered our expected underlying effective tax rate on operations for 2006 and for 2007 to 23.5% or 24%, which provided a $0.01 per share benefit in the quarter and I'll touch a little bit more on that in a minute.  

At the net revenue line for the quarter, we reported revenues up 7% versus the prior year. There were a few items that specifically impacted that number. Structural change negatively impacted revenues by 2%, primarily due to the transfer in Spain of canning rights to the bottlers, and we've discussed that in the past and as a reminder, there's no profit impact from that change.  

So excluding structural changes, revenues in the quarter grew 9%. Pricing and mix was 4%, driven by solid pricing environment across many of our key markets, in particular Latin America, and improved performance in our bottling investment group.  

We grew operating income by 11% on a reported basis for the third quarter. We also had some items impacting comparability in the current and prior year quarter. So after considering these impacts, operating income increased 8%, which included a slight positive impact from currency.  

SG&A increased 12% in the quarter, which is higher than our run rate in the first half of the year. So let me take a minute to walk you through what contributed to that increase.  

About half of the increase is due to structural change, in acquisitions, the cycling of lower expenses in the prior year and currency, each of those contributing about two points to the growth. First, as expected we saw higher expenses in the bottling investments group, including the impact of acquisitions as we continue to invest behind sales and service.  

Second, we cycled lower stock option expense and some various small gains on the sales of land in the prior year. And lastly, currency increased SG&A by 2%. Driving a significant portion of the remaining growth was continued solid investment behind our core operations as marketing expenses grew at a rate similar to our top line.  

Now with regards to cash flow in the quarter, you will see a decline in cash from operations driven by an increase in working capital on a year-over-year basis. This is caused by the same key items that we discussed in the first two quarters, which we relate to settlement of marketing accruals and timing of marketing payments and cash tax payments related to repatriation of foreign earnings from last year. And as you'll see, these relate to timing of expenses rather than changes in the fundamental working capital structure of our operations.  

Let me address a couple other factors that we see impacting our outlook for the remainder of this year. During the second quarter earnings call, we stated that there was a $0.02 per share benefit from gallons timing that we received in the quarter and that that benefit would reverse in the second half of 2006. We see one penny of that gallons timing reversing in the third quarter and expect the additional penny to reverse in the fourth quarter.  

On share repurchase, as a result of the number of recent and potential acquisition activities we were conservative and refrained from actively repurchasing shares during the majority of the quarter. We currently intend that our range for share repurchase in 2006 will remain between 2 and $2.5 billion. For input cost, we continue to see upward pressure, but we are actively managing those pressures.  

Now on taxes, I mentioned earlier we anticipate that our underlying effective tax rate for the full-year 2006 and 2007 will be approximately 23.5%. The tax rate for the quarter was slightly lower than this revised underlying effective rate due to two reasons.  

One there's a catch-up to bringing the effective tax rate for the first nine months in line with our new lower full-year estimate. Recall that we've previously anticipated and applied an underlying effective tax rate of 24% through the first half of 2006.  

And secondly, we have a one-time net tax benefit of approximately $41 million, due primarily to a reduction of a valuation allowance on our U.S. capital loss carry forwards. This is associated with our fulfillment of a 2003 agreement with FEMSA which allows them to regain a majority ownership in Coca-Cola FEMSA as they were diluted to a minority stake as a result of the Panamco acquisition.  

The planned sale which will impact the fourth quarter will result in a gain and on that gain as opposed to what some other companies would want you to do, I would suggest that you treat it as a non-recurring item and exclude it from ongoing earnings.  

Now let me move to currency. On a comparable basis, currencies had only a slight positive impact on our operating income for the quarter. Year-to-date it's been a 1% drag.  

We have put coverage in place and are effectively covered through the fourth quarter of 2006 on most key currencies, but based on current spot rates and the expected impact of the coverage in place, we expect currencies to have a slight negative impact to operating income in the fourth quarter and a 1% negative impact for the full-year 2006 and that includes the impact of the first nine months. This is slightly more pessimistic on the impact in the fourth quarter than I gave you at the last earnings call as the yen and the rand remained weak.  

In closing, and as we outlined in the release, with the progress to date and the pipeline we have in place, we believe that we are taking the necessary actions to create long-term sustainable growth and value for our shareholders.  

That's it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning. Neville, Muhtar, Sandy, and I are now ready for your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your first question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS & COMPANY: Thanks operator, good morning, everyone.  

Gary or Neville, simply fact question for you. Year-to-date marketing spend. If you look at that on a per case basis, can you give us the rate of growth there?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Mark, it's 10%.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: 10% on a per case?  

GARY FAYARD: Oh, I'm sorry, per case, no. Year-over-year it's about 10%.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Okay. Then we can adjust for the case.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: You can adjust it for the case as well.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: That's very helpful. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: But you know, I think as I said in my earlier remarks, Mark, we believe we're getting traction out of the spend. And I think if you want to go back to really the question about the $400 million, I think you see it's certainly in the international results as to how that is now working for us. And again, you see that positively on the revenue line which, marketing is essentially up at the same level as revenue overall.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Yes. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC SECURITIES: Good morning.  

Two markets that you really didn't touch upon were India and the Philippines. I was hoping you'd just give us an update for what you're seeing there, if we see an improvement. Structurally any changes? Anything you could add there would be great.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay. Muhtar, do you want to help her?  

MUHTAR KENT, PRESIDENT INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes. Good morning.  

On India despite the issues around the pesticide issue, we grew our unit cases in India 4% in the quarter and that was actually the first growth we've had in India for the last eight quarters consecutively, despite all the issues around that matter. I think we need, you know, we're still cautious about our results in India, but we're working our imaging programs in India, marketing programs are really working. And I think you can see that from the results.  

As far as the Philippines is concerned, we're still in discussions with [inaudible] and we basically see the business continue to be challenged at the moment. But we're working very hard to try to resolve the issues with our partner.  

LAUREN TORRES: Do you have a time line as far as discussions are concerned?  

MUHTAR KENT: As soon as feasible.  

LAUREN TORRES: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning.  

Just a question on new products. What contribution to your volume growth rate in the quarter came from new products introduced this year?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I actually don't have that one right off the top. We're going to have to come back to you. It varies obviously by geography.  

Where we have put those new products in, you would see all of the growth that's in Australia would have come out really of what new products you would see a major amount of the turnaround in the U.K. out of new products. We've also, of course, got acquisitions in there, that would be about seven-tenths of 1%. We actually don't break that out normally in terms of giving that breakout.  

Let me just go back. If you look at core brand, if you look at what you call here, Coca-Cola Classic, you're looking at a 3% growth off that base. So I think the -- I've always said job one is to regenerate growth with the brands that we have and that we would be able to do that.  

That's not true across every geography. And I refer to some of the geographic splits. We have proven to be able to do that. So that is against the marketing, that's against the new campaign.  

That's against bringing in the increased intellectual capital with better people, et cetera. You see it with Fanta and you see it with Sprite.  

Within that, of course, there are some new flavors, et cetera, but the innovation is not at this point in time the key driver. That is still down the line and I think that's '07, '08 as you see that coming.  

You see the early pieces of that as I mentioned with tea in North America, as you look at Gold Peak, relaunch of Nestea, you see the launch of Enviga. You know it's the tip of the iceberg now coming through. So we're maintaining our ongoing volume targets.  

I think the encouraging thing is that job one is working pretty well, which is the reinvestment behind the core and the growth of that. Now, does that mean there is not a pipeline of launches out there? No, I mean you've seen the innovation around the Odwalla trademark, you've seen the extension of the Simply brand in juice, you've seen now what we've done with Godiva and, of course, with the other brands that I've mentioned.  

So there's a lot going out there, we're running out Aquarius across Europe after great success in Spain. I mentioned Burn in my early remarks across Europe. That is not high volumetrically but it's high from a profit standpoint. So that mix is taking place.  

And again, when we talk about innovation, you know, I want to look at it in two ways because some of the innovation is not going to show up on the volume charts and Burn would be a particular example. Full Throttle would be another example where you actually see it in terms of overall margins and overall profitability.  

So some of these innovations are not -- a raw comparison of what's the percentage in volume terms is probably is not a good one and we certainly wouldn't want to give away the profit ones, as well.  

Sandy, I don't know if you want to say something about Vault and Energy in North America but I think you're pretty encouraged with the early results on Vault.  

SANDY DOUGLAS, PRESIDENT NORTH AMERICA OPERATING GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes, Neville. I think the results of Vault, particularly in immediate consumption, have been very strong and we continue to build momentum with that brand. Energy year-to-date is growing share around Full Throttle, Tab Energy, and yet we have tremendous plans going forward for new products in the energy area.  

So you mentioned the momentum was simply in Odwalla and then, of course, the year-over-year momentum with Coke Zero where we still have a lot more to do in terms of marketing and executing Coke Zero, but as we lapped the introduction we have good growth in the quarter of about 30%.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: So Neville, your progress on loading the innovation pipeline, do you feel like you're pretty much on track with what you'd laid out a year ago?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes, I am. And the proof point that we have with regard to that is what's in the pipeline.  

We have an innovation lab here which we bring customers into so that they can see what we're doing and what we're working on. It's part of this collaborative customer model that Sandy actually put in place in his old job where we involve our customers at an earlier stage in terms of what we're bringing down the pipeline on a confidential basis.  

And you know, they'll agree to come, they'll say, well, we can spend an hour and a half and they spend four hours, and that's where we open up the window as to what's coming down the pipeline. And I'd also refer to a day that we spent with our top to top bottlers about three weeks ago and each of them, as they went through the summary said, you know, this is the best meeting that we've had. We are very encouraged with what you have coming down the pipeline.  

The issue, of course, is that some of these innovations, because are value-added. Some of them along the line are going to involve health claims. That's going to need FDA approval.  

But, you know, I say it, I'm here for the long-term, I'm managing for the long-term so some of these are out in '08 and '09. This is not something where we can get instant gratification, I'm afraid, but I'm confident that the pipeline's being built the way that I outlined it.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marc Greenberg with Deutsche Bank.  

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Thanks. Good morning.  

My question relates to Japan. I'm hoping you might be able to offer some insights with regards to the system and portfolio capabilities, ability to offset any risk that you see in change on consumer buying patterns.  

In other words, have you thought about whether or not the consumer's fundamentally shifted away from ready-to-drink coffee given the ongoing category weakness and what impact growth in Starbucks and the like are having on that important profit business for Coke?  

MUHTAR KENT: This is Muhtar. I'll just try to reflect on that.  

We think that there's a totally different consumer that is actually buying, the going out to the Starbucks type, the chilled cup coffee versus the canned coffee that is a very, very difficult business that is driven by vending and driven by a different kind of consumer. The profiles of the consumers are different.  

While that doesn't mean that there's not going to be future success for that Starbucks-type chilled cup coffee, which there are many other products out in the marketplace and is a growing segment, but we feel that there is certainly a very different consumer and also as far as that segment, the canned coffee segment is concerned, you're talking about roughly 8 to 10 million transactions per day, which currently and it is done through convenience stores, done through vending machines, primarily.  

So we don't see that that is something necessarily that will take away, but it will be complementary. That's how we see it.  

As far as that doesn't mean that there's no opportunities, and we are certainly looking at that opportunity very, very seriously in terms of what that can give to our business also going into the future. But we don't see that as a threat to that very large canned coffee market in Japan.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: And I think the results that we outlined just broadly in the terms of the growth that we're getting back into Georgia underpin that. But let me just talk broadly in the coffee category. We think there are exciting margin opportunities there. That is obviously what's happening with regard to Starbucks.  

You see us with our test with Far Coast in Canada very early days. You know, we're exploring. This is, again, not going to show up on the charts in a hurry. But that gives us new ways to test, new ways to test flavors in different markets, flavor combinations with coffee, and you'll see that rolling out in our Norways, Singapore, et cetera.  

So there's a great, again, if you go back to the earlier question about innovation. That's an area where we're innovating. And we think chilled coffee in Japan through the convenience channel is going to be an additional opportunity for us but without obsoleting the existing pack and the existing formulations that we have. And again, to be repetitive, but I think it's important to say this, that turnaround is very much on track.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning. A question for Neville or Sandy.  

Looking at North America, with revenues up 4% and profits down 7% and given your discussion about the focus on more profitable water, can you just talk through a little bit about how your mix was negative if warehouse water volumes were down? Talk a little bit about the magnitude of the input cost in the quarter.  

And then in perspective, what drove the 4% favorable price mix on a global basis when country mix seems still a bit negative? Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think there's a global question here. Gary why don't you start with that?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, there are a can a couple of things that I would say. Let me start with North America.  

If you look at year-to-date North America's actually had a very good year-to-date. And you see that gallons were actually ahead of cases in the first half of the year, which we highlighted in the second quarter call. That started reversing in the third quarter and that's what you're actually seeing a lot of what happened at a high level in North America where gallons were actually down, too, in the quarter.  

We do have higher input costs, we're managing that. And we are optimistic, particularly because where we've got the premium high end of the market, particularly in juice, where there's been a lot of pressure on input costs where we've got the Simply trademark and Odwalla we've actually continued to see growth there and really offsetting the input cost. So while there is pressure there, I think we are effectively managing that.  

And lastly on North America, we purposely and had actually planned all along in this quarter to start changing out some of our water plants and switching those over to the Dasani brand, which drives higher profitability. It had an impact on volume but very little impact on profit for the quarter.  

If I look then globally at what happened price mix, as I said, if you go to revenue, revenue was 9% comparable without structural change. Price mix of that 9% was actually 4 points. And of that bottling investments group while their margin percentages are lower, and it can have some impact on the margin, bottling investments actually contributed 2 points of that 4 points price mix growth and that's where we're seeing significant improvement from the bottlers, the CBOs that we own.  

And I'm happy that we also got 2 points of pricing in the core business as well, which is in line with what we've said our long-term earnings model is. And we're getting that, if you look at the mix of our volume in the quarter, you had Latin America, obviously doing very well, but you also had very good volume results and profit results coming from Europe, which is a high-profit market and therefore overall results were very good.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Okay.  

That really makes sense globally. And again, just touching on North America then the negative product mix was driven by water even though the wholesale volumes were down?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Robert van Brugge with Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Yes, good morning. Question for Gary.  

It looks like you spent about $500 million on the acquisitions in the quarter. Did that have any impact on the operating profit growth numbers?  

GARY FAYARD: Robert, very little negligible impact. It obviously did on volumes but in this quarter negligible impact on operating income.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your next question comes from Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Good morning.  

Muhtar, can you speak to progress and challenges for reaching noncarb deals in Latin America? And specifically, do incidence rates work for noncarbs? And why or why not?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Could you repeat the second part of your question?  

MUHTAR KENT: The second part of the question, Carlos, was that incidents work for noncarbs? Is that what you said?  

CARLOS LABOY: Can you speak to progress and challenges for reaching noncarb deals in Latin America and do incidence rates work for noncarbs? Why or why not?  

MUHTAR KENT: Yes. Well, first let me say this. As far as noncarb deals in Latin America is clearly growing, having a balanced growth, both driving our CSD portfolio as well as looking at every opportunity in the nonalcoholic beverage category and noncarbs is clearly our priority in Latin America.  

So if we see opportunities in Latin America that work for us on a regional basis, on a country basis we will certainly go after them. And therefore, you know, we look upon the whole area of opportunities across Latin America in noncarbs in both driving them organically, but also any other acquisitions that could work for us on a country-by-country basis.  

Now, as far as the noncarb business model is concerned, we are in discussions with our bottling partners in Latin America to reach a mutual win-win model, a business model that works, that drives volume and sustains profitability across Latin America for noncarbs. And I was just down there last week meeting with all our Latin American bottlers and I'm very excited with the opportunities in that area.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: But specifically with regard to incidence, Muhtar?  

MUHTAR KENT: With regard to incidence, I believe that you need a more all-encompassing business model around noncarbs that works, that drives a win-win model for both us and our bottling partners and I'm very excited by the prospects of that.  

And I just want to add maybe here, that we reached a forward-looking agreement that demonstrates our solid and constructive relationship with our bottling partner, FEMSA. This agreement underscores our mutual understanding for value creation alternatives from a potentially larger revenue pool.  

And I think we're -- I'm very happy to note that both of our companies are aware of the growth opportunities, agree on the growth opportunities that exist in the carbs as well as the noncarbs business, and we will pursue these opportunities to fulfill our growth objectives for both of our shareholders. So I'm excited by that prospect also. I just want to say at this moment, Carlos.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Carlos, obviously we're somewhat inhibited in that FEMSA still have to make their results announcements but I encourage you to follow-up with FEMSA and I think you'll get some more granularity. This is of course, across Latin America, but I think you'll get some more granularity to the agreements we have and how we're going to move forward very effectively with them within the next couple of weeks.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of William Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

WILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone.  

My question, can you talk about the cash flow impact looking out towards '07 from some of the bottling businesses that you've already announced you'll be acquiring or in the works of in terms of the cash to acquire as well as the capital to acquire to run the business say, China, Philippines, Philadelphia, you also have the billion dollar payment to Germany growing next year.  

So what are the cash flow impacts? Any impact you see on the repo program looking out to '07 as a result of any of that?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Bill, relative to the acquisitions, and let me just, let me categorize those as carry beverages in China, Philadelphia, and Germany. While we and San Miguel have made some references in the Philippines to having some discussions, there are no definitive agreements there so I really cannot comment on that.  

First on Philadelphia, we actually have entered into a put-call arrangement which is two years out so there'll be no impact on cash flow or capital for 2007. If you look, though, at Apollinaris Germany, the acquisition of Apollinaris, acquisition of Traficante in Italy, the German bottling system and the put-call arrangement there as well as the kind of letter of intent with the other bottlers as well as China, there will be some additional capital in 2007 from those, we do not see it as being significant.  

It'll be, you know, maybe a few hundred million dollars, let's call it 3 or $400 million probably for those bottlers next year. My expectation, though is we had a significant ramp up in capital in North America for 2006.  

We see some of that declining and don't have to add as much capital to North America in 2007. So those will somewhat offset so you'll see some slight modest increase, but I don't think it's going to be a material kind of increase.  

WILL PECORIELLO: And Gary, that's the couple hundred million is the actually Cap Ex involved in those bottling operations but then taking into account the billion dollar payment and some of the acquisition costs, as well?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, we do have about a billion dollars that we, in Germany for the put-call. And in addition to that, if while we've got a nonbinding letter agreement with the remaining independent bottlers in Germany, I think most of that will probably be on a merger versus a cash basis. So it's a -- call it a billion plus a little, but not material.  

We've factored that in, have significant cash flows, I think in line with what we've been seeing and there should not be any impact on our share repurchase program.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, while we're talking about bottlers, let me just fire off that because that's the capital going forward. I just want to go back. I think within the broad strategic intent of what I laid out what is nearly 2.5 years ago about what we wanted to do.  

One of the issues that was out there was can the Coca-Cola Company run bottlers and run them effectively. I created what I call sort of euphuistically the hospital ward as it were, for bottlers where we need to turn them around and brought in the capability.  

And it's not just [Arial]. Underneath him we've brought in half a dozen very high quality operators. And, you know, it's doing the basics, as you know, I spent a lot of time on the bottling side, as well.  

But it's doing just the basics, which allow us to enhance the margins and you'll see that as we've gone through year-to-date, you know, we're talking about up three and therefore, whilst we're not going to retain them, I mean the whole idea of the hospital ward is that we're going to fix them and we're going to move them out and you'll see some of that happening as we go forward into '07. There's nothing that I can commit to at this stage, but I think you'll see some cash coming out of sub disposals because we've got them fixed and more will come into that mix as we need to.  

And I think from a very broad strategic standpoint that's extremely important because now we've got the ability to turn around bottlers that are underperforming and do that successfully. And that was something I know and quite legitimately I'm not pushing back hard on this was a big, big question about, well, you know, historically you happen to run bottlers very well, what are you able to do.  

I think the proof points are coming in there as you look at those bottling investment numbers and therefore it has a very strong impact on what we're also able to do with regard to our overall a base business, our core business in terms of concentrate sales because as we turn those around, therefore we've got higher performing bottlers out there. I think the reason I've expanded it, I know you need to look at what the capital is needed to do that, but I think the capability, which is just as important is something that we're beginning to demonstrate.  

WILL PECORIELLO: And Neville, given that you have that increased confidence on the capability, do you need to use anymore of the hospital ward that you referred to, say, in North America where there are structural issues?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, I will never comment on any part of the world about where the hospital ward may be. That is -- that's unfair do that to anyone. And very largely it actually comes to the bottlers themselves where they are unable to grow the business they've decided that they want to move out.  

I mean it's interesting how this always evolves. It tends to be a business that is underperforming and the owners say they've lost confidence in the ability to get a return on their capital and they sell to us because they've lost faith in the business.  

We haven't lost faith in the business. We take it, we turn it around, and we show that this is still a good business with business growth.  

So it's not -- in some instances the restructuring of Germany would be one. We would take maybe an aggressive stance and bring about change and I'm not, I don't take that off the table for some future actions, but by and large, it tends to be people who come to us and want to exit and we take it over and turn it around.  

WILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Yes, good morning, everyone.  

It looks like you guys are trying to pull back on some of this low, no negative profit bottled water that got added, let's say, probably four or five years ago. Can you walk us through maybe some other regions where we might see a pull back on some of this low margin bottled water volume and, you know, should this continue to be a little bit of a drag on at least volumes over the next couple of quarters, if that is the case? Thanks.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Basically, we've done most of it. I've talked about that with regard to a number of countries where we've underperformed in terms of pulling back. Indonesia was one, for example, parts of Europe were the other.  

There's obviously still some in North America and you will see some modest impacts that you're going to see there. And that's, you know, goes through probably to about Q2 '07, first half of '07.  

In terms of the overall company, I don't think it's going to be a major number. We'll highlight it, obviously, as you break out North America, you'll see it within that.  

But again, as Gary pointed out to you in terms of the actions taken in the third quarter was it has a volumetric impact, its impact on profitability is very limited. So we don't see that the moves that we make in that area will in any way undermine our ability to meet our long-term growth targets for volume growth.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Great. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Reilly with Morningstar.  

MATTHEW REILLY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning.  

I'd like to return to India for a moment. I was wondering if think that the long-term potential of the carbonated soft drink category has been limited by the latest round of pesticide allegations and product bans?  

MUHTAR KENT: Yes, let me take that.  

I do not think so. I think that the per capita consumption of carbonated soft drinks in India is very, very low and I think that they have a great future in India. I think the issue we've dealt very effectively and are continuing to deal effectively with the issue of pesticide with the allegations.  

And we feel very confident about our programs in India around both marketing both on a local basis as well as across the whole country. And we don't really -- we see this only as a very short setback. We feel that our growth in the third quarter could have been higher than it actually was but we feel that over the long-term we see great, great potential for our total portfolio in India, both in the carbonated beverage space as well as in the noncarbs.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: You know Muhtar and his team, I'm sure don't want to put themselves in the position of being any way self-congratulatory, but if you look at the 4% growth that we had in the quarter and, obviously, immediately after the pesticide issue hit again, when the [inaudible] CSE decided to use it as she admits for a broader issue of pesticides in the food chain in India, admitting that they picked on carbonated soft drinks because that would get the headlines, we had a major downturn for a few weeks.  

I think if you look at the 4%, you can see that we were prepared to handle it, we were prepared to go out there very rapidly work with the government. You've seen the government statements, you've seen the judicial system work for us. And I think you see the consumers starting to read it for what it is.  

MATTHEW REILLY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: And your final question is a follow-up from the line of Mark Greenberg with Deutsche Bank.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thanks. Good morning.  

Question relates to anything that you can offer with regards to the Coca-Cola systemwide procurement efforts. Wondering if you might be able to provide an update on how Coke is working with its bottlers to offset what appear to be higher input costs for both aluminum and high fructose corn syrup and if at all that factors into your thinking for concentrate price increases in '07? Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, it, [inaudible] complex mix, let me just go to input costs overall and I think we have to include in that sugar.  

But sugar prices did move up to something in the order of a 15-year high. And that is important with regard to most of the rest of the world because we use sugar as opposed to high fructose, [HFFS], high fructose corn syrup.  

You've seen those prices come down and certainly in the markets where we import as a system because you're talking about the systemic purchasing that we have, we have taken -- be able to take cover to be able to minimize those costs. So it's a 25-year high, actually, in sugar prices but we've been through this one before. So that forward coverage, which was taken out systemically for import markets, remember, because it's also a controlled price commodity is one piece.  

PT is another important piece. But we do not believe given the capacity, although there is some [typus in parazylene] in one of the input costs, but with the capacity that that won't have a major effect.  

Aluminum, we have seen the price of Alumina come down with the raw material. We haven't seen the price of aluminum coming down and part of that is actually, you know, the focus is on the London Metal Exchange on the trading on the London Metal Exchange. And trading and hedging has got a big effect on that.  

So if you look at the raw material input, we think sometime around the end of '06 beginning of '07 that the reality of the marketplace is going to come through and there will be some easing. It's a tough one to call.  

So if you go back to the questions around what's that going to mean with pricing and overall pricing flexibility, that's, as I say, a complex equation because to what degree are you able to get that price out of the marketplace? It's obviously something that we face on an equal basis with all of our competitors, particularly with aluminum where most supplies have declared force majeure and therefore, that may well be reflected more in pricing with the consumer rather than affecting our ability to price concentrate.  

We're going to take this on a quarter-by-quarter basis because we think given the other dynamics within that that that's an important piece. Gary, do you want to add to that?  

GARY FAYARD: Mark, just a couple of other thoughts on that. We do have a global procurement council made up of ourselves and all of our major bottlers and all of our, the main ingredients, be those ingredients are packaging, are included under that procurement group and we are procuring on a global basis.  

So most of the ingredients and packaging materials that we're talking about, we are one of or perhaps the largest purchaser in the world, and therefore that gives us some advantages in that and we are definitely working together as a global system on procurement.  

The second piece, as well, is that as you look at different areas of the world, some of these commodity costs are, in fact, dollar-based and because of that, different currencies will give you different impact and different views on commodity costs and the pressures are not as great in some of the international markets because of that as they are, perhaps in like in the U.S. So we're managing it actively and we'll continue to keep you updated as we go quarter-by-quarter.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think before I just close just a broader comment. You know, you're going to see more of this consolidation taking place in terms of managing input costs and using the strength of the system overall.  

I think I mentioned on the last call what we're working on with regard to IT, not just in terms of developing common platforms with our bottlers but being able therefore to cut costs in terms of overall IT development. That's just another initiative building off what Gary has said and that certainly is a major strategic thrust to enable us to actually capitalize on the size of the system, something that I think we have not done as well as we might.  

And I think that will over time you will continue to see that mitigate the costs of our system overall, because after all, we are the ones who are able to help our bottlers by leveraging the overall power of the system.  

So I'd like to thank each of you for joining us this morning. I would believe that the results in this quarter and that the plans we have in place that I am confident that the business is on a solid footing.  

I did not put in, but I really should have in my other comments, that there'll always be a bump on the road. Hopefully we never hit one, but on a quarterly-by-quarterly basis, that's something that's always a reality sometime down the road.  

We continue to focus on execution. It's critical on our part to going forward, but again, I think our results to date do underline the fact that our execution is improving.  

And of course, I look forward to speaking to you all again on the fourth quarter call early next year to share our progress. Thanks very much indeed.  

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's Coca-Cola Company's third quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061102e2aj000h1
  


 HD
 Q2  2006 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,362 words
   PD
18 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator. I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company's second-quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).  

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.  

   TD
I would like to now introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.  

ANN TAYLOR, VP AND DIRECTOR OF IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I am pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, and Muhtar Kent, head of our international operations. Following prepared remarks by Neville and Gary this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.  

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives, and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC reports.  

In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our company website at thecocacolacompany.com in the Investors section which reconcile our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our website for this information.  

Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. As is normal, my intention this morning is to make a few initials observations about the quarterly results, and then Gary is going to follow me with an overview of the financials and some additional perspective on 2006 as a whole. And then that should give us plenty of time for questions to myself and Gary and Muhtar.  

I am really pleased to report to you this morning that we delivered another solid quarter. On the top line, this is now the fifth quarter in a row where we have delivered at least 4% volume growth, demonstrating that this is a great industry with great opportunities.  

On the bottom line, we achieved record-level earnings per share of $0.78 in the quarter. But what I'm particularly encouraged about is the fact that we delivered ongoing currency-neutral operating income growth of 8% in the quarter, with positive performance from key markets more than offsetting weakness in others.  

On a year-to-date basis, ongoing currency-neutral operating income growth equaled 7%, even as we continue to make solid investments in our marketing. As a result of that, I believe that we are in good position to deliver against our full-year objectives as we move into the third and the fourth quarter.  

From a top-line perspective, I'm particularly pleased about three important factors. First, this is a quarter where we lapped our toughest volume comparison for the year. With 4% volume growth on top of 5% growth in the prior year, our two-year compounded annual growth rate equates to approximately 4.5%, ahead of our long-term growth objectives.  

This is an important milestone for our Company as it points to our ability to demonstrate consistency on a year-to-year basis, something that you know we have lacked in the past. It is also further evidence that our marketing investments in the prior year are starting to pay off.  

Second, we achieved balanced growth across categories, with over 3% growth in carbonated beverages and 5% growth in noncarbonated beverages. Trademark Coke grew 3% on top of 3% growth in the prior year. And take trademark Sprite -- it delivered 9% international growth and 5% worldwide. And Trademark Fanta grew by 4%. So as a result of that, these core brands delivered some 60% of the growth in the quarter. In noncarbs, we benefited from double-digit growth in water, ready-to-drink juice and POWERADE as we continue to expand our presence.  

Finally, our results continue to benefit from the geographic diversity of our business. The quarter was led by strong unit case growth in key emerging markets in Latin America, in Central and Eastern Europe, and in many parts of Asia, even as they lapped solid results in the prior year.  

These results, then, more than offset the volume declines in India and the Philippines, which in fact reduced the consolidated volume growth by 1%. That's these two countries alone, India and the Philippines. In fact, if you were to exclude India and the Philippines, worldwide volume would have increased by 5%. That demonstrates the strength of the numbers.  

In addition, and equally encouraging, is the strength of some of our more developed markets. Now, in Latin America, I want to focus again on the outstanding quarter and the strength of the business, and it was coupled with very strong execution tied to the World Cup, which led to 7% volume growth. That is lapping growth of 9% in the prior year. Thanks to marketing, innovation and strong execution in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, Trademark Coke, Sprite and Fanta grew 7, 8 and 9%, respectively, as we gained carbonated soft drink share in Latin America.  

In North America, we again delivered at the top end of our long-term growth expectations. North America grew volume 2% and delivered solid top- and bottom-line P&L results as innovation in noncarbonated beverages drove the growth. Importantly, we continued to stabilize our carbonated beverage trends, even as we lapped the launches of diet Coke with Splenda and Coke Zero from last year.  

In Africa, I predicted last quarter that we would see the return to growth, and I am pleased to say that we rebounded from our first-quarter results. And South Africa in particular led the way with a 7% volume growth.  

And finally, I'm very pleased with the ongoing progress that is being made in Europe as trends accelerated from the first quarter across every one of our divisions, including Northwest Europe and Germany. Excellent World Cup activation, and I was in four of the key countries over the World Cup, and I can personally testify to that. And improving execution drove carbonated beverage growth of 3%. And with the launch of "The Coke Side of Life" and Coke Zero going on as we speak today, I believe we are starting to turn the corner.  

So now, let's discuss Japan. Clearly, I am disappointed with the results for the quarter. And as for my expectation that Japan would be positive this quarter, simply put, I got it wrong. Now, Georgia Coffee did improve, but not as quickly as expected. However, Trademark Coke was weak, and we did not successfully lap the strong tea launches from the prior year, all of which was impacted by the overall industry -- overall category declines in the industry.  

So what are we doing? As you likely read last week, we've reinforced our management team, reflecting the importance and the unique complexity of the Japanese business. Dan Sayre, through his marketing and operational experience, will be the perfect complement to Uotani-san, who will continue to play a very important role working with our key bottlers and our customers and in the broader community, a job that is vital to the success of our business in Japan.  

Those are more long-term fixes. On a short-term basis, we are accelerating plans behind Georgia Coffee. And since the relaunch on May 1, as I mentioned earlier, results have improved, but we're putting additional marketing activity behind the brand, and that began in late June.  

For Brand Coke, we're launching a new national summer campaign. And in the tea category, we're focusing on driving results for Sokenbicha Original, and that was one of our bright spots for the quarter. It grew 6%. So we will be putting more weight behind that. Through these and other efforts, we believe that we are going to be able to improve the trends as we move through to the back half of the year.  

Now I know that some of you are frustrated with the results in Japan. And as you've heard my earlier comment, I am as well. However, as with other key markets such as North America and Northwest Europe, we have proven that we will aggressively address the issues as they come up and that we will make the correct long-term decisions for the business, leading to improve performance going forward. I am very confident that Japan will be no different to the other examples that I have just quoted.  

In summary, when I look around the world, I am very pleased with nearly every one of our markets. There are just a few exceptions. As a result, I believe we are well positioned heading into the back half of the year. Most importantly, our business is much better positioned today to deliver against our expectations by balancing our portfolio of operations, as demonstrated by the fact that once again, we delivered both top- and bottom-line results aligned with our long-term growth targets. This gives me confidence that we will achieve our business objectives, and in doing so, create sustained growth and value for the benefit of our shareholders and our stakeholders.  

Now let me turn the call over to Gary for some more details on the specific financials of the quarter.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville, and good morning. As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.78 for the second quarter, an increase of 8%. That means, on a year-to-date basis, reported earnings per share of $1.25, representing an increase of 11%.  

The quarterly results included a net $0.04 benefit primarily related to a gain from the sale of shares in the initial public offering of our Turkish bottler. Therefore, our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.74 per share, an increase of 9% over the prior year after considering [IM's] impacting comparability in both years.  

At the net revenue line for the quarter, we reported revenue up 3% versus the prior year, but there were a few things specifically impacting that 3% increase. First was a net negative 2% impact of structural change primarily related to the transfer in Spain of canning rights to our bottlers, which we have discussed in the past. As a reminder, there is no profit impact from that change.  

If you look at price and mix, we did benefit from pricing and mix in many of our markets. But that was offset by negative 1% impact due to the weak results in Japan.  

On operating income, we grew operating income by 3% on a reported basis for the second quarter. We also had some items impacting comparability in both the current and prior-year quarters. So after considering those impacts, operating income increased 7%. We also were impacted by a negative 1% effect from currency. So on an ongoing currency-neutral basis, we grew operating income 8% in the quarter.  

Now within the operating results for the quarter, we estimate that we benefited by approximately $0.02 per share primarily related to the timing of gallons. And therefore, we would expect that benefit to reverse in the second half of 2006.  

In the quarter, we repurchased $666 million of our stock and 1.2 billion for the first half of the year. As a result, our average shares outstanding for the second quarter were approximately 49 million shares lower than the average in '05. And that added 2 percentage points to our earnings per share growth in the quarter.  

I also wanted to touch on the second-quarter cash flow statement. You will see a decline in cash from operations, driven by an increase in working capital on a year-over-year basis. That increase was really driven by two key items that I discussed in the first quarter.  

First was the payment of the stepped-up marketing accruals from last year, that payment being made actually in 2006. That represented about a third of the change in working capital.  

Second was the impact of cash taxes on a year-over-year basis of approximately 250 million, which was primarily related to the tax repatriation in 2005. We accrued those repatriation expenses, but made a cash payment in the first quarter of this year.  

And finally, there was some impact due to the timing of receivables on a year-over-year basis as we continued to grow the business.  

As you can see, these items relate more to the timing of payments on items related to last year than any fundamental working capital structure of our operations.  

Now let me address some of the factors that we see impacting our outlook for the remainder of this year. As Neville stated and as we outlined in the release, with the progress to date and the pipeline we have in place, we believe we are on track to deliver against our objectives. Our read on the macroeconomic outlook for the year remains relatively positive, especially in many of the emerging markets. The only caveat continues to be some economic trends in Western Europe, where we believe we will have muted growth for the year.  

For input costs, we continue to see upward pressure. But we are actively managing those pressures, and although we do expect to see some increase, we believe it will be within a reasonable range.  

SG&A increased 5% in the quarter. That 5% reflects increased investments in marketing for our four operations, as well as increases in selling expenses within our bottling investment group. These increases were partially offset by effective management and timing of G&A, general and administrative expenses.  

With regard to taxes, we ended up the quarter with an underlying effective tax rate of 24%. Our best estimate for the remainder of the year is that the rate will continue to be 24%.  

Now a couple of comments on currency. On a comparable basis, we saw a negative impact from currency for the quarter and year to date on operating income of 1 and 2%, respectively. This is slightly better than our initial expectations, as we were able to benefit from an effective hedging strategy that mitigated some of the overall downside.  

We continue to put coverage in place and are effectively covered through the third quarter of this year on the euro and yen and several other currencies. Based on current spot rates and the expected impact of the coverage in place, the negative impact to operating income would be approximately, we believe, 1% for the full year 2006, including the impact for the first six months.  

In terms of flow, we would expect currencies to have a slightly negative impact in the third quarter and slightly positive impact in the fourth quarter. We also anticipate that our range for share repurchase in 2006 will remain between 2 and 2.5 billion.  

That is it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning. Neville, Muhtar and I are now ready for your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Caroline Levy, UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS: Just looking at how your currency forecasts have improved, and wondering, then, if -- it looks like you're telling us to take the $0.02 out of the back half of '06 for the overshipment of gallons, but your currency outlook has improved substantially. So do we really need to do that?  

And secondly, why was there an overshipment in the gallons?  

GARY FAYARD: Caroline, this is Gary. A couple of things. On currency, I would start first -- if you remember, back in December of last year when I told you that what currency looked like, it was going to be a negative 6 at the time. I said, but I think it is going to be much better than that. We will see how we do. And this was one of those times I was able to accurately forecast currency.  

I think what we will see is a negative 1 for the full year now, based on where currency rates are today, and that is important, plus the hedge coverage that we have, as I said, through the third quarter.  

Relative to your own expectations on currency, I think that depends on each individual and what they have built into their models, because I have looked at models that have more negative and less negative currency built in. So I think it really depends exactly on specific expectations by individual model.  

But relative to the gallons themselves, there are a couple of things. The $0.02 positive impact in the quarter, where gallons are ahead of cases and ahead of our own expectations for the year, we would expect to reverse in the second half of the year. It is primarily related to two geographies -- North America and Europe. In North America, it was literally just the timing of orders coming in from the bottlers as they were ramping up for Fourth of July and the summer selling season. In the EU, it was more around pipeline fill for Coke Zero.  

CAROLINE LEVY: But again, as you look to the back half, it seems that the estimates should go up in general versus where you were thinking, because of currency.  

GARY FAYARD: I think, Caroline, it does come back to what your assumptions were on currency. So I can't tell you specifically. It just depends on your assumption. What I can tell you is that I would expect full year now to be a negative 1. And that includes the negative two year to date for the first half of this year.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think, Caroline -- morning, Neville here -- I think the important thing is Gary's indication that we've got a good line of sight now for the balance of the year on what currency is going to be. You may recall last September, we were talking about a 6% penalty, and then we came down to 4 and 3. Now we've got a very firm fix on the year. So we are able to give you that, and then you need to feed that into whatever expectation you have.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you. Just very quickly, on equity income, it was down. And I'm just wondering what the problem was there.  

GARY FAYARD: There are a couple of things there, Caroline, that are going on. And without getting into any specifics, because many of the bottlers that we have equity income from are public and have not released yet, but I can tell you there are some one-time items in there. There is a pension change that had a fairly significant impact on one equity investee. There were some currency devaluations, which had a pretty big impact on an investee. And it is those kinds of items, but nothing, I would say, other than those kinds of things. Everything else is fairly normal.  

OPERATOR: Bryan Spillane, Banc of America Securities.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: A question for Neville and Muhtar -- just on the Philippines, the volumes are down pretty substantially still. And I know San Miguel has made some comments publicly about talks that they are having with you in terms of structure. Can you just talk a bit about where you stand in those talks and whether or not it is going to require buying San Miguel out completely, or is the potential just to buy the majority stake in order to turn that around?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, there is nothing definitive in terms of any signed agreements or anything of that nature at this point in time. You have seen the releases that have come out from San Miguel, that we are in talks about potentially restructuring it. That is still very much work in progress. It is very clear from the results, as you've mentioned yourself, Bryan, that the business is in bad shape at the moment, that the route to market is not working. And therefore, we are having very, very strong discussions.  

And one of the potential outcomes is that we will increase our ownership and that we will take management control. But that is not defined yet and not agreed yet. But it is certainly very high on our agenda. And Muhtar, in fact, has been in there very recently in terms of leading those discussions himself.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: And as you have gone through this negotiation, I guess, has there been any effort to improve the route to market yet, or are we just seeing sort of a standstill at this point until you work out a structure?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: There is no change in the route to market system at this point in time.  

OPERATOR: William Pecoriello, Morgan Stanley.  

WILLIAM PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I was just focusing on the underlying operating profit. You had talked about the 8% when you adjusted for foreign currency. But that of course benefited on the $0.02 from the timing of the gallons and the G&A. So if you back that -- that's about 3 points of profit growth. So I back that out, I get about 5% in the quarter.  

So looking to the back half of the year, what I am trying to understand is if Japan is going to continue to be a drag versus original budget, and you've talked about additional market spending in Japan to turn it around, what do you see as the offsets in the portfolio on the underlying profit growth? Is it the rebound in Europe and continued strength in Latin America? So I'm just trying to get comfort on that back-half-of-year underlying profit outlook.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Short answer is yes. And I will let Gary go into detail.  

GARY FAYARD: Bill -- I guess it's okay if I say Bill and not William, as the operator did -- Bill, a couple of things. First, on the $0.02 in the current quarter that we benefited, if you go back to last year's second quarter, there was also a $0.02 timing benefit. So if you take that out as well, we are still at that 8% increase. So we feel very comfortable with our operating income increase -- in fact, at the high end of our range and operating income of what we would expect. So we feel very good there, and year to date at 7%, feel very good about it.  

A couple of things I would say. Japan will continue to be somewhat of a drag in the second half of the year. And I will switch to Muhtar on that in just a second.  

But the other thing as well -- we are not only seeing very strong growth in the emerging markets, but we are seeing a rebound in northwest Europe, particularly in Great Britain. Germany was a little softer than I think some of you expected. But it is right in line with what we thought would happen. We did put through a needed price increase in Germany just in front of the World Cup. And I think that was the right thing to do for the long term.  

But we feel actually very comfortable and confident going into the second half of the year. Neville, Muhtar?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me make a comment before I pass it on to Muhtar on Japan, picking up on Germany as an example. You know, this is not a sprint, this is a marathon in terms of everything we are doing. And I continue to emphasize that we are going to do the right thing for the long term.  

So if you take Germany, a number of you have been in Germany. You know that the pricing generally in Germany is very low compared to the rest of Europe. So we took the opportunity to rectify that in some of the take-home packages in Germany just ahead of the World Cup. So that was the right overall decision for Germany.  

At the same time, we are getting very strong double-digit growth in our immediate consumption packages, which is where we are focusing -- I think you saw that when you were there. That is around 20% growth. That, therefore, is a much more profitable business, as you know. So it is part of a long-term view of doing the right thing.  

If you go to India, it is exactly the same story. We have taken actions to reduce credit. We are collecting receivables. We are tightening up on a number of controls. You see the benefits of that actually coming through in terms of profitability in the bottler investment group, which is our sort of hospital ward for bottlers that are not performing. And so there is a balance there in terms of the profitability. But we took the volume hit.  

We think, by the way, you will certainly see some significant improvement in the back half in India in terms of volume because that action is behind us. But we are willing to take the pain in order to do the right thing. And that is part of what you have seen in some of the areas that maybe were a little softer than you had thought.  

And then I just want to hand over to Muhtar about Japan, the actions in Japan and then what we're doing. Muhtar?  

MUHTAR KENT, HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: You mentioned Japan being a possible drag in the second half. And what I would just like to say is certainly there is going to be -- I have every confidence that there is going to be an improving trend in the second half in Japan. Q3 will clearly be better than Q2, and Q4 will be better than Q3, based on some of the actions that we have already taken and some of the other actions in the pipeline.  

You mentioned increased marketing -- actually, there is going to be -- we have taken every action to ensure that the marketing is going to become more effective in Japan. It is not increased, but it is reallocation of marketing behind the brands that are performing, like Sokenbicha, like the diets category that has already been very positive even in the first half, and also behind very specific activities around Trademark Coca-Cola, Brand Coca-Cola, specifically, in the season, in the peak season now, going forward, as well as the early indications from the restage of Georgia, certainly, are showing very good results, particularly with the flagship Emerald Mountain coming forward. Every month was better than the other. In fact, in the month, the very profitable canned coffee actually had showed a positive share gain in the last month of the quarter.  

So we certainly are expecting good -- better results coming out of Japan, and also particularly to your question, the issue of reallocation of marketing and making marketing more effective.  

OPERATOR: Robert van Brugge, Sanford Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I have a question for Gary about the flow of corporate expenses throughout the year. It appears that in the fourth quarter of last year you had a big step up. Should we expect it to be kind of a normal base case, or should it provide for an easier comparison in the back half of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: Robert, I would say on expenses, there was a slight benefit in that $0.02 that I talked about in the second quarter, primarily in G&A corporate expenses. I would expect that to turn around in the third and fourth quarter. But based on what we are cycling, I would say that we are containing to focus on expenses to get leverage out of the G&A line. We have done that year to date pretty well and will continue to focus on that. I would expect the first half to be slightly lower than the second half, but not significantly different.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Robert, Neville here. I just want to reemphasize the real focus that we do have on that SG&A line. You see that we continue to invest in marketing. That allows us to be able to do that. And we get the right leverage out of that. So you're going to see a strong focus on the SG&A line coming through in the many quarters ahead.  

GARY FAYARD: I guess, let me add one thing, too, just for full transparency as well. And you will see it in some of the detail in the 10-Q. But you'll also see that sales and service is included in that SG&A line, which is volume variable to volume in the bottler investments group. And you will see that continuing to grow as the bottling investment group continues to improve their results and continues to grow volume. So you are going to see different growth rates in the three different categories -- marketing, sales and service and G&A within that line.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Torres, HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC INVESTMENT BANK: First, I was hoping you could update us on the consolidation of the bottlers in Germany, if there's any new news there. And secondly, on your Northwest Europe, you had a stabilization there that we've seen over the last couple quarters -- has that been most attributable to the World Cup, new products, things like that? Or are we just -- how are we seeing market improvements, just better execution, things like that, that are somewhat more sustainable?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay, let me make a comment on the bottler group, because that is one that I've been handling. Neville here. The discussions are continuing. In fact, around the World Cup, I met with the bottlers. We, obviously, we absorbed Bremen as part of consolidation.  

I would make two points on where we are with the consolidation. First, I would say that the discussions continue to move forward successfully. There are still a few outstanding issues, but we are continuing to make good progress.  

I think, more importantly, we are working in a very collaborative way with the bottlers. I think what you see in the results is that we're not letting the discussions interfere with the business. In fact, the bottlers have undertaken to work as if we had finalized the discussions and we were moving together as a consolidated entity. So some of the issues that we had in the past regarding promotions on a German-wide basis, etc., those issues are not ones that we're concerned about at the moment.  

So the overall atmospherics, if you want to put it that way, are actually very good. I am not predicting that we will definitely be able to conclude, but we're certainly moving in the right direction. And I am going to hand over to Muhtar for the balance of your question.  

MUHTAR KENT: I think what we are really seeing in the first half is the benefits of some of the key strategies we have implemented across the EU, across Northwest Europe. Across the EU, Trademark Coke was up 4% with very good World Cup activation, of course, but also very, very powerful immediate consumption measures and strategies implemented across all the countries. And we've seen very strong diet and light growth across the EU, across the key markets, also double-digit POWERade and Minute Maid growth in the EU.  

All of this will continue with strong innovation and marketing plans for the remainder of the year based on a very powerful, very, very powerful Coke Zero launch, "Coke Side of Life" being launched, our new campaign, accelerating route-to-market improvements in key markets like Italy, like France, like Great Britain, which will again benefit a focus on revenue growth management and benefiting the entire system.  

And we will certainly drive CSDs -- continue to drive CSDs with a focus on diet as well as light for the balance of the year. So, I mean, the Coke Zero is the most powerful launch in Germany since 1983, has really excited the system in a country like Germany and providing real focus and energy behind our system.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me just reflect on the Zero launch as an example of what is happening. The first launch outside of the U.S. was into Australia, and you know the great success of that. And that was repeated in New Zealand.  

And we were down as a management team in Australia in the first quarter, Muhtar, Dominique, myself, everyone down there, looking at what had happened. And we saw the tremendous power of Zero. The Zero launch was actually not in our plans for any of the European markets that we are launching into now. And in March, we took the decision to go into the market, and we are in the market right now. We are launching, as we speak, it is out in all of the key markets that we've mentioned -- Germany, UK, France, etc.  

So that is the speed with which we have been able to move. And it is also the way that we have managed to address really reenergizing the system, as Muhtar has indicated. And we have both been wearing out shoe leather walking around the streets and getting a feel for where things are.  

So even though the category in Great Britain is down, we believe that Zero is going to help turn that around. But it really is the increased speed with which we are able to do things, the fact that the system, together -- because we're talking about the bottlers being fleet of foot as well -- the speed with which we are able to do things, which I find very encouraging, as well as the overall results that Muhtar has just talked about.  

OPERATOR: Christine Farkas, Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: A question on margins, specifically in North America and Latin America. We saw margins based on underlying, excluding [some] eliminations, down year over year. And I'm just wondering if you can comment either on the product mix impact or the timing of G&A or anything like that which can explain some of the shortfall?  

GARY FAYARD: Christine, a couple of things on margin. I think on a reported basis, gross margin was up 140 basis points. There were some comparability items in there, particularly the Spain canning rights and that sort of thing. But even with that, gross margin on a comparable basis increased 40 basis points.  

There are a couple of things that are driving margins, though. One is that there have been some increases in input costs, particularly in North America, I would say particularly around orange juice. And orange juice itself is up fairly significantly. And then just the percentage of finished products within our portfolio in North America, particularly where we own a lot of finished product business, as well as the impact of the bottling investment group, which is going to, as they continue to increase, they will have a lower margin.  

But overall, I would say, relative to margin, we are fairly comfortable where we are. And even with some pressure on input costs, I would say we are in pretty good shape.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Gary, can you comment on Latin America as well, in terms of costs and margins being a bit lighter than a year ago?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, let me see, because I had not focused specifically on Latin America.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Your growth of water or certain products that would have brought down that number?  

GARY FAYARD: Well, on Latin America, we've got revenues up ongoing -- you know, 18, operating income up 16. A lot of the difference there is actually in the marketing, where we continue to invest in marketing in Latin America.  

There's nothing relative to margins in Latin America of any concern at all. In fact, if anything, the volume in Latin America is very much skewed to CSDs, and very strong performance there. So other than there's been a little bit of weakening in currency in the peso in Mexico, nothing of any significance or any concern that I have at all in Latin America. It is a business that is performing extremely well and is actually -- we are continuing to invest in it and continue to see results pay off from those investments.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Is it front-loaded marketing spend, or this is the kind of pace that we can expect to see for the rest of the year?  

MUHTAR KENT: This is Muhtar. Two things -- I think first, as Gary said, it's a very strong performance from all the key markets, led by Mexico. The marketing is basically a spread on the curve. But certainly, there has been a lot of very major marketing activity in the first half, particularly in the second quarter around the World Cup across all countries, which really has yielded also very positive results both on the image indicators as well as in the volume.  

OPERATOR: Carlos Laboy, Bear, Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS: Mexico and Brazil aside, to stay with that thought for a minute, you saw great growth in CSDs. But water aside, still no long-term agreement with bottlers on certain noncarbs like juices, for example, for the traditional trade. Could you speak to that, expand on that? And is there any likelihood that you and the bottlers could go separate ways on certain noncarbs like juices?  

MUHTAR KENT: Carlos, this is Muhtar. Good morning. Firstly, I want to just say that we have very good alignment with our bottling partners across the region in Latin America, have fairly extensive discussions going around the alignment in terms of how we go forward, and a very good relationship. The current-quarter results in Mexico and Brazil demonstrate the power of the system. And I think you will see us being more active in the noncarbonated beverage arena going forward.  

We are working with each of the bottlers, including FEMSA, Coca-Cola FEMSA, to develop our long-term plans to capture the opportunities in the marketplace. You will see us certainly being more active in the area of noncarbonated beverages going forward.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: To take the one piece of your question -- any likelihood that ourselves and the bottlers are going to go separate ways -- I would answer no.  

OPERATOR: Cheryl Gedvila, Prudential Equity Group.  

CHERYL GEDVILA, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: My question is also on your Latin American operations. And I was just wondering if you could give a little more color on how pricing is working throughout the region versus what the impact of FX was in the quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Cheryl, this is Gary. A couple of things I would say relative to Latin America. Number one, in Latin America, we are on incidence pricing, and so -- meaning that our concentrate revenues are calculated as a percentage of the net wholesale of what the bottler sells. So we get an increase in pricing, positive pricing, as the bottler gets pricing in Latin America. And it was built that way years ago because of back when those markets were hyperinflationary.  

So it is a method where we and the bottlers work very effectively around pricing. And this is where you really see revenue growth management working. And it is working extremely well in Latin America, probably the leading region for us in the world around revenue growth management, where that is really around getting the best mix by channel, product package by channel, and that is what you are seeing.  

FEMSA has been doing an outstanding job starting in Argentina, then Mexico and Brazil, and all of the bottlers are rolling out very sophisticated revenue growth management ability across their entire organization to drive the positive mix. And we had about 8 points of positive price mix in the second quarter in Latin America -- 9 points year to date. And then there was some negative -- positive currency of 4 points.  

OPERATOR: Matthew Riley, Morningstar.  

MATTHEW RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: I was hoping to get an update on the overall performance of innovations over the past couple of years -- kind of what is under-, over-performed expectations, whether you have a sense as to why, and how your whole innovation strategy has evolved over that time.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I think you have seen -- you say the last couple of years, let's take the last -- it is probably the last 18 months -- and you've got to look at a very broad background of how we are looking at the business differently. We're looking at the different deed states as opposed to just the normal categorized segmentation.  

And as we do that, we are bringing forward innovations in -- really, I would put it in three buckets -- innovations in carbonated soft drinks. And you have seen that with regard to Splenda and Zero. And we have managed to cycle, if you take the U.S., we have managed to cycle now into the second year of Splenda and Zero successfully. And therefore, we see that rolling out globally. I have just commented about that. We think that that is still a major opportunity with diets.  

And I just also want to make a comment there about innovation is not just product-led. It is also package-led. Again, I talked about the strong growth of Fanta. That is driven by a new package. The whole new design of that bottle has been very successful. And very often, we have seen major growth spurts around packaging. So that has been part of it.  

If we take -- again, I will go with a North American example here, but if we take energy drinks, just 18 months ago, we were hardly in the category with less than 1% share. We're looking at almost -- it depends which measure you look at, but we're very close to being number two in energy drinks from nowhere. So that is very encouraging.  

Some of the line extensions have come and gone in carbonated soft drinks. That is something that we do anticipate. But some -- Coke with Lime, for example, was not as successful as we had anticipated. But those are really to add some interest into the category. But DASANI Flavors, those have worked well. Aquarius in Spain, which we are starting to expand into other markets, has been extremely successful as well. And you are seeing the growth that we have with POWERADE.  

The bucket that we have that I want to focus on is the one which is really niche, small volume, but high margin. So here you talk about a Tab Energy, I guess the Full Throttles are in there as well -- I commented on energy drinks earlier -- but also on the likes of Coke Blak. A little early still to judge it, but we are certain -- the main launch was in France in March, and we are ahead of our budgeted plan in France. A number of other markets are looking at it as well. So that is that second bucket.  

And then the third one is, of course, expanding the noncarb portfolio. Part of that is also acquisition driven. And you have seen us with two very important announcements in Europe with the acquisition of Traficante in Italy and of Apollinaris in Germany, which again widens out that portfolio. And you're going to see more of that.  

I'm going back to CSDs -- the Vault rollout, by the way, is looking very strong as well. So in general terms, our hit rate is actually higher than I would have anticipated, and remembering the innovation pipeline is one that was pretty empty. And we have only had 18 months of filling it. So there is more to come.  

But on the negative side -- Muhtar has already mentioned it -- what we did in Japan in terms of repositioning Georgia Coffee would be one that we're not terribly happy with. And obviously, we -- Hajime, the green tea in Japan, which we have been unable to cycle the initial very successful launch there, would be ones that you could point to that have not been as successful. So that's sort of a broad trip around innovation and the success of it.  

OPERATOR: John Faucher, JPMorgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Gary, I wanted to follow up on your commentary on sort of the margin changes, because you have so many puts and takes in the P&L this quarter. If I adjusted for, staying on the top line, gallons on the top line, gallons on the operating profit line and currency on the operating profit line, I came up with operating margin expansion of somewhere around 60 basis points. Does that seem right, first of all? And if that is right, is that something we can use sort of going forward over the balance of the year in terms of a margin number?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, thanks for the question. A couple of things. I'll kind of give you some of the puts and takes and tell you what I think the number is. On a reported basis, margins increased 140 basis points. That was from about 66% to 67.4, and this is gross margin in the quarter.  

If you look at items impacting comparability in both years, the increase goes from 140 up to 220 basis points. But then if you net the structural change out, that is a negative probably 210 basis points. The bottler acquisitions helped by 40.  

So my net-net on gross margin, I would say margins increased on a comparable basis about 40. You are coming up 60; I am up at about 40 basis points. Going from 67.4 to 67.8 is the way we would calculate it. And that is even with the decline in Japan of 6% and unit case volume in the quarter.  

So I will put it this way -- as Muhtar said, you are going to see an improving trend in Japan. And therefore, my expectation on margin should be that we will hold what we've got or it should improve.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Gary, I was actually looking at the operating margin line.  

GARY FAYARD: Well, you should have stopped me before I went through all that detail.  

JOHN FAUCHER: I didn't want to be impolite here.  

GARY FAYARD: But I thought I was doing such a great job at the gross margin level.  

JOHN FAUCHER: It was -- it just wasn't exactly what I was looking for.  

GARY FAYARD: Isn't that the way you're supposed to answer these questions? On a comparable basis, operating margin for the quarter we would say are up 70 basis points. You are at 60; we are in 70. We are pretty close.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Now, does that include the benefit from the extra gallon shipments, though?  

GARY FAYARD: But remember that there was a benefit in the prior-year second quarter as well. So it is the same thing. If you adjust it out, you also -- there's some that adjust out of the second quarter of last year. So we still say about 70 basis points. You are at 60, so we are in the right ballpark, John.  

JOHN FAUCHER: And that is fair looking forward?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: John, Neville here. Gary mentioned Japan. I mean, I think that is where we really are encouraged in terms of our ability to absorb such a strong negative quarter in Japan. That does give us great encouragement looking forward. I just wanted to reemphasize that, John.  

OPERATOR: Marc Chin [sic], Merrill Lynch.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: It is Marc Cohen. Neville, I am struck by the repeated comments you have made about 2% volume growth in North America being at the high end, in light of the fact that many people expect the whole LRB industry in volume terms to grow 2 or 3%.  

So we hear a lot about how the system is underperforming. And indeed, it seems like at the surface, at least, you are planning around volume share losses. So I guess the question is -- the questions are, is that true? And if so, can you explain the strategic thinking and the competitive and financial ramifications of that?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, we are talking about our long-term growth targets. And you, I think, are focusing on maybe a narrower timeframe. And I also want to point out that as you try and do an analysis with some of our competitors, we're looking at different periods.  

But it is clear I'm still not satisfied with the level of growth that we have in North America. But I am also very encouraged that we're improving the trends. And I think you and I have talked about that. And I think that you see that happening.  

We are also improving the execution capability. And John Brock and I have been talking, if we go specifically to CCE, about the things that he is focusing on to continue to do better in terms of execution. They have identified that, and of course the management team there has commented before. We have great confidence in the new management team in North America to do that.  

But with regard to overall shares, we are stable in share with regard to carbonated soft drinks. And again, we've got June in here. So that may be different from some of the other data that you may be looking at. And that is even lapping the launches of Splenda and Zero last year. So CSDs are looking good.  

We actually have gained share in energy drinks. I have commented on that earlier. We have gained some share in water. That is within the overall industry. We've lost share in sports drinks, and that is something that, even with the strong growth, that does concern us. So we want to highlight that.  

In warehouse juice, delivered juice, we have gained, but the other categories where we have been weak, juice drinks, but also specifically tea and coffee ready to drink. And with regard to that, although the formal announcements aren't out, you know we've got two very strong launches in tea coming up -- all the reports about Gold Peak moving out in North America. So there is innovation in tea coming out, which will, we believe, address that.  

To your broader issue, we are trying to stabilize the business here. One of the reasons I said it's not a sprint, it is a marathon -- I am not committing to moving out of the band that we are in at the moment. I think that is what we are able to achieve. But clearly, our overall goal is to grow share. We have grown share five out of the last six quarters overall in NA RTD. I anticipate that continuing. And therefore, if industry growth continues and doesn't get slowed by fuel pricing, etc., we would expect to participate in that.  

MARC COHEN: So just to be clear, I mean, you look at the North American ready-to-drink market, and I was talking longer term, really, rather than shorter term -- is it that -- you are looking at 1 to 2, and many people talk about 2 to 3 in volume terms. Are those numbers comparable, or do you see a different growth rate for the industry longer term? And is the difference in thinking here one between volume and value?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: That is a very good point. Our 1 to 2 is based on believing the industry is going to grow at 1 to 2. So that is one point of difference. And then your second point is the value issue. And that is where I was talking about some of the niches, and that is where your Tab Energy, your Coke Blaks, the like come in.  

And that gives us the margin expansion -- the energy drinks with the margin expansion. So I think you have to look at the overall profitability that we are managing to put into the system. And I emphasize system, because we are obviously very cognizant of the fact that CCE still doesn't have a positive return on invested capital.  

So there is a broad focus on the overall health. And I think if you'd look at the strong profit growth in North America over the quarter and over the six months, you'll see that reflected as well. So we are trying to balance the two. And then I got back to the fact that our view is therefore within that, the industry is going to be 1 to 2% growth. I hope I am wrong.  

Thank you very much, everyone, Gary and Muhtar as well. I just wanted to say that we do believe that this quarter demonstrates that we have got consistency and that the plans are clearly in place for the balance of the year to continue to reflect that. Execution is going to continue to be critical in our path going forward. But again, we are seeing sequential improvements in execution as we move ahead.  

So I look forward to speaking to you again in the third-quarter call in October, once again, share with you our progress. Thanks very much indeed, everyone.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes The Coca-Cola Company's second-quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060801e27i000dz
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling  Company  S.A. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,791 words
   PD
16 May 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Coca-Cola HBC conference call on the first-quarter 2006 financial results.  

We have with us Mr. Doros Constantinou, Managing Director, Mr. Nik Jhangiani, our Chief Financial Officer, and Ms. Melina Androutsopoulou, Investor Relations Director.  

   TD
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, May 16, 2006.  

I now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Ms. Melina Androutsopoulou. Please go ahead, Ms. Androutsopoulou.  

MELINA ANDROUTSOPOULOU, IR DIRECTOR, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Thank you, operator. Good afternoon to Europe and good morning to the U.S., and thank you for joining our first-quarter results call. I'm pleased to be joined today by Doros Constantinou, our Managing Director, and Nik Jhangiani, our Chief Financial Officer.  

Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements, including long-term volume and earnings projections, and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements contained in the earnings release and the Company's most recent filings. In addition, I'd like to point out that our (indiscernible) GAAP financials are available on our Web site at CocaColaHBC.com.  

I will now turn the call over to Doros. Doros?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU, MANAGING DIRECTOR, CHAIRMAN OF OPERATING COMMITTEE, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Thanks, Melina, and welcome, everyone.  

I am pleased to be able to report to you today a solid start to the year with our first-quarter results being in line with expectations. Despite the ongoing challenges we face, I believe our balanced portfolio of countries and the wide range of beverage choice we offer our consumers continues to provide a strong platform for achieving consistent growth. For the first quarter, we were particularly encouraged by the strong topline growth we achieved with revenue growing by 15%. This result reflects the combination of strong organic volume growth of just under 6%, achieved price realization in line with our plans, and the contribution of Multon, the juice business we jointly acquired with the Coca-Cola Company in April last year.  

Our underlying earnings per share, which includes the contribution from the Multon business, increased $0.02 to EUR0.08. Excluding Multon, our earnings per share results of EUR0.06 was in line with 2005. As expected, this result was negatively impacted by our (indiscernible) from investment in sales force and capability building initiatives, as well as some raw material cost pressures. Nik will take you through the details of this shortly.  

Our total volume during the quarter grew by 9% with Multon accounting for approximately 3% of this growth. As a result of Catholic Easter shifting into the second quarter this year, our volumes in Q1 were negatively impacted by approximately 4 to 5 million unit cases.  

Looking at our volume performance by category, carbonated soft drinks grew by 2% in the quarter with (indiscernible) growing in the high single digits. Noncarbonated soft drinks grew in the midteens with the water, juice, tea and sports drink categories all growing strongly. (indiscernible) brands declined by over 3% during the quarter, as consumers shifted their preference towards our core CSD brands. This decline was most pronounced in our emerging segment with growth moderating in our developing segment.  

Let me now spend a minute discussing the performance of each of our segments during the quarter. Volumes in our established market segment remain stable with the Easter shift negatively impacting (indiscernible) results by around 3 million unit cases, so with just over half of the total 45 million unit cases I mentioned earlier. Although it is still early in the year, our Greek operation performed well, driven by recovering core CSDs and strong double-digit growth in the water category. We also completed the restructuring we announced earlier this year, which resulted in closing down three warehouses and ceasing production in our Athens plant. The revised structure will allow us to operate more efficiently and provide the right level of flexibility to respond quickly to market developments as they arise.  

We experienced some volume softness in Switzerland during the quarter but are working towards revising these trends through our planned initiatives. As part of our step-up in sales force investment in Austria, Switzerland and Greece, we added over 120 people to our sales force to drive topline growth of our full product portfolio and better manage (indiscernible) execution.  

Turning to our developing market segment, volume grew by 9% despite experiencing some very cold weather in Eastern Europe early in the quarter. We are particularly encouraged by the return to a favorable pricing environment in this segment, which allowed us to achieve price realization in line with our plans. Over the last two quarters, we have been able to selectively increase prices across most categories and countries in this segment while still maintaining strong volume growth momentum.  

Our key developing countries performed very well with high double-digit growth across all noncarbonated categories. As an example of this, in Hungary, the Cappy Ice fruit juice umbrella brand achieved good growth as we benefited from a strong system focus, branded cold drink placement and [outlet] targeted merchandising. In Poland, promotional activity behind our (indiscernible) water brand drove strong category growth.  

Our emerging markets achieved strong volume growth of 11% before any contribution from our Multon business. Romania and Bulgaria reported double-digit volume growth supported by new flavor expansions on the Fanta product.  

In Russia, exceptionally cold weather in the first half of the quarter disrupted our distribution operations, but despite this, we were still able to achieve volume growth in the low teens before including Multon.  

In Nigeria, we experienced a volume decline as a result of seven lost trading days during the nationwide population census carried out in March and from some social unrest in parts of the country. However, again, the strength of our portfolio of countries allowed us to achieve strong overall growth in this segment as a result of performance, coming in ahead of expectations in our other emerging countries.  

As we move into our high summer selling season, I am also encouraged by recent progress in packaging innovation introduced across the Group and our planned promotional activity. We recently launched [Burn] in an aluminum bottle in Poland, where it was combined with a new product formulation for this product.  

In Ireland, we introduced a smaller, conveniently sized 350ml (indiscernible) bottle for our core CSDs to broaden appeal because targeted consumer groups. Together with the Coca-Cola Company, we are currently exploring opportunities to launch Coke Black in some of our markets. Of course, through the Coca-Cola Company's sponsorship of the upcoming FIFA 2006 World Cup, we've launched (indiscernible) integrated marketing campaign around trademark Coke, using a combination of above and below-the-line marketing support. As we lead up to this highly-watched event, our channel focused marketing execution and outlet activation has been creating strong consumer excitement for our core Coca-Cola brand, which we expect (indiscernible) second-quarter volume growth.  

We are further leveraging the system's marketing strength for the Coke umbrella brand under the new global campaign, the Coke Side of Life. Some of our key countries, including Russia and Greece, are already benefiting from this brand-building initiative, which involves broad-based media coverage and these will be further rolled out across other countries in the coming months.  

As previously announced in March of this year, we completed the acquisition of the Serbian juice company Fresh & Co. We're also pleased to have completed the purchase of 95% of Lanitis in April. I'm very excited about the additions of these two businesses and what they bring to our peripheral volume as well as the potential for growth by utilizing our strong distribution system and exploiting R&D capabilities across existing and new beverage categories.  

On Troficante, the Italian water business we've agreed to jointly acquire with the Coca-Cola Company, the transaction is currently being reviewed by the Italian Competition Authority, and we are awaiting regulatory approval. As such, it is still early to provide any financial guidance on this transaction, but we will provide you with a further update when the transaction closes.  

So in summarizing, I am very pleased with the start we've made in 2006, and even though this is a small quarter for our business, our strong topline growth, ongoing focus on driving supply chain efficiencies towards improved cost pressures, and our planned innovation pipeline and promotional activity over the next three quarters gives us confidence that we will be able to achieve our financial targets for 2006.  

I will now hand over to Nik, who will take you through the detail of our first-quarter results. Nik?  

NIK JHANGIANI, CFO, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Thanks, Doros.  

Again, overall, we are very pleased with operating performance as we report the start of 2006 -- 9% volume growth all-in, 12% underlying EBIT growth, 39% growth in net profit, and underlying EPS of EUR0.08, a 33% increase. So all driven primarily by strong organic volume growth, the contribution of the Multon business of course, and the continued strong focus on execution in the marketplace.  

Our gross margins improved by approximately 30 basis points, and our EBIT margins were down slightly as we continue to invest in the right route-to-market set up to lay solid foundations required for future successes, particularly within the established market segment.  

Now, I'd like to highlight just a few details on our first-quarter 2006 results, focusing on the underlying performance. Again, that is excluding the impact of the restructuring charges, and I will talk about those separately, and of course excluding the impact of the tax lawsuits, which I know most of you are tired of hearing about but hopefully should be completed with the utilization of these by 2007.  

So starting at the top, net sales revenue for the Group up 15% against volume growth of 9, and on a per-unit case basis up just under 6%. On a currency-neutral basis, our net sales revenue per case increased by over 3%, driven by strong revenue growth management strategies through our brand (indiscernible) price (indiscernible) based approach, as well as improved mix of our single-serve offerings and favorable category mix. As we indicated in the press release, currency-neutral net sales revenue per unit case were up 3%, 0.2% and 13% in the established, developing and emerging market segments, respectively. The increases in the established markets were driven by Greece and Italy with the latter also contributing to a higher net sales revenue realization as a result of our route to market initiatives with us selling directly to certain immediate consumption outlets versus through wholesalers.  

In the developing markets, we reversed the trend of flat pricing with selective increases in key markets. Excluding the adverse impact on net sales revenue of mix effects from increased water sales within the segment, currency-neutral net sales revenue per unit case was actually up about 1.5%. On water again, while the net sales revenue realization is lower, our costs are lower as well with no impact to our gross margins as we continue to focus on immediate-consumption packages. In the emerging markets, healthy pricing across most markets with also a larger impact coming through from Nigeria where we took a 17% price increase during September of 2005 and of course the contribution of the Multon business. If you exclude Nigeria and Multon, our emerging market net sales revenue realization per unit case on a currency-neutral basis was still up by about 6%, so an extremely healthy start to the year.  

Turning over to cost of goods sold, that was up about 15% and on a per-case basis up just over 5% with the main increase coming through from higher raw material costs, as we had guided towards, offset by continuing operating efficiencies and supply chain initiatives. The combined effects from better price-mix variance, cost-management initiatives and some benefits from currency have resulted in gross margin improvement up about 30 basis points, as reported.  

If we look below gross profit down to the EBIT line, underlying operating expenses for the quarter up about $0.07 as we had planned, again continued focus on growing our sales force capabilities as we strive towards excellence in marketplace execution. These are up about $0.03 a case -- as well as increases in our warehousing and distribution costs, up about $0.03 as well as a result of increased outlet coverage through our route-to-market initiatives and to some extent from higher transportation costs as a result of higher oil prices. As I indicated earlier, the route-to-market initiatives in Italy will drive an increase in our distribution costs, offset by the improvement in our net sales revenue realization. This is as a result of direct selling rather than through wholesalers, so really some reclassification here but, over time, we would expect continued growth to our bottom line as well.  

Finally, on administrative costs, up about $0.01 for the quarter with our continued investments in our IT enterprise model and SAP roll-out with five additional countries going live as of April 1, 2006 for a total today of 22 of our 27 markets utilizing the SAP platform.  

All in all then, a very strong underlying EBIT performance -- plus 12% for the first quarter, and excluding Multon, still up a couple of percentage points, a solid start to the year, given the challenging macrotrends and the upfront investments in operating expenses.  

Looking at finance costs, the interest expense for the first quarter was up EUR3.5 million as a result of both higher rates as well as higher net debt to fund the Multon and other acquisitions last year.  

On taxes, while the effective tax for the quarter at 41% is lower than that for last year, the rate really does vary on a quarterly basis as the result of the mix of taxable profits and deductible expenses across each of our territories. It isn't really meaningful, particularly for the first quarter, given the size of the taxable profits. We continue to expect a full-year effective tax rate of approximately 26% on a similar calculation basis, all this leading to underlying net profit increase of 39% for the quarter and an underlying EPS of EUR0.08 and a level performance at EUR0.06, excluding the Multon contribution.  

If I turn to our outlook for 2006, let me provide you with some clarity on our restructuring costs. For the quarter, we recorded approximately EUR20 million made up of EUR12 million of tax charges and EUR8 million of non-cash charges. Firstly, on Ireland, in line with our previous communications, (indiscernible) a EUR15 million pretax charge, primarily non-cash, related to the accelerated depreciation. To date, we have recorded approximately EUR8.5 million, which includes 1.7 million in the first quarter of 2006. An additional 7 to EUR8 million will be recorded during the rest of 2006 and into the first quarter of 2007. With that, all charges related to the Irish restructuring will be completed. This project will contribute annual savings of over EUR15 million once fully onstream, which currently we estimate for 2008 with savings already starting to benefit our Irish operations during 2007.  

Then on Greece, we have successfully completed the restructuring initiatives that we announced earlier this year with a total cost, cash and non-cash, of about EUR12 million. These restructuring initiatives, whilst challenging, particularly in our home market, were critically important to support our competitiveness and further drive growth and operating efficiencies for this key market within our portfolio of countries. These initiatives will deliver annual savings in the range of 4 to EUR5 million, starting in 2007.  

In Croatia, we understood a restructuring of the delivery function with our drivers becoming contractors to the business. This benefits us with a more flexible organization while maintaining a high level of service quality and minimal ongoing investments in fleet. This initiative resulted in a cash charge of just over EUR2.5 million with a payback of approximately two years. I would like to remind you all that these savings have been appropriately factored into our long-term growth model, and savings that will start accruing this year have been reflected in the guidance that I provided for the full year in February.  

Now, let me provide you with an update on our outlook for 2006. Although we have had a solid start to the year, the key summer months are yet to come and as always, the second and third quarters are really the main volume and profit contributors to our business results. Furthermore, the macroeconomic environment remains challenging with uncertainties around oil prices, interest rates and of course the commodities market.  

While we continue to closely monitor the developments within the markets, let me spend a few moments discussing these today as where we currently are. PET, generally positive news as we continue to believe that the costs will be lower versus 2005, heavily influenced by the oversupply in Asia and Europe. This was confirmed by softening market conditions during Q1 of last 2006. As indicated in February, we have contracted 85% of our requirements and we plan to use spot purchases to capture opportunity due to further expected softening of prices during the second half of the year in some markets. Oil prices were budgeted at high levels, but a substantial increase would of course impact our cost base. At this stage, a minimum of 2 to 3% improvement versus 2005 is our outlook.  

Looking at sweeteners, the world market where we source close to half of our requirements remains challenging, and prices have reached 25-year highs for reasons partly already mentioned in February -- short crops in major producing countries, speculative fund involvement spurred by increased interest in ethanol as an alternative fuel, etc. But given the continuing market uncertainties, we closed out all of our remaining world market exposure in Europe with commodity risk management strategies during the last quarter. Within our European Union markets, we could secure some additional advantages due to active supplier negotiations, based on the sugar regime changes.  

Given the world market challenges, we now expect a minimum of a 3 to 3.5% increase versus 2005. This compares with the 2% increase versus 2005 that I communicated to you in February.  

Looking at aluminum, prices remain at historical highs and have risen even further, clearly above the 3000 per ton last week, with again some easing off yesterday, again driven by alumina supply deficits, melting capacity shutdowns and speculative fund activities. But as we understand, today's high prices are driving expansion activity in alumina production and sis melting capacity. Alumina is expected to be back in surplus during the second half of 2006 and aluminum prices are expected to begin to soften.  

As mentioned in February, we have locked in our first half-year requirements, well below current market levels, and we have taken some further actions for third quarter to cap a potential further market increase. At this stage, we expect an increase of approximately 8 to 9% over last year versus the earlier guided increase of 5 to 6%. Again, keep in mind that aluminum accounts for about 4 to 5% of our cost of sales. With all that said, we continue to expect solid volume performance for the year with growth of approximately 8% with the new acquisitions of Fresh in Serbia and the addition of the Cypress territory representing about 1.5% of those totals.  

Our guidance is really unchanged here and in line with our organic performance for the first quarter of about 6%. We will continue our focus on revenue growth management through our broad brand pack pricing strategies appropriate for the right channel and occasion. All the more important is (indiscernible) to help mitigate the cost pressures and where appropriate and rational for a particular market, but also the right move for the mid to long-term, we will perhaps need to price to recoup some of the additional costs.  

Despite these challenges then, we continue to be confident in achieving EBIT growth of 11 to 13%, which includes about a 1% contribution from the acquisitions, again unchanged from our guidance that I provided in February.  

Below the EBIT line on interest costs, our mix of debt continues to be weighted more heavily towards floating-rate exposures. We continue to expect short-term interest rates to rise gradually through the rest of the year and have built in such into our projections for a resulting charge of about EUR65 million for the full year.  

As indicated, we are concerned about the surge in commodity prices, which might force the ECB to raise rates more aggressively than anticipated, but we continue to monitor the situation.  

On taxes, as I said, an effective tax rate of 26% for the full year is what we continue to guide towards. This will result in an EPS in the range of EUR1.50 to EUR1.53 as we guided in February, this result really being supported by the strength of our country portfolio, continued focus on driving operating efficiencies, and cost reductions through customer-centric supply chain initiatives, and several other strategic focus areas such as route-to-market and enhancing the commercial capabilities of our sales team.  

With that, Doros and I would be glad to take any questions you might have. Operator, if you can take questions at this stage?  

OPERATOR: We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Ian Shackleton, Lehman Brothers.  

IAN SHACKLETON, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Congratulations on some very good figures today. Two questions from me -- firstly, in terms of the distribution roll-out in Italy, what continued to put pressure on the warehouse and distribution costs for the rest of this year, or will that tail off as we go through the year?  

The second question was about the restructuring costs. With the exception of the accelerated depreciation in Ireland that Nik talked about, should we assume that you've booked everything effective that you've announced at this stage, or should we expect more cash restructuring costs in Q2 and Q3?  

NIK JHANGIANI: It's Nik. In terms of the route to market, we will have some additional costs coming through on the distribution line, but remember, it is purely a reclass because you do have higher net sales revenue realization. In the past, we had to account for the wholesaler discounts as a part of the net sales revenue line. Today, our net sales revenue realization is higher and the distribution costs would be higher as well. So, that's on the first one.  

On the restructuring, Doros?  

IAN SHACKLETON: It's all gone quiet.  

(technical difficulty)  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Can you hear us?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Hello? Ian? This is Doros. Following the restructuring initiatives that we took in Ireland and Greece and Croatia, it's always our plan to look for opportunities to optimize our infrastructure in all of the countries that we have -- (technical difficulty).  

For the time being, we are investigating -- (technical difficulty) -- solutions in certain initiatives that we have. There is nothing final at this stage, so we can't actually talk about any specifics. But Nik will give you some more details about the numbers.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Ian, on additional restructuring that -- (technical difficulty) -- there are initiatives and I would say we -- (technical difficulty) -- coming through in the remainder of the year but largely those should be offset by the gain that we will record in Q2 on the sale of the Dublin facility, which was about 14 million. So there will be charges, but largely offset by those.  

IAN SHACKLETON: Nik, just to clarify, the charges for Greece and Croatia in Q1, that really covers everything that's been announced does it?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Correct. Those are the Greece initiatives that we announced and the delivery outsourcing that we've done in Croatia as well.  

IAN SHACKLETON: Good. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Nick Bevan, Deutsche Bank.  

NICK BEVAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, good afternoon and questions for Nik, please. Nik, you've indicated a higher rate of inflation in terms of both sweeteners and aluminum, but you've held the volume guidance and the EBIT growth guidance. Just to understand what you are saying, are you saying that you are now expecting a higher rate of price inflation to offset the higher commodity costs? Or is the PET guidance and oil guidance implicitly better than you've previously guided on? Because I wasn't quite clear. You had obviously previously indicated that PET would be down, but I'm not sure whether you are really changing your view on that.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Yes, Nick. It's actually a combination of both. One is we will have some potential additional benefits because we have seen further softening of the PET prices, so that should benefit us some to offset some of the increase, the inflationary costs on sugar and aluminum as we know it today.  

Secondly, we will look at other pricing opportunities to recoup some of those costs in markets where it's rational and it makes sense for the mid to long-term as opposed to just short-term recoupment of cost pressures.  

NICK BEVAN: Right. Just to follow up with two questions, I think, on your '05 results conference call, Nik, if I could remember correctly, I think you indicated that you thought the overall impact from commodities on EBIT (indiscernible) profits in this year would be EUR10 million.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Right.  

NICK BEVAN: So would that -- presumably by the sound of it, it would be slightly more than EUR10 million now.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Correct. You are probably looking at something close to 13 to 15 million as what we know today, which we will try and recoup, as I said, through pricing. That number will reflect some of the benefits that will be coming through from PET.  

NICK BEVAN: Right. And final question -- would you be anticipating putting through those price increases in Q2?  

NIK JHANGIANI: I think we continue to look at opportunities and as I said where it makes sense. We already have some pricing built into our plans for Q2 in certain markets, and where it makes sense, again in a particular channel or for particular brands or packs, we will look at those opportunities to try and recoup those costs.  

NICK BEVAN: Okay. I'm sorry. Just one final follow-on -- any particular region that is likely to get the bulk of those extra price increases or would it be broadly spread across the business?  

NIK JHANGIANI: I think it would be broadly spread out where it makes sense.  

OPERATOR: [Sonya Hobo], Goldman Sachs.  

SONYA HOBO, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good afternoon. It's just a quick question. I just wanted to follow up on where you are with rolling out the (indiscernible) in Italy beyond obviously the three initial cities that you started off in.  

The other thing I was going to ask about was just have you had any issues with compliance from wholesalers? Because I think I did see one story at some stage and it was just to find out if that has been an issue or if it's not at all. Thanks.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, Sonya. Now, regarding the route to market in Italy, I would say that it's too early at this stage to see tangible results countrywide. We had run a pilot during 2005 and the results were encouraging, so we worked it out throughout the country. But it's too early to call it a success at this stage. We have encouraging results, but it's too early to call it a success yet.  

We made some concentrated (indiscernible) fund investments in marketing activities and salespeople, etc., during Q1 of '06. We see that it helped us to the successful start obviously of this initiative, and we need to wait for some more time.  

SONYA HOBO: Okay. (multiple speakers) -- sorry.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Regarding the route to market, in relation to that, you asked something about the reaction from the wholesalers I believe.  

SONYA HOBO: Yes.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes. I would say that we have read similar articles in the press about complaints by the wholesalers to the Italian competition authorities regarding our direct distribution system. Well, some of these articles claim also that the Italian authorities have launched their own investigation against the Company for possible violations or abuse of dominant position. Well, we have not been approached by the Italian authorities in relation to this matter, and our policy is to comply with all applicable laws and we believe we have done so in Italy.  

SONYA HOBO: Great, thank you.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: It's important to say that we continue to do business with these wholesalers. We haven't ceased doing business with the wholesalers.  

OPERATOR: Martin [Hu], Morgan Stanley.  

MARTIN HU, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, gentlemen. Just a couple of clarifications on what you've said thus far. Just on the restructuring, are you essentially saying that -- I thought your existing guidance was for 15 million over a full-year basis, but that could be wrong. Are you now sort of saying 35 million offset by a 40 million (indiscernible) profit gain?  

The second part of that was I think you said that if there were cash elements of the incremental restructuring charges to come over the course of the year, that would be offset by that gain. Is that accurate?  

NIK JHANGIANI: No, I'm not sure. I might be getting confused with your own question, but the 15 million that I just referred to is purely related to Ireland. We talked about the cash charges that we took up front back in 2004, and we indicated very clearly that we had about 15 million of accelerated depreciation as we would have to write down equipment in those facilities as we stopped utilizing those facilities and move towards a single-site solution. That 15 million, to date we have incurred about 8.5, including 1.7 million in the first quarter and another 7 or 8 to come to finish off on the Irish restructuring piece.  

MARTIN HU: Right, so there's no other additional restructuring that you (indiscernible) over the course of the year then?  

NIK JHANGIANI: What I said to Ian's question and Doros indicated that was that we have other restructuring initiatives that are in early stages. We continue to look at those opportunities and any additional charges during the months to come will largely be offset by the cash gain that we will have from the sale of the Dublin facility.  

MARTIN HU: Right, so is it right then to say that, at the most, you would be anticipating something like 15 million over the balance of the year?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well plus or minus, I said largely offset by.  

MARTIN HU: Yes, okay. In terms of the sort of use of those cost savings, I would be interested in how you guys are thinking about it, because your guidance implies something like 65 million in incremental EBITDA this year, and you're not getting a lot of margin expansion thus far despite these cost savings having benefited over the course of the year. So is that a timing issue or is it the fact that you feel it's necessary to reinvest some of those savings?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well, we are reinvesting some of the savings, but remember, a lot of those savings, Martin, haven't still come onstream. So if you look at the Irish project for instance, those will really start coming through in 2008 on an annualized basis, and we will start to see some benefits in 2007.  

The Greece one obviously we just completed and those full-year benefits will start coming through in 2007. We will have some benefits coming through in 2006 as well, but that has all been factored into our numbers. So I think our growth this year that you are referring to, while part of that is coming from savings or operating efficiencies, a lot of that is coming from strong organic volume growth, continued pricing opportunities that we take advantage of in several of our key markets, and just continued leverage for our P&L.  

MARTIN HU: Okay. One final thing -- if you could help us with just the approximate profitability or the additional profitability from Multon in the quarter, or just let us know whether or not it's a similar sort of margin or a larger margin than the other sort of emerging market businesses -- (multiple speakers).  

NIK JHANGIANI: It's pretty much in line with the average of the emerging market businesses, and we've indicated, at the net profit level, that they contribute about $0.02 for the quarter.  

MARTIN HU: Okay, so I would be right in thinking that organic profit growth for the Group is of the order of about 7.5, 7.7%, something like that?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Organic net profit, or what level are you talking about?  

MARTIN HU: I'm sorry, EBITDA growth.  

NIK JHANGIANI: No, I indicated that, if you excluded Multon, it was probably up a couple of points at the EBIT level.  

MARTIN HU: Right, okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Chris Pitcher, UBS.  

CHRIS PITCHER, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: (technical difficulty) -- could I just -- (technical difficulty) -- a couple of points (indiscernible) on Multon? Now, I mean, in the statement, you say that the majority of the operating profit growth in the emerging markets comes from progress in Russia and Multon -- (technical difficulty) -- clarify -- (technical difficulty) -- in entirety. That's what I'm trying to find out. Then, following on, in terms of your guidance, if I look at your guidance and run that down, it implies (indiscernible) earnings per share target. I think that the minorities step down quite meaningfully. Can you talk about the development of profitability in Nigeria? Because I would have expected pricing to be coming through there and profitabilities benefiting, whether that actually Nigeria is proving to be quite a significant or more of a significant growth or profit growth than maybe otherwise thought.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Yes. On the Multon one, again, at the EBIT level, we have indicated that, excluding the Multon contribution, our organic EBIT was up a couple of points. So we did have growth, given the challenging macro situations as well as the fact that we have invested quite significantly behind the operating expense line, particularly sales and distribution. As I indicated on the EPS line, the Multon contribution was about $0.02.  

CHRIS PITCHER: Just -- (technical difficulty) -- backing that out, it would indicate 5 million of EBIT contribution from Multon, because (indiscernible) emerging markets -- (technical difficulty) -- without any growth. (indiscernible) whereabouts profit growth in the emerging markets -- (technical difficulty) .  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well you know, your numbers are roughly right. I mean, the math is the math. But if you look across the markets, we have had growth coming through on the top line, but there has been a lot of investment behind operating models, such as sales and distribution expenses, even in markets like Russia for instance.  

The other thing you need to keep in mind if you look at a market like Nigeria, volumes were actually down in that market about 10%. We did loose several trading days in that market because of a national population census. There was also some civil unrest that occurred during the first quarter, so we actually were down volume about 10% for the quarter in that market.  

CHRIS PITCHER: Even with the price increase, that was not -- (technical difficulty) -- to recoup at EBIT, so it's Nigeria that is the big drag on -- (multiple speakers).  

NIK JHANGIANI: Nigeria is driving that number down, clearly.  

CHRIS PITCHER: (indiscernible) backing this out, your EBIT guidance, your interest guidance, your tax guidance to get to EPS guidance (indiscernible) minority is something that reached the 3 to 4 million, which is a significant stepdown. I am just wondering -- (technical difficulty).  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well, I don't think it's going to be that low, so we need to look at your model maybe off-line and try and discuss that, but there's no way the minority line would be that low. It would potentially be in line with last year or maybe even slightly higher, given the fact that Nigeria should be improving. That's primarily where the minorities line is made up of. So if you want, we can look at your model off-line to try and figure that out.  

CHRIS PITCHER: No problem. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: [Lauren Torez], HSBC.  

LAUREN TOREZ, ANALYST, HSBC: Good afternoon. Just to follow up on your pricing initiatives for the rest of the year, you had good price realization in the quarter but just as we think out the rest of the quarters of the year, particularly for your developing and emerging markets, I know it depends on market and brand but if you could just give us a sense, directionally. Is it very similar to what we saw in the quarter or do you expect some swings in pricing?  

NIK JHANGIANI: No, Lauren, it would actually be similar and actually improving, if you look at the rest of the quarters, because we have taken pricing in a number of our markets in the first quarter but in other markets, we have not taken much and do plan increases during the second quarter. In a market like Nigeria, we're looking at potentially an increase in the third quarter again. So I would actually indicate to you that the trends that you've seen in the first quarter should actually be relevant if not improving.  

LAUREN TOREZ: Okay, great. Also too, I am not sure if it's premature to ask but what your outlook looks as far as costs, raw material costs I guess that is for 2007.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well, a little early to give you indications on that. You know, while we understand, on the PET side, the overall in street does show that resin prices should go down next year, the biggest unknown is obviously the crude oil price, which will have an effect on the whole industry. But I think we will have some more information around July/August on that.  

On sweeteners, for instance, we've already protected our world markets exposure in Europe and taken out some covers for ourselves for 2007 and I think we should actually be able to do better than what the market seems to be indicating it will be going up to, given the coverage that we're taking.  

On aluminum, you know, today's high prices are clearly, from what we understand, driving expansion in the aluminum production and smelting capacity, which we believe should start bringing the prices down in the second half of year and clearly into next year. So, where appropriate, we are already taking measures to protect ourselves for 2007.  

LAUREN TOREZ: Okay. Then just lastly, if you could comment on the Traficante deal? I know it's in the midst of getting regulatory approval but if there's any hindrance there that this will go through or not.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, hello, this is Doros. The Italian authority has wanted some more information about the package (indiscernible) market in Italy before they make their decision. We are cooperating with them closely to give them all of the information they require for the approval of this transaction. We are confident and we believe that we will close soon; we just cannot estimate the specific time. And we don't believe there's anything that would not let the Italian authorities to go ahead and approve it. It's just that they want more information and at this stage, we don't want to speculate any time of completion.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Normally, the maximum time for this type of proceeding in Italy is about 45 days, Lauren, so we don't -- we hope that the decision will not result in any significant delays.  

LAUREN TOREZ: Okay, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Josh Cahill, Portolan Capital Management.  

JOSH CAHILL, ANALYST, PORTOLAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Congratulations on operating in a tough environment here. Just as a follow-on to the sweetener issue, it sounds like you've got PET well under control and you talked about aluminum having probably attracted more supply. But when you look at the sweetener market, do you have any leanings towards hedging on a longer-term basis, given what we are seeing in the, as you mentioned, the ethanol market, etc.? How far could you go out in hedging your exposure there?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Today, we have just gone out through 2007, and I think we do work at the part of a cross-enterprise procurement group that looks up all of the bottlers within the Coke system. We've got some information through them that we're working on in trying to protect ourselves, at least for 2007. So we've taken out some hedge positions for 2007 for the world market -- (multiple speakers).  

JOSH CAHILL: That's great. That coverage is substantially overall?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Right, because remember, we buy 50% of our requirements through the world market and 50% through the EU, which is at a regulated price. So the one wild card really to speak about is Nigeria at this point, but we look at alternatives and strategies there as well.  

JOSH CAHILL: Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Lambros Papadopoulos, Citigroup.  

LAMBROS PAPADOPOULOS, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Good afternoon. A couple of questions -- first of all, with regards to the current trading environment, if you could give us a feel of whether you have been impacted by the (indiscernible) sever weather in some of the markets, in your emerging markets like Bulgaria and Romania, or even the late arrival of the summer in some of your established markets like Greece.  

And the second question is with regards to the impact of the Turin Olympics on the Italian volumes in the first quarter.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Hi, Lambros. This is Doros. I will take your first question. I would say that we saw a severe winter in Russia and certain parts of Eastern Europe at the beginning of this year, which was really tough. But, we were able to, through the rest of our countries, to cover that shortage in sales and showed that we can grow the business overall by a healthy percentage.  

We don't really believe that there is a weather issue in Q2. Maybe it's not as hot as one would expect at this early part of the year, but our business is doing well. So, I have no reason to express any concerns about the countries that you just mentioned.  

LAMBROS PAPADOPOULOS: (multiple speakers)  

NIK JHANGIANI: I'm sorry, you had a question on -- (multiple speakers)?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, Turin Olympics. The Turin Olympics and similar events, they are more an opportunity for the business to increase awareness with consumers, create some excitement, improve brand equity building. This is the kind of thing that we expect out of these events and not as much as increased consumption, because they are for a limited time, for a limited period of time. And yes, there may be some increased consumption but not as much as to affect and influence our overall performance of the Group. Having 27 countries, it's quite a big number of consumers. So yes, it's a good opportunity but none that would affect our volumes.  

LAMBROS PAPADOPOULOS: You would say it was a neutrally event for the Italian business for the first quarter in both volumes and profitability?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Well, the volume growth we saw in Italy was positive, but I would not attribute that to the Winter Olympics. It was in the northern part of the country; it was well activated, etc., but I don't think that there were so many people there that they would really consume so much to influence our overall volume in the Italian market for the quarter.  

LAMBROS PAPADOPOULOS: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: [Kostas Theodoru], National Securities.  

KOSTAS THEODORU, ANALYST, NATIONAL SECURITIES: Good afternoon. I have one question on the developing markets. Was there any benefit on currency this quarter compared to last year? I recall it was about a couple of million last year. With respect to Croatia and the (indiscernible) recycling requirements, is something more of -- is this something that's going to have some more effects during the year? That's my first question.  

My second question is on the commodity costs (indiscernible) the clarification. You had said that about 10 million of extra impact apart from the volume would be coming mostly on the first quarter of this year. Now, the numbers look a little bit adjusted upwards but would you still hold that the great bulk of -- the great part of this 10 million came on the first quarter this year? Thank you very much.  

NIK JHANGIANI: It's Nik. I will take the second question first in terms of the commodities. Yes. As I indicated, that number is slightly higher now and probably less came through in the first quarter, given some of the favorable pricing that we had on the PET side and the fact that, even if we look at sugar or aluminum, today, we are probably enjoying or in the first quarter enjoyed lower prices than what we are expecting for the rest of the year. So I think some of that is probably shifting into later quarters, but we did have a healthy number go through and impact our first-quarter performance as well. So -- but more to come on that.  

On your question in terms of developing market, currency did impact us favorably by probably a couple of million in total for the Group. I would say largely that came through in the developing and some amount in the emerging market, but nothing substantial. Again, if I look at the full year, we are not expecting a huge impact from currency at all in 2005 -- 2006, as we know it today.  

Lastly, on the environmental point on Croatia, the upfront investments that we've had to make actually were what caused some of the issues in the profitability side in Croatia. We have had to take and will have to take prices up in certain packs, given those changes, and there could be an impact on the business. But I would say, at this point, those are appropriately factored into our guidance for the full year.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). [Theo Varetta], [Investment Bank] Greece.  

THEO VARETTA, ANALYST, [INVESTMENT BANK] GREECE: Yes, hi. Congratulations for your results. A question -- if you can take us through a little bit on your pricing strategy going forward. I noticed revenue per case is up, is adjusted for currency 3%. Your (indiscernible) model is assuming lower price increase every year. Has anything changed? Have you seen any (indiscernible) the competitive environment moving towards your favor longer-term? Do you think your pricing can move forward, apart from this year, at a slightly higher pace? How is competition doing in terms of pricing, especially in developing and emerging markets?  

NIK JHANGIANI: It's Nik. On pricing, you know, we generally are still following our overall principle of being able to price in line with inflation and continuing to hopefully get benefits from mix. The first quarter for us, we clearly did have strong pricing. Remember that we did not take pricing in our developing markets last year.  

THEO VARETTA: Sure.  

NIK JHANGIANI: And in some instances in our established markets, too, we were a little careful on pricing. The environment seems to have absorbed those well and we continue to look at those opportunistically and I think we are also taking a look in a very targeted and in a specific way, looking at particular brands and packs and channels and occasions that are appropriate for us to take pricing on. If you look at the competitive environment, a big part that plays in our favor is the fact that we do have a big bulk of our business coming on the immediate consumption side, which is typically where the competition isn't. So while the pricing flexibility is limited on the future consumption side, we continue to look at opportunities on the immediate consumption side to be able to take pricing. So, still in line with our strategy but I think we continue to look at opportunities and in an environment like this where we've got significant cost pressures, we want to do what's right for the consumer. Where it's appropriate, we believe we can recoup those costs without necessarily adversely impacting the volumes to much, we will do that.  

THEO VARETTA: Thanks, Nik. How is your competition with their pricing this year into different segments?  

NIK JHANGIANI: I think it varies by market, but generally, I would say the environment is such in terms of cost pressures that everybody has had to move with prices, you know? In the past where, if we looked at the developing markets where there wasn't much of a move, given the big increase we had in sugar for instance, today, it's on aluminum; it's on PET. Those are the packages they are selling. They've been forced to take pricing as well to be able to remain competitive, or even remain in business in some of those markets. So, they have kind of followed similar trends.  

THEO VARETTA: Okay, that's great. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). We have no further questions at this time. Please continue.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Well, thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We are pleased to have been able to discuss these positive results with you, and we look forward to updating you on our performance over the coming quarters. Finally, we look forward to seeing some of you at the Russian field trip next week for what we hope to be a very interesting and informative visit in these exciting markets. Thank you, and good-bye.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude our conference for today. For those of you wishing to review this conference, the replay facility you can access by dialing the UK on 1452-5500-00, or the U.S. toll-free number of 1-866-247-4222. The reservation number is 1602505, followed by the # key. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company | hellbo : Coca Cola E.E.E. S.A.
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060530e25g00108
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,139 words
   PD
19 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2006 earnings results conference call.  

All participants will be in listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions.  

I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.  

ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for being with us today. I'm pleased to be joined by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer.  

Following our prepared remarks this morning, we will the call over for your questions.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report.  

In addition, I would also like to call you attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our Company Web site at cocacola.com in the Investor section which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look at our Web site for this information.  

Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning.  

I hope you had a chance to review the release that we issued this morning. We're not going to spend too much time on the details because my intention this morning is, first of all, to make a few observations about the quarterly results and then Gary, as normal, will follow with an overview of the financials and some additional perspective on the current year on 2006.  

I'm pleased to report to you this morning that we've achieved yet another solid quarter of top line growth.  

We continue to see improvements in our execution across the globe and our results, once again, benefited from the geographic diversity of our business. As a result, we were able to deliver unit case volume growth ahead of our long-term targets even with the shift of the Easter holiday into the second quarter.  

That top line growth is also translating into improving revenue performance. Now that may not be immediately apparent in reported revenue growth, and Gary's going to touch on this in just a minute. But keep in mind that we had a negative 3% currency impact and a negative 2% structural change impact in the quarter.  

I'm please to note that the improved revenue performance is also beginning to flow through to the bottom line.  

We delivered currency-neutral ongoing operating income growth of 6% which is within our long-term targets. And we did this even as we continued to support our brands through solid marketing investments and saw the impact of softness in our Georgia coffee business in Japan.  

Unit case volume growth in the quarter was led by continued strong growth in key emerging markets including China, Russia, Turkey and Brazil. In addition and equally encouraging is the strength of some of our more developed markets.  

North America grew 2% and delivered solid top and bottom line P&L results. Mexico grew 8% through the strength of trademark Coca-Cola and a total CSD growth of 6%. And Australia delivered double-digit trademark Coke growth through the tremendous success that we've had of the Coke Zero rollout.  

Finally, I'm encouraged by the progress made this quarter in Northwest Europe as the region was able to reverse declines from prior year and grow 1% in the quarter. Most importantly, I'm confidant that the business is on a solid base heading into 2006 and that we are on track to deliver our objectives.  

To give a little more perspective on the quarter I want to highlight three areas for your attention: Carbonated soft drink trends, progress on non-carbs and our marketing and innovation pipeline. Firstly, CSD trends.  

Globally, our CSD trends are heading in the right direction. Last year, as you know, for the first time since 2000, we grew unit case volume for CSDs in excess of 2%.  

This quarter we accelerated the trend and grew CSDs 3% with regulars and diet growth of 3% and 5% respectively. As a result, CSDs contributed more than 50% of our total growth in the quarter led by our Coke, Sprite and Fanta trademarks.  

From a share standpoint, we continue to see improvements as both the absolute volume and value share increases this quarter represent a full one point positive swing in the trends from the first quarter of last year.  

In Latin America, CSD growth continued to drive results. Trademark Coke across the group grew over 6% in the quarter as strong marketing plans and excellent bottler execution drove share gains.  

In North America carbonated beverages were slightly positive with solid pricing behind that in the marketplace. Importantly, we're doing very well in immediate consumption with share gains coming through stepped up innovation and with foodservice volume growing mid single digits.  

In Australia, some of you may have been keeping up with the success that we've seen on Coke Zero. This brand has been an enormous success and demonstrates the true power of the brand Coca-Cola and of our marketing and of our system execution.  

In a market with total CSD per capita consumption close to 500, trademark Coke grew by double digits this quarter thanks to the efforts of the entire team there and some insights that we learned form the North American launch of Coke Zero.  

Now even in Northwest Europe where we are addressing considerable operational headwinds, carbonated soft drinks grew 1% in the quarter contributing to overall business growth there. And, of course, I already mentioned countries like Chine, Turkey and Russia which continue to show very strong growth.  

Now let me talk about our non-carb portfolio. We're also making very solid progress in this portfolio on the platforms of sports drinks, water and juice and juice drinks, and all of them grew double digits for the quarter.  

POWERade, Dasani and Minute Maid once again delivered strong results and we continue to see solid results from other important brands. Brands such as Aquarius and Bonaqua which are largely in Europe.  

Both of these grew double digits in the quarter and we continue to believe that we have strong growth ahead for these brands.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Because of the progress we've made in the categories, our non-CSD beverages as a percentage of our total beverage portfolio advanced another 100 basis points during the quarter, and that is also considering the fact that we've had CSD growth.  

Now once again this quarter we improved global share in every one of our key non-carb categories with one exception, teas and coffees, and I'm going to touch on that in just a minute. We also increased value share ahead of volume share in the majority of these categories as we increase our focus on margin enhancing opportunities.  

The one outlier on our non-carb growth was Georgia coffee, in which our results came in below our expectations for the quarter.  

Now last Fall, Japan launched a campaign to recruit [newer] users to Georgia coffee. It was a risk. There was a bold new look that was rolled out and a whole new marketing campaign.  

Unfortunately, it did not meet our expectations and that's a possibility that always exists when we take risks. And as the new look and the new message actually confused our core consumer base as we tried to widen that base.  

In the first quarter we felt the full impact as the initial offtake slowed. So we're now working aggressively to address the situation by implementing a fully integrated relaunch to be supported by our refocus on core flavors, a new advertising campaign, and some new product introductions.  

We expect these plans to be implemented by the first of May and, therefore, we believe Japan will return to growth in the second quarter. Now obviously, I'm disappointed our results in Japan weren't better but I believe that the quarter demonstrates some very important changes in our business.  

First, we're taking more risks in seeking new ways to grow with the business. And second, when those risks don't meet our expectations, we're able to learn the right lessons from them and to move quickly and decisively to recover from them.  

And finally, and most importantly, even with taking these risks we still are able to deliver solid overall results.  

Now talk about the marketing and the innovation pipeline. I wanted to briefly mention the improvements in our marketing and innovation pipelines, specifically in North America, but also around the world.  

Since the end of 2005 we've introduced significant new products including Coke Blak in France and in the U.S. just recently, Tab Energy, Vault, Dasani Sensations, and Simply Lemonade in the U.S. We've also launched in North America the first fully integrated cross media campaign for brand Coke in our Company's history, "The Coke Side of Life" supported by an increased level of marketing investment.  

I previously mentioned our launch of Coke Zero in Australia which has been highly successful as our entire system mobilized to launch this product. Let me give you some numbers on this.  

In a matter of days our bottling partners reset 50,000 [ipeds], placed 5,000 new coolers and built 1500 displays. Behind that we invested heavily in ad support through TV and media and a strong outdoor campaign.  

As I already mentioned, the results of this we grew Coke brand overall by double digits in the quarter. So let's take Coke Zero.  

Trial has been 50%. Now that compares with an average for an FMCG launch of 8% and over 30% of consumers have now become weekly drinkers.  

Now I go into this for a few reasons. There are details here that I think are important.  

It demonstrates what our system's capable of achieving when we work closely together. It demonstrates that even in a developed market we can generate strong double-digit CSD growth and it demonstrates the power of our Company to leverage ideas around the world and learn through that process, all issues that I've mentioned to you in the past.  

Because using insights from North America we focused heavily on the real taste and no sugar concept and we're now taking these learnings from Australia, and we will be applying them to Western Europe where we will launch Coke Zero in Great Britain this summer.  

In summary, this quarter underscores that we are on track to meet out long-term growth targets. These strong introductions combined with the equally strong pipeline of innovation in both our carbonated and non-carbonated beverage brands give me confidence that we will achieve our business objectives, and in doing so, creates sustained growth and value for the benefit of our shareowners and our stakeholders.  

Let me now just turn the call over to Gary. Gary? Thanks, Neville, and good morning.  

As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.47 on a diluted basis for the first quarter, an increase of 12%. This included a $0.02 impact primarily related to non-cash impairment of some assets in the bottling investments operating group in Asia.  

Therefore, our adjusted EPS after considering these items was $0.49 per share, an increase of 4% over the prior year.  

At the net revenue line we reported revenue even with the prior year but there are a few things specifically impacting the revenue number. First was a negative 2% impact of structural change which was primarily from the transfer in Spain of the canning rights to our bottlers, which effectively moved that portion of the business to a concentrate model, having no material impact on our gross profit or operating income.  

You may recall that we disclosed that we were going to make that change, disclosed that in our 2005 10-K.  

And secondly, relative to revenue currency had a negative 3% impact. Therefore, net revenue on a comparable basis increased 5% and if you look at that, that's on gallon growth of 4% plus 1 point of price and mix.  

Within price mix there are really two factors. On the plus side was positive pricing and very good product mix in many markets such as North America, Australia and Latin America. However, with Georgia coffee coming in below expectations, as Neville said, it did have an impact on country and product mix.  

We grew operating income by 3% on a reported basis. As I mentioned previously, we incurred a charge in the quarter so after considering items impacting comparability in the current and prior year quarter, operating income increased 2%.  

We were also impacted by a negative 4% effect from currencies, so on a currency neutral basis we grew operating income 6% in the quarter within our long-term targets.  

In the quarter we repurchased approximately half a billion dollars of our stock. As a result, our average shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2006 were about 44 million shares lower than the average in 2005 adding 2 percentage points to our earnings per share growth in the quarter.  

In terms of dividends, the board raised the quarterly dividend 11% to $0.31 per common share, which is equivalent to an annual dividend of $1.24 per share, up $0.12 per share from the last year.  

I also wanted to touch on the first quarter cash flow statement. You will see a decline in cash from operations, and it's driven by an increase in working capital on a year-over-year basis.  

The increase was really driven by just a few key items. First was the settlement of the stepped up marketing accruals from the prior year along with timing of a few other marketing payments this year, and that is really a result of the stepped up 400 million of incremental marketing that we had last year.  

You may recall that Neville and I talked about that, that most of that would actually hit the market in the fourth quarter and you're now seeing that come through as we make those payments in the first quarter of this year. So a one-time item, if will you, on the cash flow statement.  

Second was a tax payment of about $200 million related to the tax repatriation that we did last year as well. We accrued that at the end of the year, made the payment in the first quarter, and therefore, again, another one-time item relative to cash flow.  

And finally, we are lapping the timing of a one-time insurance payment of 75 million that was received in the first quarter of 2005. So if you consider all three of those you will see that all pretty much one-time and cash flow still strong.  

Now let me address a few other factors that we see impacting our outlook for 2006. As Neville stated, and as we outlined in the release, with the progress to date in the pipeline that we have in place, we believe we're on track to deliver against our objectives.  

Our read on the macroeconomic outlook for the year remains relatively positive, especially in many of our emerging markets. The only caveat continues to be economic trends in Western Europe, which we believe will have muted growth for the year.  

For input costs, we continue to see upward pressure, but we're actively managing those pressures. Although we do expect to see some increase we believe it will be in a reasonable range.  

SG&A.  

SG&A increased 2% in the quarter on a reported basis and 4% after considering items impacting comparability. Those items are primarily in the bottling investment group.  

These trends reflect increasing investments in marketing, partially offset by a 3% decrease in currency. What I'd say on SG&A is that we've continued to invest behind the brands.  

You also are seeing an increase, substantial increase, because of structural change within the bottling investment group in sales and service, and then when you boil it down to general and administrative expenses, we have gotten leverage in that area with actually a decrease from the prior year quarter in G&A on a currency neutral basis.  

With regard to taxes, we ended up the quarter with an underlying tax rate of 24%. Our best estimate for the remainder of 2006 is that the underlying rate will continue to be 24%.  

Now let me move to currency. We saw a negative impact from currency for the quarter on operating income of 4% after considering items impacting comparability.  

This was slightly better than our initial expectations, as we're able to benefit from an effective hedging strategy that mitigated some of the overall downside. We continue to put coverage in place and are effectively covered now through the first half of 2006 on the euro and the yen.  

Based on spot rates as of last Friday, and the expected impact on the coverage in place, the negative impact on operating income would be approximately 3% for the full year 2006, including the impact of the first quarter. And on share repurchase we continue to expect to repurchase between 2 and $2.5 billion of our stock.  

Before I close, I wanted to touch on our Form 8-K that we filed two weeks ago which contained the additional segment details for the bottling investment group under the leadership of Irial Finan. Besides throwing many of your models into disarray, I hope you're able to walk away with some of the same conclusions that we've reached several moths ago which was the impetus for Irial's role.  

There's no doubt that a business representing close to 20% of our revenues, and with negative margins, provide significant opportunities to improve, and I think thanks to Irial's leadership we're addressing that issue. And as you can see from the first quarter results are already making strides to improve those margins.  

That's it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning. Now if I could turn it over to the Operator for the questions. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Our first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi. Good morning, everybody.  

Neville, a question on Germany. In the press release it cites that about -- relative uncertainties around the mandatory deposit legislation change, so I'd like to know if there's an update there on that situation and also if you can give us an update on your progress on consolidating bottlers there?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Good morning, Bryan.  

Bryan, the reference that we're making with regard to the deposit changes which comes in May 1, is that it certainly is going to, to some degree, discombobulate the trade because various players are going to react in different ways and consumer preferences are going to change around. So we think there's a level of uncertainty around that with regard to the package mix.  

For example, we are relaunching cans. Now, certain of the discounters will probably not stock cans, but there will be aggressive competition, we believe, from the like of supermarkets with regard to cans. So that's one piece.  

We are actually in a very good position to be able to answer all of those needs, but again, are the consumers going to go back to cans in the sort of volumes that existed before the deposit -- before the new law came in? Probably not. That was about 21% of our mix.  

So because it's going to be a moving situation, and not everyone has decided exactly what they're going to stock we're just highlighting that as causing some confusion in the quarter. We don't think that that's going to significantly change any of our overall results in Germany, because we planned for this, we knew that that was going to happen and we're still on track with regard to our overall plans in Germany. Of course --  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Has there been any change in timing in terms of implementation?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, it may leak into June, but it's going to be a second quarter event largely. And, of course, we've got the World Cup coming up, which is a real positive with regard to Germany, which I'd like to highlight.  

We're making generally very good progress in the German market. We are now available in all the discounters, Barr, Aldi, which have never stocked brands, although now they're discussing stocking brands.  

So the German situation we think is pretty positive. You would note there was a 1% decline. I don't think that's material given that by the way parts of Germany were closed down with record snowfalls, then you've got the movement of Easter, et cetera. So the German recovery, I would say, is on track.  

Second part of your question, Bryan, those discussions are ongoing. They are very cooperative discussions. I actually spoke to the head of the bottlers association just last week. We've got some follow-up meetings coming through.  

I would anticipate that we're going to know one way or another sometime around August, September whether we've actually finalized and closed and there should be some interim announcements before then, but it has cleared the air in terms of the ongoing working relationship, which I think is very important.  

They have indicated to us that they are working in the marketplace as if we were one system regardless of where we're going to come out with the negotiations, and I think that's really what you should look at. I'm still hopeful but until the ink is dry one doesn't have an agreement.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Remember, of course, that one of the larger entities, Bremmen, we did acquire, so that has moved that process forward by, you know, a considerable degree. Thanks, Bryan.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody. Couple of questions.  

Gallons shipped were below case sales. Can we assume that that will catch up during the year?  

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Caroline. Gary.  

Yes. And in fact let me address this. And this is going to sound a little technical but the case sales that we report in the first quarter are average daily sales.  

It's kind of like what you would call same store sales, because the way we report on a four-four-five close, there was actually one less day in the first quarter of this year and there'll be one more day in the fourth quarter of this year. If you actually went to actual cases instead of average daily sales cases, they're actually four and four, and so they're right in line.  

CAROLINE LEVY: They're right in line. Okay. So there won't necessarily be extra gallon shipments in the second quarter as a result of this?  

GARY FAYARD: No, no.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Can we also talk a little bit about the cost opportunity in Germany with or without the consolidation of the rest of the bottlers?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: That is very clearly something that is high on Irial Finan's agenda. There are a couple of elements to that.  

One is, of course, the integration with Bremmen. We saw that there were synergies there and that we're going to be able to bring those to the bottom line. I think you'll see some of that coming through, through the year.  

Secondly, looking at the overall structuring of the German business, and we're currently actually in discussions with the supervisory board which, as you would know, also involves the union representatives, about how we can improve our go to market and rationalization.  

There's then a third piece which, frankly, we would not see too much of in '06 but for which we are planning and that is, if we do sign with the bottlers there'll be a more significant ability to save costs at the bottling side.  

I actually think, given the level of cooperation that we have in discussions with the bottlers even if we don't bring about a one-bottler system that we will have consolidation savings coming through. Because what this exercise has shown to the independent bottlers is the fact that there are opportunities and that's why in the negotiations -- and again, a deal is not finalized. Remember that.  

Most of those who have indicated they're willing to sign have actually said that they want to take shares, in other words, still be part of the future of the bottler. And that therein indicates their confidence in the plans that we have for a bottler that's going to have improved profitability.  

So I can't give you numbers, Caroline, but there are sort of three elements to that, and obviously it's a major focus. It's a major focus for me, as you know, I'm involved in the discussions. But also it's a major focus for Irial.  

The final point I'd make is, of course, we did bring in new management and they have highlighted a number of areas of savings which they're going to implement in '06.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.  

And just Japan. Was part of the problem in Japan that Georgia coffee is particularly profitable and, you know, is that going to be, therefore, a drag on the second quarter profitability, because by the time you relaunch, et cetera, you've still got that continued drag there?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I mean, Georgia coffee is a very profitable brand, there's no question about that, but we don't think there will be a drag either on profitability or on volume in the second quarter.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you so much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody.  

Question on North America are you satisfied with the market share trends and how the innovation thus far is performing, execution of CCE just in the backdrop of what the overall LRB industry growth has been as you look out over the balance of the year, you're still going to be rolling out a number of new products.  

And then just a second question for Gary. On the SG&A line you said there was leverage in the G&A part. Can you just let us know on the DME how much that was up in the quarter? Thanks.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Good morning, Bill.  

I mean North America is still work in progress and is obviously a work in progress in terms of issues with the bottlers, in terms of POWERade, et cetera. If we take CCE they are still settling in the reorganization that took place in the middle of last year in terms of improving their route to market and improving their effectiveness particularly in the on-premise trade.  

You'll have seen, though, if you look at some of the share numbers, [pru] shares and convenience and petroleum, for example, which reflects that the new organization is working.  

There is some difference in some of the share numbers. Nielsen, of course, gives you one picture, but all of the other share numbers that we've seen, overall, if you look at our total portfolio, that would include foodservice, we have in the quarter, where the latest numbers we have up to the end of the quarter show a positive share swing of .3 of 1% for the overall portfolio. So we've got to be happy with that.  

I think we're also happy with the initial success of Vault, of Tab Energy, obviously of Full Throttle. Now we have the rollout of Fury and that's allowed us to gain share, pretty significant share in the energy category. If you look at the energy category, Bill, if you think back to the beginning of '05, we had less than 1% share.  

Now if you pull it all together, including Rock Star, Van Deutsche, Full Throttle, Tab Energy, and you can put Coke Blak in and out of that category as you wish, but I mean we're a clear number two, I mean that's a major success in a very short period of time, and I think speaks volumes for the ability to execute.  

Am I happy with where we are? No, not yet. We still, you know, have issues out there. We still have gaps.  

You can see them as you go around the marketplace, but the good news is that there's no difference of opinion around that with regard to our major bottling partners. They see it, too, and we're working together, and much more cooperatively than I think, they will tell you, much more cooperatively than they have in years.  

Don't pick the number but it's quite a long number of years. And that, I think, is an important piece of the equation.  

I'll hand over to Gary for the second part of the question.  

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Bill.  

Relative to the SG&A line in the quarter, both sales and service and marketing, and when I talk about marketing, it would be direct marketing and other marketing, so total marketing were both up mid single digits, mid to higher single digits actually in the quarter than with G&A down.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Gary, would that be a good number to use that type of growth rate for the balance of the year as well what you were trending in the first quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, I think it will, Bill, because, you know, the marketing is on the sales curve, the sales and service is really from both some growth but particularly structural change from acquisition of Bremmen, for example, that Neville talked about, so I would say that's a trend you would see for the rest of the year.  

And it's where, it's actually higher than what you would expect out of our earnings bottle, if you will, but it's where we're able to actually balance our portfolio across the world and get some leverage out of G&A and then reinvest that behind the brands.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, I just wanted to actually make one more point, what I think is important, not just for North America but something you'll see in other developed markets.  

It really -- it feeds off the energy category but also Coke Blak, and that is the fact that we have launched a number of much higher margin but lower volume brands into the marketplace. So there's a mix of innovation coming in, obviously in the volume, and we had good profitability out of it, sections with the likes of the Coke Zero, for example, but then there's this other leg where we're not looking for strong volume metric growth because they're niches, but high value and therefore margin growth overall.  

So that's an element you want to keep your eye on as we go forward because I think it's very important in terms of the strategy, As I said, for North America and other developed markets, and you see that coming through in the first quarter in the North American results.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much.  

A question on North America. The product mix was certainly favorable and we saw good operating leverage in the quarter. Can you comment a little bit about maybe the contributions from non-carbs or POWERade and energy drinks in the quarter?  

What's a reasonable level of operating leverage for the remainder of the year? Is this a good indicator? And just confirm if energy drinks are, in fact, included in your carbonated soft drink volumes being up slightly in the first quarter. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Christine, it's Gary.  

Couple of things. Number one, going in reverse order, the energy drink category is included in the CSD growth rates.  

Secondly, relative to operating results of North America, there are a couple of things there. Number one, there were some one-time items in the prior year around accelerated stock option amortization, which you may remember.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Yes.  

GARY FAYARD: Which is actually making the reported numbers in North America look higher. So on a comparable basis, if will you, North America is showing 19% increase in operating income, comparable would be about 13%. Within that you're seeing a strong mix benefit from the energy category as well as the other innovation in CSD that we've rolled out.  

So I would say it's -- we will not maintain that kind of growth rate for the full-year in North America, because you've got some pipeline fill as the innovation was going in in the first quarter, but we're very satisfied with where North America is for the quarter, and I think we'll be very happy with it for the year.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Gary, maybe the pipeline fill you're talking about is Coke Blak or something else, but how does Coke view the marketing push and trial of Coke Blak relative to some of your other product?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Christine, it really is too early. I can only give you anecdotal evidence. That is that there are really two views. There are people who like it and there are people who don't like it.  

But that polarizing is actually important because those that I've talked to, and as I say, this is anecdotal, and I get this from other people who've talked to people, those who like it really like it. And I think that's the only first encouragement we have. And I mean we are looking at a targeted offering with high margins.  

So if we can get just 1 or even 2% at the high of consumers who are in that box, that is going to feed through to the bottom line in a major way even though it may not give a strong uptick on the volume side. As Gary said, energy's in there, but remember, on a volume basis, but energy's not a high volume contributor, but it is a margin contributor.  

In France, though, where we are able to give some numbers, we're doing extremely well to the extent that we've had out of stocks and we're looking at new capacity coming in to be able to try and meet demand for the peak season. So the early signs out of France are very good because we launched there about two months -- just over two months ago, so we've got some read on that, and that is very positive.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Good morning, everyone.  

Focusing a little bit on the operating leverage piece here, Gary, if you look at it you're delivering basically 6% currency neutral revenue, 6% currency neutral operating profit. Is the factor in terms of limiting leverage, you talked a little bit about limiting marketing spend. Is it more of an regional issue this quarter and as we see Japan get better, and I know the U.K. is still up in the air, should we expect to get a little bit more leverage going forward off of these revenue numbers?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, well first, good morning.  

Yes, you're absolutely right. In fact, I kind of mentioned that looking at price mix, if you will, out of the revenue, we got one point of pricing, price mix, if will you, and I made reference to the impact of Japan.  

If you look at some very high revenue, high profitability markets, and you look at Japan being down two points in the quarter, Germany down a point in the quarter, Northwest Europe up one point in the quarter, all of those are very highly profitable markets. And as we turn them, and as Neville said, we're expecting growth out of Japan starting second quarter with some of the relaunch of new marketing campaign on Georgia with the Easter shift and hopefully a lot better weather than what the first quarter was for Germany and with some encouraging news out of Northwest Europe, we would expect to see better margin characteristics in our price mix and, therefore, would -- are encouraged of what we're seeing going forward.  

JOHN FAUCHER: One sort of follow-up on that.  

CCE has talked about potentially seeing a pretty big impact from the World Cup in the second quarter in the Northwest European business. Can you talk a little bit about what you guys are expecting in your European business from the World Cup? Thanks.  

GARY FAYARD: I guess I would say two things. If you actually look at the segment data, and this is going to be the last quarter I'm going to talk about segments, I hope, but if you look at segment data on Europe you'll actually see we've actually are investing quite a bit in marketing behind the brands within Europe, and that really deals with the World Cup.  

And so if you put the World Cup together, so what, July 10th, finals in Berlin, so in the month of June leading up, a lot of excitement globally, but particularly in Europe, and you consider the Easter shift, as well, both of those are very positive factors as we look to the second quarter in Europe.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: However, just one caution, May, June last year in Europe was when summer arrived. It wasn't there July August, so on a year basis you can be neutral about the weather, but we are cycling that, and the World Cup will help us do that because the main effect of the World Cup will really be in June, with the preliminary rounds when all of the countries are really involved.  

As you get to the final, it will be more Germany and countries that happen to be in the final, or continents that happen to be in the final.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Good morning, everyone.  

Neville, since taking over you've spoken a great deal about better risk taking at The Coca-Cola Company. Can you, first of all, maybe give us a sense of progress on where you are in terms of creating the risk taking culture that you seek?  

And second of all, beyond The Coca-Cola Company and the bottler level, bottlers often view concentrate price increases as discouragement to risk taking so how do you balance that as you go forward to encourage them to take on more risks rather than less?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me deal with the second part first. Concentrate price increases, I mean we're not going to run the business on a declining margin, not reflecting inflationary pressures, and that's the way that we've always run the business, and that's the way that we'll continue to run the business.  

The real issue is bottler profitability at a level whereby those investments are going to yield a positive return for their investors. And the evidence that continues to come through is of improved return of invested capital for our bottlers around the world.  

So I've just come out of about three weeks ago I was down in Sydney with our top six bottlers. We had what was seen as the best meeting that we've ever had between the top six bottlers of The Coca-Cola Company, not just in terms of atmosphere and attitude, but in terms of content, all the things that we are pulling together to do.  

And, you know, they said that they've never seen so much innovation, and what we were talking about was how they can better exploit that innovation for growth of the system as a whole.  

So concentrate pricing is not impacting our ability to perform in any way, and I think you can see that in terms of the results in Mexico, although I don't expect that level of percentage growth, because we've had a very hot winter down there to go through the full-year. But I think that's just a proof point.  

If you go back to innovation overall, some of the, I can't talk prospectively, because some of those are confidential, but if you want me to go through some of the innovations, I mean, we came out, for example, we launched two diet brands last year at the same time. We launched effectively Zero and Diet Coke with Splenda.  

That was something which people believed that bottlers couldn't handle that much innovation. They were able to handle it. We now have in supermarkets a one share for Zero, we've got a .4 share for Splenda.  

But part of breaking the mold there was Diet Coke with Splenda. Everyone was looking for another name because we couldn't carry, our lawyers said, another trademark together with the Coke trademark.  

Well, we did. Coke Blak. I mean, Coke Blak is a real breakout in terms of Coca-Cola.  

We've had flavored Coca-Cola, but one that is positioned at a premium price, I mean it's a very specific segment, with the enhanced caffeine, is something that would have been an [inaudible] to the system certainly ten years ago and I think even more recently. So those are very real changes that you've seen take place. And also what we've done with the like of Tab Energy.  

Now, there's more along the way. In some markets you will see that we will be coming out with enhanced versions of diets. That, I can talk about prospectively. I mentioned that in the past.  

I'll just go back to those two examples of breaking the mold to exemplify that we're willing to do it, and you will see more of it in the future. The reason that you don't see that much right now is because some of these developments do take time, and some of them require regulatory approvals.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Lauren Torres with HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning.  

I was hoping could you talk a little bit more about the improvement in Northwest Europe. Are you attributing some of this or all of this to just improvements in the broader market or more so to initiatives that you've put in place to improve this division?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: More to initiatives that we've put in place than the broader market because the U.K., in fact, continues to be weak. Within those Northwest European numbers is very strong results in France and Belgium, more modest in Netherlands, but weaker in the U.K.  

Just taking the U.K., we actually gained share whilst the volume in the U.K. was on the negative side. We'd rather have had it positive than flat share. But anyway, we did gain share and that's because of our efforts with diets and lights.  

We've talked before about the rollout of the Zed flavor base with Fanta, et cetera, or Z, in U.S. terminology, and, of course, you know that we are going to launch Coke Zero in the U.K. to help turn that around. But in addition to that, we've got the revenue growth management strategy rolling out, something we've talked about before.  

That has done two things. It's helped our share overall, but it's also increased our margins, and the bottler margins, and also what we've done with regard to non-carbs.  

And, in fact, part of the improvement, the 100 basis point improvement in non-carbs as a percentage of carbs comes out of Northwest Europe, Minute Maid in particular in the U.K. with that launch which is one that I would point to in particular. So it is broad-based. It is execution, it is share gain, and it is a degree of innovation.  

LAUREN TORRES: But with respect to the broader market that you haven't seen much improvement over in the last several quarters or so?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: That varies. France is -- France actually has improved in the broader market and we've improved ahead of that. The U.K. is the opposite of that.  

So it is not something that is the same in the four major markets, because it's actually Belgium, there's been growth, Holland, there hasn't, so you've got two countries where the overall market has not grown and two countries where they have grown. But we have grown share.  

But we don't see Great Britain as improving to a marked degree as we go through the year. We still think Northwest Europe will be able to balance that overall.  

Again, it's the portfolio effect, even within a relatively narrow frame, but the U.K. economy is going through some difficulty, and obviously the overall portfolio is reflecting that. You see it in other categories as well.  

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Cheryl Gedvila with Prudential Equity Group.  

CHERYL GEDVILA, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Good morning.  

I was wondering if you could just detail what the FX impact was on your EU segments?  

And also had one question regarding the Philippines. You cite that in that segment that there was a little bit of a buy-in ahead of price increase that impacted the volumes there, and do you have just kind of an estimate of what that impact might have been?  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, first on currency, within the EU, it was a negative, I'd say mid to high single digits.  

CHERYL GEDVILA: Okay.  

GARY FAYARD: So much more -- much worse than overall total company.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: On the Philippines, we don't have a detailed number with regard to the effect of that, but we did flag it because the overall trends prior were weaker than that 4%. Therefore, we expect to see the effect of that in the second quarter.  

I would highlight, though, that the Philippines is not a major area of profitability with regard to the Company overall. So whilst volumetrically it's important, it's a pretty low margin market for us and, therefore, doesn't have a major effect on profitability overall.  

And then maybe to beg the question with regard to what are we doing about it, I mean, it is of significant concern to San Miguel as well and we are right in the middle of detailed discussions about what we're going to do about turning that around.  

Not all of you will know that I was in the Philippines from '81 to '85. I know that market very well. The good news that we have is that the brand scores are still high. We still have amongst the highest in the world. So we have not lost brand relevance in the marketplace.  

What we have lost is availability and effectiveness in the marketplace. And we're obviously discussing that with the Philippine bottler. I do not anticipate that you're going to see any major turnaround in the Philippines this year.  

That's different than my view of India, but in the Philippines I think you're going to see mid to high single-digit declines in volume as we go through the rest of the year because these distribution issues will take capital and human resources to turn around and even when we get the commitment of the bottler to do that, that will take time.  

OPERATOR: Today's final question will come from the line of Matthew Riley with Morningstar.  

MATTHEW RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning.  

I actually wanted to talk a little bit more about India. I wanted to get some background as to why you do feel that this will be kind of a turnaround year and also wanted to get some idea of the overall magnitude of the price increase that led to the 10% volume decline.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, the 10% volume decline was not just price increase, and that partly leads into why I believe that India itself is going to grow for the year. Most of the decline was actually within the company bottling operations, which is about 71%, roughly, of the overall Indian business, and it really involves what we're doing to put those bottling operations on the right foot.  

And, in fact, you're now going to be able to track that as you look at the bottling breakout. You'll see some of the work that we're doing with regard to the bottling breakout.  

And we have reduced credit terms. We have improved our collection of receivables, and we have also decreased the bottle float that we have out there on credit in terms of putting more control into the business. And that was one of the impacts in terms of profitability in the past.  

We're trying to run a tight ship where a tight ship was not run before. When you do that and you cut back, particularly as we start going into the peak season bottler, sorry, the inventories then drop because you're tightening up with the wholesalers and the distributors in the trade. So that's why we think it is episodic and not a reflection of what's going to happen for the rest of the year.  

At the same time, the whole skills, the overall level of skill has been increased within the bottler. There's been a massive training effort, revenue growth management as part of that, and then on top of that, we launched a trust campaign, as you know, the India situation is multifaceted.  

One of the issues where the pesticide allegations, which are unfounded, but we have launched a trust campaign and all the data that we've looked at on that has reflected an increase in purchase intent, a reduction in overall safety concerns, and also an increase in weekly and monthly users, and that, of course, reflects then an inventory reduction in the trade that I talked about, because I think consumer off-take is actually ahead of what we have with regard to the industry overall. So that's why we think that India actually is stabilizing and that you'll see that improving in the second quarter and going forward.  

That being the final question, I'd like to thank each of you for joining us this morning. With the results in this quarter and the plans that we have in place, and I think you've heard this during the Q&A, that I'm confident the business is on a solid base heading into 2006.  

It is going to be all about execution. That's going to be critical for our path going forward, but we are getting traction.  

I am pleased with our results to date, and I look forward to speaking to you again in the second quarter and the call in July to share our further progress. Thank you very much, everyone.  

OPERATOR: This concludes The Coca-Cola Company's first quarter 2006 earnings results conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060503e24j000e1
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling  Company  S.A. Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,643 words
   PD
15 February 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Coca-Cola HBC conference call on the full-year 2005 financial results. We have with us Mr. Doros Constantinou, Managing Director, and Mr. Nik Jhangiani, Chief Financial Officer, and Melina Androutsopoulou, Investor Relations Director. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).  

I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday the 15th of February, the year 2006. We now pass the floor to one of your speakers today, Ms. Melina Androutsopoulou. Please go ahead.  

   TD
MELINA ANDROUTSOPOULOU, DIRECTOR OF IR, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Thank you operator. Good afternoon to Europe and good morning to the U.S. Thank you for joining our 2005 full year results call. I'm pleased to be joined by Doros Constantinou, our Managing Director, and Nik Jhangiani, our Chief Financial Officer.  

Before we get started, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements, including long-term volume and earnings projections and should be considered in conjunction with a cautionary statement contained in the earnings release and the Company's most recent filings. In addition, I would like to point out that our US GAAP financials are available on our website at Coca-Cola HBC.com. I will now turn the call over to Doros.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU, MANAGING DIRECTOR, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Thank you Melina and welcome everyone. As you will have seen in our press release this morning, we achieved another year of very strong performance, the fifth consecutive year since Coca-Cola HBC was born. During this call, Nik and I will analyze the key drivers of this performance and comment on our plans for 2006. I'll just spend a couple of minutes running through the key drivers of our performance before turning to each of our operating segments.  

In 2005, we achieved strong volume in all product categories. It is important to note that core CSD volume grew by mid single digits, while water and other non-CSDs delivered strong double-digit volume growth during both periods under review. I will continue to focus on marketing activities and increased availability of light and diet CSDs [resulting] in a low double-digit volume increase in this category.  

In addition, we continue to jointly invest with the Coca-Cola Company to expand our range of non-carbonated beverages through targeted local branded brand acquisitions and new product innovation. Non-carbonated beverages now account for 28% of our total volume compared to 10% in 2001, and we expect their contribution to grow further to approximately 35% in 2006. The diversification of our portfolio has been a very successful strategy for us and we intend to continue looking for opportunities in the future.  

The secondary of key focus and 2005 which will continue to be a key priority for us in 2006 is our marketplace execution. We cannot stress enough how important we perceive of the (indiscernible) availability of our products [through full] replacements, enhancing sales force capabilities, quality and outlet execution and innovative marketing activities at the point of sale.  

We have continued to improve on all of these areas and we feel that this is a key strength of Coca-Cola HBC that will allow us to support grow portfolio range and improve our competitive position. A number of our markets provided best practices and 2005, which translated into market share gains and profitability improvement.  

Lastly, I would like to briefly touch upon some supply chain initiatives which will remain a key area of focus and have helped us mitigate the high higher raw material costs in 2005. Changes in the marketplace and the elimination of trade barriers among countries provided us opportunities to rethink about our infrastructure, and most effectively deliver our products to our customers.  

For example, in 2005 Poland was a major supplier of our septic products for all the Central European countries. We continuously look to drive production cost efficiencies through capitalizing on the world's leading technological advances. In 2005, we introduced the new ultra glass bottle in Romania and Greece with other countries to follow in 2006. The new design is 50% stronger, 30% lighter and 30% cheaper compared to the conventional bottle.  

We continue to work on our [PT] weight optimization with the purpose of reducing packages, packaging and waste costs. In addition, we pioneered the use of recycled PT in some of our key markets like Austria, Hungary, Switzerland, Czech and [Slovo] Republics.  

Let me now discuss some of the factors that influenced our segment performance during the quarter. We were particularly pleased to see our developing markets back on track during 2005, with full-year volume up 14% and EBIT profit up 29%. Increased marketing investment and promotional activity, new product launches, and maintaining broadly flat pricing all contributed to very strong organic volume growth.  

In addition, continued investment in salespeople and commercial capabilities, accelerated cooler rollout in the reinvestment of our favorable [kerosene pack] back into the business locally drove our improved profitability and is building [its own] platform for the future. [One] performance here includes Hungary, which gained market share in CSDs and achieved market leadership in tea and juices. In Poland where we gained market share across most categories and became the market leader in tea and water.  

Emerging markets continue to perform well in Russia, Romania, Ukraine and Bulgaria, all reporting double-digit volume growth during 2005. Our biggest market in this segment Russia, grew volume by double-digits across all product categories while we continue to gained market share including water, where today we're number one.  

Multon, the juice company we acquired jointly with the Coca-Cola Company in April 2005, had a very good year driven by several initiatives, not just increasing profitability in the immediate consumption channel, continuing to build brand equity and capturing synergies.  

Turning to the established market segment in Greece, Switzerland, and Austria, light CSDs continued to perform very well while we continue to experience some softness in CSD volumes in 2005. In these three countries, non-CSDs account for 31% of total volume. With ongoing challenge presented by a changing retail landscape and consumer tastes continue to evolve, we'll remain committed to pursuing initiatives that will align our business to changing realities in the marketplace.  

Initiatives such as further expansion of our non-CSD portfolio and light products as well as quality and outlet execution. Our route to market product in Italy, which in January of 2006 we rolled out in the rest of our territory, is contributing to core CSD growth as well as volume gains across our known CSD products including Nestea and POWERaDE.  

This initiative is leading to improve product and package mix trends through having greater influence on our (indiscernible) execution and reducing our reliance on CSDs. We expect to develop a similar strategy in other markets in 2006. And in 2006 we'll also step up our investment sales force in this segment to prepare for further route to market initiatives.  

Before I hand over to Nick, I would also like to touch upon our recently announced acquisitions and our 2006 product innovation pipeline. The tender offer of (indiscernible) bottle Lanitis is well as track. To date, approximately 70% of the outstanding share capital of Lanitis has been tendered, while we expect a tender offer to run until March 10th. The leading market shares in all product categories Lanitis offers and the expertise of the Company has in milk, coupled with the natural (indiscernible) are all reasons that make this business attractive to us.  

As you are also aware, we announced the acquisition of Fresh & Co., one of the leading juice companies in Serbia. We are pleased to have reached an agreement as Fresh & Co. complements well our current portfolio of brands in this market. Both these acquisitions are expected to contribute approximately 1.5% to volume growth, approximately 1% to EBIT growth and 0.01 cents to EPS in 2006.  

Yesterday morning, we also announced a very exciting addition to our portfolio of water brands through the acquisition of Traficante, a mineral water Company in Italy. As most of you would know, we have been looking to acquire a water Company in Italy for the past couple of years. This deal provides a foothold for us in the Italian water market. At the same time, it comes at a time we have expanded our [quartering] availability and sales force and have had early success of our route market initiatives.  

Turning to product innovation, we have a number of plans for 2006. The range of our flavored mineral waters and the Fonte Viva wellness brand in Switzerland, which was launched in late 2005, has benefited from an effective knowledge transfer from our [Roman Quell Emotion] brand in Austria. This contributes to the success of an [emotional] range of products under the [Big River Rock] umbrella in Ireland, which was launched in January of this year.  

[Happy], one of our juice brands, will extend its reach with more flavors. We'll also work towards extending the reach of our CSD light products as well as our Nestea product line under the Nestea Green Tea, Nestea Light, and Nestea for kids. I will now hand over to Nik, who will take you through the detail of our results for the full-year together with our financial package on 2006. Nik?  

NIK JHANGIANI, CFO, COCA-COLA HELLENIC BOTTLING COMPANY SA: Good afternoon and good morning to all. I'm very pleased to report our overall performance for 2005 including the acquisitions that we completed during 2005 of Multon, Bankya, and Vlasinka. And overall we had 12% volume growth, 15% EBIT growth and EPS of EUR1.34, a 26% increase over 2005, above market expectations as well as our previous guidance on each of the measures, driven by our store operating performance.  

Our gross margins improved by 50 basis points on both our total and underlying business, and our EBIT margins were up 25 basis points on the total business and slightly up on the underlying business. These results despite significant pressures on the raw materials front and in spite of strong investments in areas of sales, marketing, and IT system initiatives in line with our plans.  

Importantly, our focus on improving returns on invested capital have delivered really still results for Coca-Cola HBC and we're truly creating value for our shareholders the first time since inception. All through the consistent execution of our strategic initiatives that is broadening our portfolio of beverages, building our brand to ensure that they are capable of sustaining the price premiums in the local market, relentless focus on marketplace execution and diligent attention to management of our operating costs and driving efficiencies.  

Now I would like to highlight just a few details on the 2005 results focusing on the true organic performance. That is excluding the impact of the restructuring charges in 2005 primarily related to the single [island] infrastructure product project in Ireland. And excluding the impact of the recent acquisitions of Bankya, Multon, and Vlasinka amortization of intangibles in the pre-acquisition tax losses. So really looking at the true organic performance of the business.  

Volume growth 9% as Doros mentioned. Strong middle -- mid single digit growth in core CSDs for the full-year with a focus on lights and diets which grew over 10%. In addition, [NCBs] accounted for about 28% of our volume, double-digit growth across all the categories. Underlying net sales revenue for the group up 10% or about 0.6% for unit case, ahead of our volume growth of 9%.  

On a currency neutral basis, our net sales revenue decreased by about 1.5%. Here, the emerging market is continuing to perform well, with per unit case growth of 3% on a currency neutral basis resulting from both positive pricing and mix. Established markets were up about 0.5% with Italy and Ireland being positive contributors, but offset by some declines in Greece primarily as a result of mix.  

In the developing markets, in line with our plans as Doros mentioned earlier, we maintain flat pricing and continue to drive value add and brand equity building promotions as well as the tactical use of value CSDs. The [hero] net that sales revenue per unit case was down about 4% on a currency neutral basis.  

Underlying cost of goods sold up 9% but on a per case basis essentially flat as reported, and on a currency neutral basis, down a couple of points. Our resulting gross margin is up about 50 basis points as reported and essentially flat on a currency neutral basis, again in line with our plans. I believe this has been a significant achievement given the over EUR50 million of additional raw materials costs in 2005 versus 2004 being effectively managed through our strategic and tactical hedging and procurement program, and of course the continued benefits of our improved cost production supply chain efficiencies.  

If you look below the gross profit down to the EBIT line, underlying [pure] operating expenses for the full-year up about $0.2 to $0.93 per case. Again, continued focus on growing our sales and marketing expenses which are up about $0.02 per case, as well as increases in our warehousing and distribution costs up about $0.01 a case as a result of increased outlet coverage through our route to market initiatives, and to some extent from higher transportation costs as a result of higher oil prices.  

I would reiterate again as I did in November that as we continue to roll out our route to market strategies across other markets, this will have an increase on our operating expenses but will also drive an improvement in our net sales revenue realization as a result of reduced wholesaler discounts. So really some reclassification here as well as over time growth to the bottom line.  

Finally on admin cost, down about $0.01 a case for the full-year despite continued investment in our IP enterprise model. The per case amounts here are also helped by the strong volume momentum. Also for clarification, included in our underlying figures is a charge of approximately EUR4 million related to the expensing of stock options.  

All in all, a very strong underlying EBIT performance, [flat to] 11% for the full-year and our EBIT margins slightly up at 10.3%, which again we believe is very solid in a year where margin expansion has been constrained by overall commodity cost inflation and limited pricing flexibility in certain markets. Additionally, we continue to invest behind our route to market initiatives including our sales force development and our enterprise IT model.  

Looking at finance cost, the interest expense of the full-year 2005 was about EUR10 million lower than 2004. This is because we did a strategic optimal capital structure review that we initiated during 2004 with focus on really maximizing shareowner value, while incorporating allowances for flexibility in considering all facets of the capital structure. Our total reported finance cost down to EUR55 million versus EUR65 million last year.  

If you look at the various components, net interest expense down about EUR8 million with roughly half of that benefit being as a result of a change in the overall net debt structure as I just discussed, and the other half being a onetime charge in 2004 related to the early redemption of some of the 2006 bonds as a part of the refinancing exercise that we took on in the summer of 2004.  

Looking at taxes, the effective tax rate for the full-year at 26%, slightly above our expectation of approximately 25.5% that I communicated to you in November. The comparably calculated rate for 2004 was 28.3% and this reduction was driven by the impact of statutory rate reductions on the current earnings in a number of our territories, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria to name a few, as well as several tax planning initiatives which we implemented during 2005.  

Some of these initiatives have a cash tax benefit over least five years, but because of the accounting rules under IFRS, we are required to account for the entire benefit in the period in which the benefit arises, so in 2005. All this leading to an underlying net profit increase of 20% on an underlying basis for the full-year and EPS of EUR1.28, a very solid performance even on our underlying numbers. I would remind you again all in as we guided, our numbers for EPS for the full year were EUR1.34 actually above consensus and above our guidance as well.  

On the acquisitions, very pleased with the integration of Multon, Bankya Vlasinka. And these businesses are well on track of ensuring that we fully capture revenue and cost synergies and appropriately strengthen these businesses in these local markets. Overall, these businesses contributed about 36 million unit cases for the full-year, which includes half of Multon volumes and EPS of about $0.065. Remember again, we are only reporting half of actual volumes for Multon.  

Let's turn over and look at our update on outlook for 2006 which we last talked about at the end of November. We expect our volumes for the year to grow by approximately 8%, with the new acquisitions -- to be completed acquisitions in Serbia and Cyprus representing about 1.5% of the total of once closed.  

The strong organic performance is a result of continued low single digit performance of core CSDs, moderating growth in value brands and continued low double-digit growth in the non-CSD portfolio. We will continue to focus on revenue growth management through our brand pack pricing strategies appropriate for the right channel and occasion. And our overall plans call for pricing in line with inflation.  

From a mix perspective, overall neutral to slightly positive. And as I highlighted in November, three general themes continuing. On packages, continued growth in our single serve packages (indiscernible) [PET] glass and can, so positive contribution here to the net sales revenue. On category, water growing strongly, which obviously has a lower net sales revenue per case but [somewhat] balanced by the higher net sales revenue from other NCDs, particularly juice. [Therefore] less focus on value CSDs, so again, positive contribution on the product mix side.  

And lastly, country mix, obviously the emerging markets continuing to grow strongly, representing a more significant proportion of our volumes which does have some negative impact on our net sales revenue per case. All in all, I would say we're probably looking at about 1.5% price mix realization, which we believe is healthy and sustainable.  

On the cost of goods sold front, looking at some of the main commodities in more detail, on PET, generally positive news as we believe that the cost will be lower versus 2005 within industry consensus heavily influenced by the oversupply in Asia. At this stage, we have finalized on about 85% of our 2006 requirements, of course again through a variety of different contractual agreements which worked well for us in 2005. The remainder will be sourced through the spot purchase market in the second half of the year, where we do expect some further softening of pricing. [So here] about 2% improvement versus 2005.  

On sweeteners, a bit more challenging as the world market prices in (indiscernible) [and lights] where we saw it's roughly half of our required volume, continued to escalate due to short crops in major producing countries as well as speculative activities on the futures market. Currently, we have about 40% of our world market requirement still open. On the flipside, through the EU markets where we sourced the other half of our requirements, we have taken full advantage of some of the volatility preceding deregulation and those costs will be lower versus 2005. So on sweeteners then, probably about a 2% increase versus 2005.  

Finally, on aluminum, the markets have been trading at an 18 year high, near $2700 per ton, due mainly to speculation on future aluminum prices. While the fundamentals are strong, we do not believe they justify current prices. Now, as recently as Monday, there have been some moves that could signal a near-term break but this needs to be watched closely. As of now, we have locked in for the first half requirements of 2006. And depending on market developments, we could be looking at an increase of about 5 to 6% over last year. Again, to put it back into perspective, aluminum accounts for about 4 to 5% of our cost of sales.  

Summarizing, we will probably expect an impact of approximately EUR10 million on our cost base on commodities in 2006 versus 2005. Despite these challenges, we continue to be confident in achieving EBIT growth of 11 to 13%, which as Doros mentioned includes about 1% contribution from the acquisitions that we should complete in Serbia and Cyprus.  

I believe it is important to highlight the first quarter of EBIT -- first quarter EBIT will be more negatively impacted by such commodity price increases as well as by our operating expense investments behind our sales force, both in terms of feet on the street and enhanced commercial capabilities when compared with the comparable period for 2005. However, solid growth will build through the rest of the year to deliver on our full-year targets.  

Below the EBIT line on finance cost, we expect an increase of about EUR10 million over 2005 due primarily to short-term interest rates rising to 2.75%. Our business plans assume a gradual rise in these short-term rates through 2006 and a continuation of a steeper yield curve for most of the year. Given that, we have swapped our fixed-rates for floating-rates. These assumptions lead to an increase in our net interest expense.  

On taxes, we continue to assume an effective tax rate of 26% for 2006. As I highlighted earlier, our effective tax rate for 2005 was also 26% but benefited from several tax planning initiatives for which the benefit was recognized fully in 2005. So really some improvement in 2006. This will result in an EPS in the range of EUR1.50 to EUR1.53. On CapEx, we will continue our focus on investments in coolers to drive availability of chilled products. Our total spend will be in the range of about EUR460 to EUR480 million including the to-be-completed acquisition in Serbia and Cyprus.  

I think the strength of our country portfolio ,continued focus on driving operating efficiencies and cost reductions through customer-centric supply chain initiatives, as well as several other strategic focus areas such as route to market and enhancing our commercial capabilities, we remain confident in achieving results in line with our long-term growth model I just outlined.  

Furthermore, this guidance reflects our commitment to driving shareowner value with a further improvement of 75 basis points in our returns on invested capital, driving strong economic profits. Our relationship with the Coca-Cola Company remains strong and we're both committed to improving the health of our business with continued focus on expansion of our beverage portfolio through innovation and acquisition.  

With that, Doros and I would be glad to take any questions you might have. Operator?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Martin Yule, Morgan Stanley.  

MARTIN YULE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Well done on a good year. Just -- could you give us a little more clarity on the sort of sustainability of your current level of interest rates in your sort of budgeting process? Because it just seems to me you are paying very low rates of interest given increased debt this year and acquisitions in emerging markets. And secondly, on your tax rate, can you just give us some guidance as to how long you expect to sustain the sort of current tax rate guidance? Is that a finite -- it's obviously a finite amount of tax losses.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Thanks on your positive note on our results for 2005. I guess on the finance cost, in -- as I explained in 2005, we probably for the most part had about a 2% rate that we were working with, based on the fact that all of our debt is denominated in euros and we have a floating-rate debt. So we were able to take advantage of that. For 2006, as I indicated, we have guided up by about EUR10 million based on what we see as [ECB] rate hikes going up to 2.75% during the course of 2006.  

So part of the savings that we had in 2005, again as I highlighted, was as a result of changing the mix of our short-term and long-term debt. We probably have about 20% of our debt portfolio now in the short-term category. And we also had some one off costs in 2004 as a result of the early redemption of our 2006 bonds and some refinancing that we did. So if you really look at it in 2005, excluding the one off, you probably had about EUR5 million reduction in your total cost. And for 2006, as I said, we are guiding up towards a 10 million higher impact primarily as a result of the increase in rates that the ECB has talked about.  

On tax rates, 26% is what we had in 2006 -- 2005. We had actually hoped to be at about 25.5%, but we came in at 26%, so actually slightly higher than what we had guided towards. And we believe -- remember, I think you talked about the NOLs, this is excluding NOLs. So this is backing those out. But if you actually have those in there, effective tax rate is closer to 20%. So this is on a like for like basis -- the 26% versus 28% in 2004, and we believe the 26% at least for the interim period for the next two to three years is a sustainable rate.  

MARTIN YULE: So just coming back to the debt then, trying to understand is the -- is there a sort of change in philosophy that you'll have something like EUR500 million in short-term debt on an ongoing basis?  

NIK JHANGIANI: We would probably maintain our short-term debt in the 20 to 30% range. I wouldn't give you an exact number that says that's what we would maintain it, but that would be the range that we would be comfortable with.  

MARTIN YULE: Right okay. And the reductions in tax rates that you mentioned in a number of countries is the primary driver of the move from 28 to 26 then?  

NIK JHANGIANI: And some tax planning initiatives that we took as well for which we had to account for in 2005.  

MARTIN YULE: Right. Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Chris Pitcher, UBS.  

CHRIS PITCHER, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Just two questions please. With regard to the strategic rationale of the acquisition in Italy, correct me if I'm right, your assets are in the northern part of Italy and the southern part is still owned by smaller family bottlers. Is there, therefore, major distribution benefits to be taken. Or is that a way of sort of moving distribution into the south? I was wondering if there's anything to take from the geography of the acquisition.  

And secondly, with regard to the start of the year, obviously you talked about pricing in line with inflation, I wondered if you can give us a little bit of feel for how early pricing discussions have gone, how that is being taken in some of the markets, particularly in Eastern Europe where pricing was the issue last year. And if you could give us a quick update on how volumes -- albeit in a very small month, January started off in the likes of Russia and Nigeria. Thanks.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Chris, this is Doros. I will address your first question about Traficante in Italy and Nik will get you some more details on your second question regarding the pricing, etc. Traficante has an important foothold in the Italian water market. And we all know that Italy has the highest per capita in Europe. And it is expected to continue growing in the future. So it's a very important acquisition that we made from a strategic point of view. What is more important is that they have high-quality water and also significant water reserves which exceed well their current volume sales.  

I will go now to specific issues that you raised about (indiscernible) models. The two plants are located in the southern bottlers. The two plants are located in the south of Italy, yes, in the territory that is run by another bottler, not Coca-Cola Hellenic. But the companies have their own distribution network currently and the intention is to continue using that and improve on it. If there are any opportunities to cooperate with the southern bottlers for the water business that will be the case, but it doesn't change anything in our relationship with the southern bottlers, which is very good.  

CHRIS PITCHER: And just to be clear, Traficante has its own distribution infrastructure within the south, but you will -- will you invest further in that? You said you might cooperate in terms of growing volumes you might have to use the other bottlers' distribution. I am trying to get a feel for --  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: We'll see how we can optimize that distribution infrastructure that is already in place. That may include cooperation with the southern bottlers and something that we don't exclude from that optimization process. However, there is already a good infrastructure there regarding the distribution. And we need to do some corrective things there and also improve on the sales side and roll out of those brands in the rest of Italy, building on our presence there and our access to the outlets which Traficante couldn't have.  

CHRIS PITCHER: Okay.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Chris, Nik. On your question in terms of pricing, we're pretty confident that we should be able to take our pricing up in the developing markets in line with inflation without negatively impacting our volumes. And I think we factor that into volume growth for 2006 with the plan that we will clearly be taking pricing in there.  

We did start off actually with some selective price increases in some markets in late Q4. And we've got some more coming through towards the end of Q1, early Q2. So at this point, we feel very confident we'll be able to do that without adversely impacting our volumes.  

In terms of your question in terms of January, our numbers year-to-date, if you exclude Multon it's about 7% and including Multon it's about 12%. So we feel good about the way the year has started out.  

CHRIS PITCHER: Thank you. Because we heard from the [brewers] that January (indiscernible) had been very cold. You had seen volumes decline in significant -- double teens. You're not seeing that? Because obviously Russia has been a continual driver of growth.  

NIK JHANGIANI: I think that there were impacts in Russia for sure because as you said, there was a cold start to the year. But again, that's where the beauty of our portfolio kicks in. It's not just dependence on one particular market. And it's early in the year and I think we got some great plans in Russia for the core business and for Multon and we don't have any concerns at this point at all.  

CHRIS PITCHER: Excellent. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Lauren Torres, HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: My question -- I hope you can talk a little bit more about your initiatives in your established markets, what you're doing to improve upon volume growth here and just timing too. How should we think about these initiatives? Will it be impactful in '06 or this is something that's more longer-term in nature?  

NIK JHANGIANI: Nik. I think if you look at the overall established markets and you probably got a fair amount of information on Italy from your last visit there and some of the stuff we talked about. But our route to market initiatives, the recent acquisition in the water arena to really give us more credibility as a total beverage Company are all going to yield very positive results and I think will have a good year in 2006. We'll continue to see that kick in 2007 and beyond.  

If you look at a couple of other markets, Austria and Switzerland in particular, those are markets in which we are also trying to address some of those issues. And just to give you an example about Switzerland for instance, we talked a little bit last year about what we were trying to do, again from a route to market perspective, in terms of working with the wholesalers and evaluating our relationships with them because they're not all bad. We've got some great relationships with wholesalers.  

But we also needed to ensure that we're really increasing our sales core frequency, more coverage at the outlets, and by the end of Q1 '06, we'll have 110 incremental salespeople in Switzerland on the street. So you're probably not going to see huge impact and maybe the first half of the year, but I think in the second half of the year things should start picking up there.  

We're very focused on, again, cold drink equipment placement. We're going to be placing in excess of about 7,500 coolers into Switzerland. Better leverage in integrating the (indiscernible) business. That gives you a little bit of a feel of some of the things we're trying to do to address some of these issues. And I would say Austria, we're looking at similar types of opportunities, it might be a little later in the year.  

Ireland continues to perform well. The single Ireland facility we talked about is an important initiative there, and I think some of those benefits will really start accruing for us in 2007 beyond. And Greece, you know we talked about a recent restructuring there again in order to be competitive in that marketplace, so I think we're doing the right things. I can't really tell you you're going to see all those results come through in 2006, but again, we build our business for the long-term. Our strategies are very clear in terms of what we want to do.  

LAUREN TORRES: And if you look at 8% volume growth goal for '06, I am not sure if you want to give this to us, but how you're thinking about it amongst the three markets.  

NIK JHANGIANI: Well, if you look -- if you exclude from that the to-be-completed acquisitions, you're probably looking about 6.5% growth. And I would say low single digits in the established markets -- maybe 1 to 2. We're not looking for stellar growth there right now. And then mid to higher in the developing and then high single digits in the emerging.  

LAUREN TORRES: And just one more question. You touched upon restructuring in Greece. How has that gone on? I know there have been some strikes, but I assume no disruption in business, but if you could us give us an update on that.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: This is Doros. There are -- we announced that on 19 January and we invited the unions for negotiations regarding the packages for voluntary [redundancies]. Already people in the Athens plant and another (indiscernible) people in the three regional [depots]. It appears that the three regional depots are very close to signing. We have discussed the packages and they have accepted that. It's just that we haven't signed yet and we expect that to happen very soon. I would say maybe before the end of the week.  

The Athens plan -- we had the last meeting today. They're going back to their people to present them with the packages we talked about. And I believe we should have a positive outcome in Athens as well; not a soon as the rest of the three depots, but hopefully before the end of the month we should have resolved the whole issue.  

LAUREN TORRES: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ian Shackleton, Lehman Brothers.  

IAN SHACKLETON, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Congratulations very much on meeting the return on capital target. It feels like it's been quite a long journey, but I'm very pleased to see that you said in the statement that it's not your final destination. Obviously we would love to know where the final destination might be, but I wonder whether you could give us some idea of what you see the potential of next years for that return on capital number to move up to.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, thank you very much for your comments, Ian. I can answer your question fairly quickly. It's in our three year numbers. We have given our estimates of what is our expected [rate] growth parameters. So in the medium term, the three-year, that is what our target is. And then we'll see how the business evolves with acquisitions and the possible expansion of this business. And we'll renew that at that stage.  

IAN SHACKLETON: The one thing (indiscernible) changing a little bit at the moment is that clearly you are being more aggressive on the cost line with what you are doing in Ireland and what you've just announced in Greece. And I guess there is the thought that could have quite a material impact both from the margin and on return on capital in the next few years, but is that already built in the existing three year guidance you mentioned?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, it is built into our numbers. Yes.  

OPERATOR: Sonya Ghobrial, Goldman Sachs.  

SONYA GHOBRIAL, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had a couple of quick questions left. First thing was just can you give any detail in terms of the currency hit that you saw EBIT for the Company? And then second one was just if you could give any color on the volume growth in Nigeria in Q4, and obviously that was just after the price increase you took in September. Thanks.  

NIK JHANGIANI: It's Nik. On the currency piece, as we talked about throughout 2005, we did have some favorable currency benefits which we continue to reinvest back in the business to grow topline and bottom-line. I think the impact if you look and Q4 was probably in the range of about EUR5 to EUR6 million of a positive impact.  

SONYA GHOBRIAL: Okay.  

NIK JHANGIANI: I'll pass onto Doros to talk about Nigeria.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes. In Nigeria we have seen some softness in the volume following the price increase that we effected beginning of September. But you know, considering the macroeconomic environment in Nigeria, it was expected. It was expected that we would have some short-term impact on the volume.  

SONYA GHOBRIAL: Can you quantify that?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Excuse me?  

SONYA GHOBRIAL: Can you quantify what you saw in volume in Q4?  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Yes, in Q4 the volume decreased 15%.  

SONYA GHOBRIAL: Okay thanks.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: But however, on a full year basis, Nigeria grew by 10%. So it was something that we expected. Maybe not up to 15%, but it was [waiting] to our expectations that we would have an impact.  

OPERATOR: Costas Theodorou, National Securities.  

COSTAS THEODOROU, ANALYST, NATIONAL SECURITIES: Thank you. Just a follow-up on the Italian acquisition you plan to make, do we have any input on the EBIT for 2006? In other words, the growth you provide for 2006, does it include the impact from the second half of the Italian acquisition in water? That is my first question.  

The second is with respect to the CapEx, just to clarify, you include all acquisitions under CapEx guidance excluding the [items] (indiscernible) initiatives in the Italian acquisition. Is that correct? And a couple of other questions. Just on the operating expenses per unit case, is it fair to assume for 2006 a similar rate of growth on a per unit case is like the one in 2005 and 2004?  

NIK JHANGIANI: This is Nik. I'll try and take each one of those and hopefully I will answer all three of them. On Italy, we have not included in our guidance any indications of what the Traficante business will contribute. It kind of just was announced yesterday and we still are not exactly sure about the timing of the close, because there will be some regulatory approvals that we will need which might be a little more onerous for the Italian market. So we'll update you probably at -- with the Q1 results in terms of the contribution from Traficante.  

COSTAS THEODOROU: So it is nothing -- so nothing on volumes as well?  

NIK JHANGIANI: On Italy, Traficante nothing is included in terms of that potential acquisition.  

COSTAS THEODOROU: Okay.  

NIK JHANGIANI: In terms of CapEx -- our numbers, you actually would be right, include what we expect to be able to -- or need to spend on the new acquisition in Cyprus and in Serbia that do not include anything for Italy. And they exclude the number for the [SIPS] project in Ireland, which we have talked about separately with the about 40 to 45% -- 40 to 45 million, of which we probably spent about 4 million in 2005.  

Your last question in terms of OpEx [per case], I would expect probably the continuing trend where we will continue to see investments into sales and marketing. For instance, I talked about what we're doing in Switzerland in terms of the number of salespeople. That's where our focus will continue to be and we'll continue to drive out some of those back office type of expenses. So I hope that clarifies that.  

And also, just going back to Sonya's question, Doros and I picked up the wrong number on Nigeria. For Q4 in terms of volume, we were down 2.5%, not 15% in the fourth quarter. And we're still up 10% for the full-year 2005 versus 2004.  

COSTAS THEODOROU: Okay. Just a follow-up, Nik, on the medium-term plan for return on invested capital expansion by 75 basis points, is this plan set up for any -- under the current situation? Or is it something that we could expect something of a different -- in the business let's say, not only in the (indiscernible) area but also on other areas?  

NIK JHANGIANI: That is rough guidance of 75 basis points per annum that kind of looked at our environment, including some of the benefits we would expect to see from the restructuring activities and any small type of bolt-on acquisitions. If it's something material and a complete change, I think that number would clearly change.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). There are no further questions at this time. Please continue.  

DOROS CONSTANTINOU: Thank you, operator. I would like to wrap up our call by saying that the initiatives that we took in 2005, coupled with the robust [plan] for 2006 provide a solid platform for future growth for Coca-Cola HBC. Our environment is not without challenges, but we feel we are better equipped today to overcome them. At the same time, this presents us with opportunities which we believe we have expertise and the ability to capture. With that, thanks for joining us today. Goodbye.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude our conference for today. For those of the wishing to review this conference, the replay facility can be accessed by dialing UK on 0044-1452-5500-00 or for within the UK 10845-245-5205. The reservation number is 1602505 followed by the hash key. Thank you for participating.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company | hellbo : Coca Cola E.E.E. S.A.
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060301e22f000ry
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,522 words
   PD
7 February 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company fourth quarter and full year 2005 earnings results conference call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors, therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants may contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Vice President and Director of Investor Relations.  

ANN TAYLOR, VP, DIRECTOR, IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for joining us. I'm pleased to be joined today by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. Following our prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions.  

   TD
Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent SEC report. In addition, I would like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our company website at CocaCola.com, in the investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to certain non-GAAP measures, which may be referred to by our senior executives this morning and in time to time when discussing our financial performance. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone. I hope you had a chance to review the release that we issued this morning. I'm not going to spend too much time on those details. Also given that we spent a good deal of time with you about the state of the business and the overall strategy and our detailed plans on Semper Seven at the investor meeting, I am going to make a few observations on the quarter and the full year this morning. And not go into those details again. And then Gary is going to follow-up with an overview of the financials and some additional perspective on 2006.  

I'm pleased to report to you this morning that we achieved another solid quarter of top line growth. We continue to see improvements in our execution across the globe and our results once again benefited from the geographic diversity of our business. Unit case volume growth in the quarter and full year were led by continued strong growth in key emerging markets, including China, Russia, Turkey, and Brazil. But in addition to that, both North America and Latin America delivered another solid quarter of unit case volume growth. In Germany, reported mid-single digit growth for the first time since 2003. As availability in this cart has helped to stabilize the business there. So, I am quite pleased about how the quarter has turned out.  

Most importantly, it brings to an end our transition year. 2005 was a year in which we made tremendous progress against the pre -- the key priorities that we laid out a year ago. As a result, the Company reached its internal budget for both volume and profit for the first time in more than five years. And I believe that's a further sign that the business is now on a solid base heading into 2006.  

As I mentioned earlier, I shared many of the accomplishments with you on December 7 and I'm not going to reprise them now, but now that we close out the year, I want to highlight four areas that deserve your attention. Carbonated soft drink trends, number one. Number two, progress on noncarbs. Three, accelerating growth in key markets and finally, our marketing and innovation pipeline. Firstly, with regard to carbonated soft drink trends. We are turning around our CSD brands. In 2005, we grew unit case volume for carbonated soft drinks over 2% for the first time since 2000. With our core brands leading the way. Trademark Coca-Cola grew 2% for the year and Sprite and Fanta each grew by mid-single digits.  

In addition, we were able to stabilize share trends. We essentially held share for the year. Now, that's not something that I'm entirely satisfied with, as you would imagine, but it does reflect a turn-around in trend compared to the overall share loss that we had in 2004 of almost a full percentage point. So we've arrested the decline and we are making progress.  

On noncarbs, we're accelerating our marketing and distribution capabilities to strengthen the overall portfolio. During 2005, our non-carbonated beverage business on a unit case basis grew by about 13%. And that means it accounted for a little over half of our total growth for the year. With very strong results from our core noncarb brands. POWERade was up over 20%. DASANI, with its international expansion and its flavor launches in the U.S. were close to 30% for the year. And Minute Maid grew by double digits. We also made very solid noncarb acquisitions in 2005, including Molton, which immediately gave us number one juice brand in Russia.  

Because of the progress we've made in these categories our non-CSD beverages approached 20% of our total beverage portfolio in 2005. Now, if you add in our diet CSDs to the more general health and wellness category, which I believe is where they belong, the overall percentage is approaching a third of our total portfolio brands and that's probably a number that will surprise a number of people. In package quarter juice and juice drinks and also in sports drinks. Not only did we gain share in the year, but we actually accelerated those share gains from the prior year. There is one category in which we lagged behind and that was tea and coffee and we will be addressing that this year through some of the initiatives that we talked to you about in December.  

The third item, accelerating the growth in key markets. We also made considerable progress in accelerating growth in our low per capita countries around the world. For the full year, unit case volume in our countries with per capita consumption below 150 grew approximately 10%. These countries now represent close to one-third of our total volume for the Company. And continue to grow in both importance and relevance to our operations. In particular, as I mentioned earlier, China, Russia, Turkey, and Brazil, each grew double-digits during the year. And importantly, it was balanced growth. Growth for both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. And, therefore, we increased our nonalcoholic ready-to-drink share in each of these markets.  

As we look ahead and assist 2006, global economic trends for many of these countries remain favorable and combined with solid and improving marketing and new product plans, we are optimistic that the positive trends in '05 are going to continue through to '06. Here in our home market of North America, we've stepped up marketing, innovation, and just as importantly, execution. As you read in the release, North America had another solid quarter, delivering unit case volume growth of 3% in the quarter and 2% for the full year. Up from flat performance in the prior year. We've improved trends on carbonated soft drinks from the prior year, supported by the successful launch of Coke Zero, which has now achieved nine-tenths of 1 share point in the latest Nielsen data and we have a very positive outlook about Coke Zero. We've stepped up on energy drinks with strong performance of full throttle and with the national advertising we're putting behind the brand, we believe that we will continue to see improving trends in 2006. Finally, both DASANI and POWERade had an excellent year with double-digit volume growth and increased share.  

So as a result of this strength, North America is now very close to reaching an important milestone. With the combination of our diet CSDs and non-carbonated beverages representing about [49%] of our total beverage portfolio for North America in 2005. Further, the innovation pipeline is strong heading into 2006 and we've got several new product launches and very strong marketing support in place. Which leads me, in fact, to my final point. The marketing and innovation pipeline.  

We've made very good strides in developing our marketing and innovation capabilities some of that step-up was reflected in our solid 2005 results. But I want to emphasize, too, that in 2006, and unlike 2005, we're heading to the beginning of the year with a strong pipeline of marketing and innovation in place, not just in our home market North America, but also around the world. Mary Minnick shared some of that with you in the December meeting and many of those early initiatives are in the pipeline. Some of them are already up and running. The advertising that we've launched in December in North America has had a very positive feedback, not just in terms of anecdotal reports, but also in terms of our tracking of the data. Coke Black has now been launched in France and it will be rolled out to several markets in Europe and North America in the next few months. And Coke Zero has now launched on Australia Day, the 26th of January. And although it's early to tell at the moment, the early indications are that we have got a very strong brand in Coke Zero in Australia and it's going to be a highly successful rollout for that system.  

And finally, as you may read in our press release this week, we are launching the first phase of a long-term communication platform called "Make every drop count." It's part of a multiyear strategy to build awareness around who we are and what we sell. The campaign will initially launch in the U.S., communicating the benefits of the Coca-Cola Company's broad portfolio of products, to meet consumer needs as well as educating consumers by sharing expertise and information about the role that beverages play in their lives.  

Finally, we've taken an important additional step in building our organization with the appointment of Muhtar Kent as P[resident of our International business. As President and CEO of north Asia, Muhtar, in a short period of time, has accomplished a great deal, leading a critical geographical region with great skill and accelerating our growth in some of those key markets. We've already heard those results in China and Russia and a good stabilization in Japan. Muhtar has a great dearth of experience in our own industry but also in the beer industry and his record of accomplishment make him the clear choice for this important position.  

As we accelerate our focus on execution, I want to emphasize, accelerate our focus on execution. 2006. It is critical that we have a structure that is going to evolve. And to ensure that our international operations receive a very high level of full-time attention. Under Muhtar's leadership, I know that's going to happen and you will see him in the not-too-distant future, in fact, very soon, make some announcements about how he will manage and change that organization. The emphasis and execution, then, leads me to my last point.  

With the progress that we've made in 2005 and a very well developed pipeline of innovation and marketing, we will be assessing ourselves against our long-term growth targets beginning in 2006 and beyond. But I'm also realistic. I recognize that accelerating execution will be critical in achieving those targets going forward. That is exactly what we will be doing. Let me now turn the call over to Gary. Gary?  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville and good morning. I'd like to spend just a few minutes covering the financial highlights of the release for the year and then we can get to your questions. As you saw in the release, we reported earnings per share of $0.36 on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter. There were two items primarily impacting comparability in our results on a year-over-year basis. The effect of these items was a reduction to the current quarter's earnings per share of $0.10. Those items were $0.08 per share reduction for the tax accrual related to the final piece of the repatriation of foreign earnings and additional $0.02 per share reduction related to charges at one of our equity investees. Therefore, our earnings per share after considering these items was $0.46 per share.  

For the full year, our reported earnings per share of $2.04, if you consider items impacting comparability, we reached $2.17, that's compared to $2.06 on a comparable basis in 2004. An increase of 5%. From a cash flow standpoint, we finished the year with another strong delivery of cash from operations, reaching a record $6.4 billion, a growth rate of 8%. I know it's easy to miss, but I just wanted to point out that that means that where we ended the year, our five-year CAGR on cash from operations has been about 12%. For the year, we paid out 2.7 billion in dividends, a 12% increase over the prior year on a per-share basis and additionally repurchased 2 billion of our stock at 15% increase versus the prior year.  

I'd like to address a few items and factors impacting our outlook for 2006. As Neville stated and as we outlined in the release, with the progress to date and the pipeline we have in place, we're comfortable being assessed against our long-term growth targets beginning in 2006 and beyond. In addition, our initial read on the macroeconomic outlook for the year is relatively positive, especially in many of the emerging markets. The notable exception to the outlook would continue to be Western Europe, which we believe will have relatively muted growth for the year.  

In terms of SG&A for 2005, it increased 11% as the planned increases and marketing and innovation expenses impacted results. As we have previously stated the 400 million of stepped-up expense is now built into the base level spend and we would expect SG&A to grow at a rate more in line with our longer-term view. In terms of input costs, there's certainly upward pressure, however, we're actively managing those pressures and executing strategies to limit the potential impact, although we do expect to see some increase, we believe it will be in a reasonable range. With regard to taxes, we ended the year with an underlying effective tax rate of 23.5% and our best estimate today for 2006 is that the underlying rate will be 24%.  

Now let me move to currencies. We saw a benefit from currencies for the full year on operating income up 3% after excluding those items that impact comparability. As we look at 2006, we expect currencies to have a negative impact. We have begun to put coverage into place and are effectively now covered through the first half of this year on the euro and the yen, based on current spot rates and the expected impact of the coverage in place, the negative impact on operating income would be approximately 4% for the full year 2006. I'm happy to report that that is significantly better than the 6% that I predicted in December. So rates are going as we predicted. However, we largely expect the impact -- the negative impact on currencies to occur during the first half of 2006 as we cycle very favorable rates from 2005. From a capital expenditure standpoint, we purchased approximately 900 million in capital during 2005, as I noted in our December analyst meeting, we expect that amount to increase to about $1.3 billion in 2006, primarily to build production capacity in North America.  

Finally, we repurchased 2 billion of the Company's stock in 2005 and anticipate that our range for share repurchase in 2006 to be between 2 and 2.5 billion. Before I close, I wanted to touch on the comment in the release about the new reporting segment for our consolidated bottling operations and unconsolidated bottling investments. Beginning in the first quarter of this year, we will begin to report these results as a separate segment under the leadership of Ariel Finnin. As we get closer to the first quarter earnings release, we will provide you with historical data for the new segment. That's it for the topics I wanted to cover. Now, operator, if we could turn to the questions. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your first question comes from Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Hi, good morning. I guess, Gary, in the fourth quarter, corporate expenses were up much higher than we were expecting. Can you talk a little bit about what happened on that line in the fourth quarter and also if you can make some comments about inventories, I think we were expecting that you'd be shipping behind consumption in the first quarter and it's not clear to me that you did that here.  

GARY FAYARD: Okay. Well, good morning, Bryan. First of all, on corporate expenses, that was actually in line with what we expected, particularly if you look at it on a full-year basis and as we ramped up our spending in marketing and innovation, a lot of it was actually the time. And I think if you remember back during last year, I said that a lot of -- particularly in the marketing space, the way the cycling would work because a lot of the marketing that's being restored was actually in the second half of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter, that's a lot of what you're seeing. Additionally, some of the ramping up in the innovation area actually was weighted toward the second half of the year, as well. And particularly in the fourth quarter. So I -- but if you look at the full year it was pretty much exactly what we expected. So actually no surprises there. And we would expect then next year, as I say -- or this year, 2006, to be more in line with our longer term models that we have talked about.  

Relative to gallons versus cases, this one, I need to give a little bit of detail so that I think the explanation would then be understandable. As you know, when we report on a quarterly basis on unit case sales, we report on average daily sales. Basically, if you will, think about it's the same as same-store sales. So we adjust for the number of days within a quarter and there were different numbers of days in 2005, in the first and the fourth quarters. And based on average daily sales, our unit cases in the fourth quarter were 4% growth over fourth quarter of 2004.  

On a reported basis, which is the actual -- actual absolute numbers of cases sold, which is what we report for the full year, the unit case growth in the fourth quarter was actually 5%. So our growth actually on reported basis, because there was one more day in the fourth quarter 2005, was actually 5% with gallons at 4. So, it was one behind. We had said that we expected it to be 2% behind. It came in a little bit better than we expected but there's no significant, I think, implications there and do not see significant implications on 2006, either.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay, great, thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Just want to delve into Europe a little bit more if I can. Given the progress in Germany, 4% growth and there were some comments that Coke is now available in a greater number of hard discounters and you're seeing progress there, why -- how can this -- or how would this strategy differ from what you're trying to do in northwest Europe? And how long will the progress take to get into the hard discounters in the U.K. and northwest Europe to turn around the volumes there? Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, we are in a number of discounters in northwest Europe. It was -- the exclusion was really Germany, that's where we started out. Because of the deposit laws and the island solution that the discounters came up with and a decision, not to participate in that island solution. As we reversed that decision, we have then been gaining availability and we're now available in all of the discounters that are available to us. The -- now, let me define available to us. There is one discounter ally that does not stock any brands. They're starting to -- to talk to people about doing that, but they don't and never have done. So that's no change over -- in fact, 25 years. So all of those that are -- do stock brands, now have our brands available in Germany. So that's part of it.  

We've also had -- we have plans in place to really accelerate where we are with regard to diets and lights. And we are moving out with the expanded noncarb portfolio. I talked at the last meeting about our Minute Maid launch, a great effort behind POWERade in the U.K. and there is more to come. So that's part of the innovation pipeline in terms of turning around northwest Europe, but it is not a discounter dependent issue. It really is a marketplace issue. So the two are not comparable in terms of the range of issues. The German issues were, let's say German-specific. There were also issues around the bottling system as well, as you know. And, of course, issues around the German economy.  

The deposit legislation is going to change, by the way, that's the third piece, sometime in the middle of the year. We believe it will be middle of '06. It's still going to be challenging because Germany is only turning around moderately, but, we've certainly turned the corner in Germany. Northwest Europe is going to be a year of turning that one around. I think you've seen us do it successfully in Germany. I believe we can do it in northwest Europe.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: And just as a clarification, Neville, I think in the third quarter you reported volumes down 3% in northwest Europe and down mid-single in the fourth. So moderately worse in the fourth quarter. And this then you're saying is not a channel issue, just more of an overall market consumption issue?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: That's correct. And you will see it actually reflected -- I mean there is a general consumer trend. You will see it reflected in, for example, beer results and the rest. And we factored all of that into our outlook for 2006. I mean that is in our plans for 2006, the softening part of the economy. U.K. in particular.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Gary, you had mentioned that in '06 you'd increase market spending more in line with the longer term goals. So given the big innovation pipeline for '06 and the supporting of the '05 products and some of these challenge markets, like northwest Europe, how will you be changing any allocation in the spending against that agenda to keep the spending in line with the long-term? And then also, if you can clarify for us the improved price mix in the quarter, up 3 versus up 1 year to date, the improvement in the Company on operation to Germany and India, how much of that drives the swing? Thanks.  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, thanks, Bill. A couple of things, relative to the marketing, I think as I -- a marketing and innovation, as I had said, would be more in line this year with our longer term models since the 400 million is now in the base. As we're looking at the marketing allocation and the spend and as well as innovation, one of the things that I think Mary has done a very good job with is -- in a very collaborative manner with each of the groups and the divisions around the world, looking at how we can be much more effective in our marketing, using our scale, but at the same time, making sure that there's local relevance, where we're using the marketing that we've developed across many markets. So, what we're actually seeing is not only an increase in marketing, if you will, off of the larger base for 2006, but also looking at -- continuing to look at ways to increase the efficiency of that spend as well as we use the cross market. So I think we're going to see kind of a double benefit from that in 2006.  

Relative to price mix benefit in it the quarter, it's -- it was 3% in the quarter. It's 1% full year, but 3% in the quarter. Which is pretty much in line, I think, with what the bottlers have been getting, a lot of that, though, was an increase because of better results in our finished product business for the top line, particularly Germany and North America. Now, you will also see, though, because we're not declaring victory on this one with the 3%, because you will see that cost of goods also increased because it was coming from the finished product business. So it actually -- it did not all come through at the gross profit line. So we're still committed to our model that we should be able on a long-term basis to get about 2%. We're starting to see some of that come through, but we're not declaring victory at this point.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Can I just add on the marketing -- because I think this is important. And it's part of what I did say in December, but it's worth repeating. We've been on a very significant journey to put real structure and discipline into how we go to market and you're starting to see some of that come through. That rebasing is part of that 18 to 24 months that I talked about in terms of the overall turn-around. And within that discipline is part of what Gary talked about in terms of what I call stopping the pendulum in the middle, between the local and the global, which then does drive costs out of the system. But is putting in a very collaborative model in term of exchanging ideas and -- right across the globe. And we are starting to get traction on that. And part of that, you've seen during the back half of the year, you will see more of it in '06. But it is a journey and I have wanted to go, in a way, slow in order to go fast. And you will start seeing that over -- after we get through that 24-month period. You will start seeing that ramp up. But I do want to emphasize the amount of work that we've put in in terms of having a disciplined process to the allocation that you're talking about and to then to pursuing where we think the highest growth, both in terms of volume but also in terms of margin and profit where those come from.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, good morning. I just want to follow up on the long-term pricing algorithm. As you mentioned, Gary, you're getting about 1% for 2005 in price and mix and your long-term algorithm calls for about 2%. Do you expect to hit that in 2006? And if so, what is going to change compared to this year?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Robert, thanks. And very good question. I would say it's a combination of several things. Number one, I think what you started to see in 2005 was a real emphasis on quality of growth and so while we look at the volume increase, the 4% for the year, the quality of growth was significantly improved over prior years and I think as we continue, as Neville said, continue to drive with a renewed focus on CSBs and we really believe we can drive CSBs, that quality of growth will definitely drive margin improvement for us.  

Secondly, we've also talked about that our bottlers, over the last four or five years, we have intentionally been very focused on improving financial health of the bottler system. Most of the bottlers are now back to or above their weighted average cost of capital. So we can now both move to grow together and so that will help us also with that 2% price mix. And as we get more normalized price increases. And then a real focus, not only on quality of growth, but a focus on mix -- and we really started seeing that coming through, particularly in North America this past year, as we really focused not only on diets, where, as you know, we get better margins, but also particularly on the energy category, where if you think back to the beginning of 2005, we were basically nonexistent in the energy category and by the end of this past year, we were a solid number two in the category in the U.S. So I think the mix and that balanced quality of growth, all of those together, as we continue to focus on that, will lead -- lead to that 2%.  

Now, with that -- I'm sorry this is a long answer, but I just want to be, -- go through all of that. As we think through -- I said that northwest Europe would have muted growth this year and as you think about that, that is a high margin country, as well. And back in December at our December analyst meeting, if you remember, I did say that there were some markets, if you think about the Phillipines, India, and northwest Europe, that would be a drag versus where we needed to be, but we also are seeing significantly improving health in the Company on bottlers, as well, which are not included in the model and that's why we feel very confident on where we are.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: And if I can just follow up, do you expect a higher concentrate price increases to be benefit in 2006 or is it more in 2007, when your highest incidence rates in Mexico go into effect, for example.  

GARY FAYARD: We, in fact, every year, increase concentrate prices for almost all bottlers throughout the year -- throughout the world. And those have been implemented. It just -- it happened that everyone heard about the ones in Mexico but we actually do that on a global basis every year. I would expect to see concentrate pricing back into a more normalized pattern than what we've seen in the last few years so we should see a benefit for that coming through in 2006.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Great, thanks.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Neville, to stay on that issue, since informing these Brazilian and Mexican bottlers of a modification to the pricing arrangement, you've now had two large bottling owners allocate almost $400 million to alternate food and beverage investments and some of the other bottlers are telling you that they're considering similar investments. Is this in conflict with your objective of accelerating execution and does it worry you that these bottlers are putting their bottling platforms and their bottling cash flows to work in long-term investments elsewhere, away from those brands?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: There's a very clear answer, and it's absolutely not. And you have been more delicate in your question than you were in your paper the other day. The reality of our system and the reality over 120 years has been that our bottling partners are invested in many businesses. You've got SAB Miller, which is invested in beer, Femsa which is invested in beer, their beer business has expanded in Brazil, which is a natural thing to do for a brewer. Even where you've got ownerships which are focused on CSDs or businesses, which are quoted and focused on CSDs, if you take and follow HBC, the families have got a multiplicity of other investments and they take their dividends and they invest them in hotels and everything else. This has gone on for 120 years. Many fortunes built out of it because it is a very strong cash flow business.  

The issue really is are the investors or are the bottlers keeping sufficient cash in order to be able to invest against the business plans that we have for the growth of the plans and the growth of the business. We review these plans with the bottlers. It's part of the bottlers agreement. There is a requirement in the bottlers agreement for them to invest sufficiently against the marketplace. And every single one of the bottlers you're talking about, and that would include Coca-Cola, Amytal with their approved acquisition of SPC Ardmona last year. Which we voted in favor of at the Board. Each one of those has met that criteria. So that's part of the business planning process. That's part of the contractual arrangement with all of the international bottlers. So I honestly think that as people look at the excess cash being invested in some other businesses, that they're chasing something that is not an issue, is not going to be detrimental to the business and which is not a depth definer of our relationship with the bottlers. At all. So I think this is a very small issue that is being blown into something that's seen to be much bigger than it is.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everybody. I was wondering, first, if Gary could just clarify why marketing -- the marketing upspend would affect corporate expenses? If you could go into that a little bit. Secondly, on equity income, the rate of growth slowed dramatically in the fourth quarter, if you could just address that. And I was also wondering, bottlers in North America have started to look outside of the Coke system for brands, which seems inconsistent with the stepped-up innovation that you've delivered and are promising. I'm just wondering what your attitude towards that is? And maybe you can wrap into that, just how you see things going with CCE?  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, Caroline, first on the marketing and corporate, there are two components. Number one, all of the innovation, or primarily all of the innovation spend is in markets, in corporate. And it's really a corporate function. So even though it's global, it's sitting in the corporate segment. And that's the reason, and as we said, that because of that, it would impact the fourth quarter. In addition to that, within corporate marketing itself, as I talked about, the new global campaign, et cetera, has been developed from the center and in corporate, in collaboration with the business units, but classified in the corporate segment which is why you're seeing the increase in corporate expenses in marketing and innovation in the fourth quarter.  

Relative to the bottlers looking outside of the Coca-Cola Company for brands, I can -- I guess maybe I almost need to ask you that -- for some specifics, but I can give you -- I know that there's one specific, a very small innovative brand that Coke Consolidated was picking up. That actually is something we've discussed with them. The owner of that brand, we know very well. It's really one of those where we need to just kind of see does it have legs, but I think by and large with all of our bottlers, we have a very good relationship about, together looking at the market, looking at what consumers want in the beverage categories and then delivering against that jointly. So I'd say by and large it's not an issue going forward.  

CAROLINE LEVY: And, Gary, the equity income growth slowing?  

GARY FAYARD: Oh, I'm sorry, on equity income, it's primarily because as we said in the release, there was about $0.02 per share impact on our results from some charges at an equity investee, so, it in fact, are some charges that's coming through that equity income line.  

CAROLINE LEVY: And also just following up on that corporate expense that you described, the way that it broke out, I guess the sort of $900 million for the full year is the new base but it's skewed very heavily in '05. Should we just even it out for '06?  

GARY FAYARD: Well, first -- it's spread unevenly because, primarily because of the marketing curve versus the 2004 base. Okay, because if you think about the increase in 2005, of the extra spend, primarily hit in the third and primarily the fourth quarter, so, you're seeing the percentages increase significantly, but it's because of the '04 base. So 2005 actually should be now a more normalized base on which to base your 2006 models.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.  

JUDY HONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, everyone. Neville, there's been a lot of chatter about the Coke system testing the warehouse delivery for POWERade in North America. I just wanted to get your thought on this topic and maybe more broadly speaking, just get your latest thinking on how you envision the bottler distribution system really evolving over time?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, that's a very good question because -- I want to answer this first globally... What we are dealing with and what we are responding to and responding positively to are the changes that are taking place with regard to our customers. And how they want us to serve them in order to be able to serve the market. One of the things that we've ramped up, as you know, is our overall customer level of expertise and I won't go through into all of those -- through all those details on that. But part of that is what we call a collaborative customer relationship model, which we are developing with a number of customers. And that means responding to their needs in a better way than we have in the past. So that's something that we have agreed around the world with our key bottlers in terms of doing that. Therefore, the test that you see in Wal-Mart, which is only in Texas, it's a small test at the moment, is part of, in fact, undertaking a review of how we might be able to go to market better with Wal-Mart and we will monitor those tests and we'll discuss with the other bottlers. Because it's actually not our test, it's a CCE test, wholly within the CCE territory, but we're doing that in a number of markets around the world. And, in fact, it is part of an overall look at systemic profitability.  

Therefore, it's part of a broader strategy and you will see summarized what's coming out in the next six weeks to two months, which will reflect the fact that we are addressing the overall system efficiency in various countries in some new ways and some new agreements, which benefit the total system, because at the end of the day, we're looking at the aggregate price, in other words, the price that meets the retailer and then meets the consumer. And if we can work with our bottlers to take cost out of that system to be much more effective and efficient, that's to our benefit and to the benefit of all the brands. So I've put this in a very broad context, but very deliberately so because it is part of a real strategy, with our bottlers, I will be down in Sidney with our top bottlers, six bottlers, at -- talking about these issues for a couple of days at the end of March again, very active dialogue that we have in terms of looking at different ways to market.  

So I think you will see that evolve. It will evolve on a rational basis with a rigorous analysis as to what the cost benefit of that is and clearly sometimes, not everyone likes to embrace change. You've seen that with some of the other things I've done. But if change is to the benefit of our consumers, and for our bottlers, and ourselves, we will move ahead.  

JUDY HONG: Great, thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Bucher with JPMorgan.  

JOHN BUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. Gary, you mentioned the fact that you're seeing an improvement in the quality of the volume. And to that point I know you guys -- you don't have a ton of bulk water in your volumes. I know you've been trying to get rid of it. Can you give us an update on where you stand relative to bulk water? Are you completely out of it at this point?  

GARY FAYARD: John, great question. I'm looking around the room to see if anyone can give me an answer.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: But -- John, I think completely out would be too strong. It is in no way significant. Anything that we have we have is at the edges. It's pretty small right now.  

JOHN BUCHER: I mean, can you give us an idea of how much -- was it 2% two or three years ago and you've drawn it down mostly to Zero? I'm trying to figure out if it's been a noticeable drag on results over the past couple of years, at least from a volume standpoint.  

ANN TAYLOR: John, I will have to get back to you on the data for that.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes. Significant it will not be, but it will be noticeable. That's -- that's what I would say. Directionally I will get the numbers to you.  

JOHN BUCHER: Okay, thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Greenberg with Nicholas.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Thanks, operator. Good morning, everyone. Neville, on your long-term targets, when you talk about '06 and assess us against the targets beginning in '06, do you expect to perform at least in line with these targets in '06 on a currency neutral basis? And then secondly, if you could, could you characterize the -- I don't know how to phrase it, but the pain/gain dynamic out there among your managers if you do or do not hit these targets in '06?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay. Let me deal with pain/gain, the pain game. But I would rather say it's the benefit game because obviously we're driving for people to exceed the targets and I am going to go back to '05. The fact that we have exceeded our internal targets in '05 and I pointed to the fact that that is the first time for many years, is actually very beneficial to morale because people feel that they can actually win again and they're able to achieve their targets. And honestly, I can't overemphasize the benefit of that. So the targets for '06 are certainly within that benchmark that we have. And they're realistic and they're achievable and peoples at risk remuneration is going to be linked to those targets. And as I say, we're going to stay within -- to hold the range of the benchmarks that we've given you. We must deliver against those and the reward comes by overdelivering, but I'm not promising overdelivery in '06. That's not where I'm headed, but I'm pushing the system to better execution, to enable us to hopefully be able to do that as we go into the future. That's my goal.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Lauren Torres with HSBC.  

LAUREN TORRES, ANALYST, HSBC: Good morning. Just to pursue Mark's question a little bit more, my thoughts are for '06 and trying to achieve the 6 to 8% operating income growth targets. Seeing '05 somewhat difficult getting some operating leverage here, what gives you confidence in '06 that these targets, particularly that 6 to 8%, is achievable in '06?  

GARY FAYARD: Lauren, Gary. A couple of things -- I'd go back to some of the prior comments, is around quality of growth. That's number one. And where the growth is coming from. The second, and we have not really discussed it today, we have in the past, is that if you think about the marketing spends that we had in 2005, that $400 million increased step-up, most of that, as we have talked this morning about cycling and quarter spreads and those kinds of things, as I've said, most of that marketing actually hit in the fourth quarter 2005, a large percentage of it. Marketing does not immediately pay back, particularly when it's brand-building.  

So one of the things I think we have is starting with quality of growth, starting with a real focus on mix, but also we strongly believe the impact of that marketing from the third and fourth quarters particularly, then helping us in 2006 as we go forward and then continuing the spend on the brands, off of that increasing -- off of that new base that we have, additionally our innovation pipeline, we started really ramping up last year. We would expect to continue to see that ramp in 2006 as we introduce new innovations and that's not just new product variance as new brands, but it's new packaging. It's ll of the areas of innovation. So I think if you think in terms of quality of growth. If you think about the marketing spend and improving marketing at the same time and the innovation that was ramping during '05, it should give you some confidence going into 2006.  

LAUREN TORRES: Okay. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Ann Gurkin with Davenport.  

ANN GURKIN, ANALYST, DAVENPORT: Good morning. Neville, you reviewed the transition year, I was wondering if you'd comment on where the progress has been greater than you expected, where it's been slower than you expected, kind of give us an update, progress report?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I -- I think that as I talked in around about May -- March, April, May, so, if you go to the beginning of the year, I was not happy at that time with the traction we were getting with marketing and innovation, and that's why I made the change, so that is part of '05. I would say that I'm extremely happy at how quickly we've managed to wrap that up and deliver better marking and begin that innovation process. So I think we're back on track at the end of the year, but we weren't at the beginning of the year. The other thing that I really want to emphasize is this whole issue of morale. That has been significantly improved. We're talking about 10%, 12% improvements, as we measure against some of the key morale measures and that is very significant. This business is now starting to believe that it can win again. And we monitor that. We track that. And the fast-moving consumer goods business, yes, we have to have great marketing, yes, we have to have great innovation, but it all comes from people and people who are absolutely well motivated. And that to me is a major success, although it's something you will never see on the bottom line until the innovations and marketing come through.  

The -- I think that there are really two areas that I'd point to as being disappointments, northwest Europe. I think we've talked about that. And then also the Phillipines, where I obviously have a lot of history and where the execution in the marketplace has resulted in some very disappointing numbers. Even though we're holding -- largely holding share. We haven't lost a lot of share in the Phillipines. The market -- we have contracted the market by not doing the right things. We have got a program to try and address that, but that is going to take time. So, that would be my biggest single disappoint. But we've made wide-ranging progress. It's not just a couple of parts of the world. I pointed out to the strength of Latin America, I did mention Africa, it's 5 to 6% of our business, but again, strong, steady growth in a difficult environment. Then of course, the Chinas and the Russias continue to do very well in central and eastern Europe and, of course, through to Turkey. That's very, very strong and a very stable growth in Japan. We have never highlighted Japan as being something that was going to accelerate our growth rate in a major way, but given its level of profitability, we need good, solid growth there and we see that coming through in '05.  

And then the last thing I would point to is the -- working with our bottlers. In fact, last night I had dinner with the Chairman of CCE and we were just talking about how much better we were working together as a system he'd be either at a meeting in Texas watching our people work. He spent two days out there and said, you know, I won't give an exact quote, but he did say there was no nonsense, let's put it that way. And today it was all about the nitty gritty, all about what we needed to do together to build this business over a three-year timeframe. You can ask them that question tomorrow when they release their results. Because I'm sure he will bear me out on it. I do think -- although there's a noise level, which I believe is incorrect, that the relationship with the top to top bottlers has significantly improved.  

ANN GURKIN: Right. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Matthew Riley with Morningstar.  

MATTHEW RILEY, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning, I just had a quick question on long-term CSD growth. It seems like the Company might be in store for kind of a prolonged adverse mix shift. As I know many times you've talked about how CSDs are the most profitable category. That is, we keep on seeing double digits in noncarbs and water. How can you keep profitability up despite this kind of long-term trend?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think number one, that we've demonstrated that there's growth still in carbonated soft drinks and we've demonstrated that in '05. That's something that I've said continually since I came back in June of '04 that I did not believe that growth in carbonated soft drinks was over and we've seen a 2% growth this year. That's in line with our targets. So then there's the other side of the equation, which is the growth of noncarbs and you point to water. Water is lower margin, but not everything is lower margin. In fact, if you look at energy drinks, if you look at sports drinks, where we're getting very good growth, you will see within that, that we are able to get better margins.  

And I will -- we're doing extremely well. If you go back to a data point on that, Kennadien who does global research, something that we don't normally talk about and something that you don't normally see, they've come up with some numbers for juice and sports drinks, globally for the year. They say that we captured 37% of the growth in juice and juice drinks worldwide, that gives us a 9.7 share worldwide in '05. And in sports drinks, we captured 57% of the growth. And in our global share of sports drinks is 25%. That's putting POWERade and Aquarius, our two sports drinks, together. POWERade, as you know, that grew strongly, but Aquarius, our other sports drink, grew 25%. So the equation is not one of noncarbs being unprofitable. Some of them are narrower margins. Water, clearly, but we're moving that again to more value-added with better margins, with the flavor extensions and, of course, the upcoming launch of DASANI Sensations in the United States. So, I believe that that -- the global trends fit our model. That's how we put it together. And the real pushback is I believe there's still growth in CSDs.  

MATTHEW RILEY: Do you think that 2% can accelerate?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I -- in our model, it's 2 at the moment. I think that as we address some of the issues that we will be able to probably do better over time. But I'm not making a specific prediction for 2006. Operator, I think we're out of time. I want to just first of all clarify something in my opening comment where I referred to the combination of diet carb -- diet soft drinks and noncarbs. My funny accent sounded to some people as if I said 40%. I said it's 49% of the North American business. I will get a translator next time.  

So thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. I -- as you heard, believe that we've had another solid quarter. It's in the books. And that the plans are well in place for 2006. Again, I'll repeat, it's about accelerating our execution. As we continue to turn this ship around and, in fact, to now move it forward. So I look forward to talking to you again, the first quarter call in April. Thank you very much, everyone.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060221e227000p3
  


 HD
 Q3  2005 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,479 words
   PD
20 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Dennis and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's third quarter and year-to-date 2005 conference call.  

All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question-and-answer portion of the call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Due to the interest in this call, we will only allow one question per person. Your line will be muted after your question is received.  

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations department if they have questions.  

I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

ANN TAYLOR, DIRECTOR IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for joining us.  

I am pleased to be joined today by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, and Dominique Reiniche, the head of our European Group.  

Following our prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we request a limit to one question per turn.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautious statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  

In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our Company Web site at cocacola.com in the Investors Section, which reconcile our results as reported under General Accepted Accounting Principals to certain non-GAAP measures, which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our Web site for this information.  

Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning, everyone.  

I'm sure you've all had a chance to review the release that we issued this morning so I'm not going to spend too much time on those details. And just to say similar to last quarter, I'm going to make a few brief remarks on where we stand.  

But importantly, I want to turn the call over to Dominique so she can review the results of the newly created European Union Group. And then Gary's going to follow as usual, with some additional insights on the financials for the quarter. And then, of course, we look forward to your questions.  

I'm certainly pleased to report to you this morning that we have achieved another solid quarter of top line growth. We are seeing improvements in our execution across the globe and our results benefited from true geographic diversity of our business.  

[inaudible] In the early stages of our journey and we still have much work to do in the coming months. But we are making progress and we continue to focus our actions on laying the foundation for what I insist will be long-term sustainable growth.  

This quarter has again displayed the benefits of being the only truly global beverage company and balancing results across our portfolio countries. I'm going to with the negatives, the positives and the negatives that we highlighted in the release.  

We do continue to see unit case volume declines in India, the Philippines, and to a lesser extent in Germany. In fact, if you exclude just those three, the negative volume impact of those three, we actually would have achieved 3% growth in carbonated soft drinks alone for the quarter globally. So that's 100 basis point improvement.  

Now, that shows the balance but also I would add that we're addressing the issues in these markets and as I've emphasized before, it's going to take time to get these markets to where we want them to be. However, solid growth in many other markets allowed us to offset this weakness and achieve 5% total unit case volume growth for the quarter.  

Latin America had another impressive quarter, driven by Mexico and Brazil, as did Africa, driven by strong double-digit growth in South Africa. Also, the success of several new product launches, including Hajime green [tea] and Aquarius Active Diet contributed to Japan's results.  

We also captured additional growth in our low per capita consumption countries. The statistic that I gave you last quarter, exactly the same number this quarter.  

Countries with per caps of less than 150, we grew 12% for the quarter. So, that's the same as the prior quarter. And that doubled what we were doing on a two-year average, the trailing two-year average.  

So, where's that coming from? Well, in particular, China, Russia and Turkey delivered exceptional growth, combined 23%. And by the way, that excludes the acquired Multon brands in Russia.  

Over one-third of the unit case volume growth from these three countries was attributed to non-carbonated beverages before factoring in the Multon acquisition again, so it's a broad-based growth. I think this is a testament to our ability to simultaneously deliver carbonated soft drink growth and at the same time accelerate our position in non-carbonated beverages.  

I've talked about bolt-on acquisitions and Multon being one, which has benefited us in the quarter. Again, the numbers I've given you have excluded Multon, but that is an integral part of our strategy in order to enhance our portfolio of brands.  

North America, they also delivered solid unit case volume growth of 3% in the quarter, which, as you know, is ahead of the long-term target that we've set of 1 to 2%. We continue to see our efforts in core CSD with the focus on diet and light, which we've [inaudible] that innovation with you before.  

So, that focus is still there and you've heard Don Knauss talk about that before. Great deal of activity in this space during the year.  

We've still got Fresca relaunch rolling out and I think I maybe will comment in particular on Coke Zero because I know that there's been a real focus on the performance of Coke Zero. To date the launch still remains slightly ahead of our internal projections, both volume and share terms, and we do believe that this brand is going to continue to build over time.  

The consumer measures remain strong, including a particular trial and very importantly repeat scores. And we'll be launching the next phase of our marketing campaign behind Coke Zero in the fourth quarter.  

In addition, North America continues to accelerate its non-carb beverage portfolio and we're gaining share on the strength of our POWERade, Dasani and Minute Maid brands. Talking about share, our share position around the world continues to stabilize as we focus both on driving CSDs whilst expanding our participation in non-carbonated categories.  

As we move on to market and innovation, Mary Minnick recently discussed our new approach to capturing that whole consumer opportunity in beverages by looking at need states across a whole continuum of enjoyment. And if you look at what we're, the three filled buckets that we look at is enjoyment today, it's feel good today, and it's be well tomorrow.  

So, we're utilizing that opportunity to map as we go through our [inaudible] planning process a prioritization of our investment and a proper allocation of our resources against the key growth paths. And these are continuing to drive our core brands with a focus on diet and lights and, of course, capturing the health and wellness trend.  

Aggressively expanding our product packaging portfolio, you will see more of that as we go ahead, focusing in particular on the immediate consumption opportunity which is also [of] major importance to our bottlers, continuing to nurture system health and that's also linked, of course, to the immediate consumption opportunity, and increasing overall customer value.  

In terms of our key growth paths, we're really slowly starting to see some very positive trends. If you think of it, in supporting our core brands, global trademark Coca-Cola, Sprite and Fanta unit case volume growth grew 2, 6 and 5% respectively in the quarter.  

In total, therefore, our core brands contributed almost 40% of the volume growth for the quarter. In particular, we're pleased with the international growth of trademark Coca-Cola and contributed 26% of our total volume growth for the quarter.  

Then in terms of expanding our diet and light portfolio, on a worldwide basis, we grew our diet CSD unit case volume by 3% in the quarter and that's 4% year-to-date. And if you take our international operation, diet and light CS volume grew by 7%, led by the European Union Group with continued innovations on Diet Coke, but also importantly with the rebranding of the launches of our flavor brands Fanta and Sprite.  

We're also profitably expanding our beverage and packaging portfolio and making inroads into balancing our growth across the categories. [In the] third quarter, we reported total non-carbonated beverage unit growth of 17%, with balanced growth both domestically and internationally.  

Importantly, if you take water away, excluding water, our remaining non-carbonated beverages grew 13% with a 16% internationally. On a year-to-date basis, non-carbonated beverages now constitute 90% (ph) of our total volume. That is a point and a half increase versus last year.  

So, year-to-date, we've made good progress but we still recognize there's no substitute for performance and consistent results. Our ability to achieve growth by managing our portfolio of countries and products has certainly been [apparent] in the last few quarters and we're going to continue to focus against growth powers we've enunciated to ensure that we deliver not short-term growth, but also quality and sustainable growth.  

This is why there's fundamentally no change in my point of view that we're on a journey. I am satisfied with our progress to date and believe that our 18 to 24-month turnaround is on track.  

But I'm also realistic and I recognize that there will no doubt be some bumps along the road as we manage our way through to that goal of sustainable growth.  

So, with that, I'd like to turn over to Dominique, who is one of the newest members of our executive management team, having joined the Company back on the first of May. But she's not new in many ways. She's 13 years experienced in the Coca-Cola system, most recently as President of Coca-Cola Enterprises Europe, where she built a dynamic and successful business and earned the respect of partners, customers and competitors.  

With that, over to you, Dominique.  

DOMINIQUE REINICHE, PRESIDENT, COO EU GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville and good morning, everyone.  

As Neville alluded to in his remarks, the European Union Group has been recently created and it covers countries offering a lot of similarities in markets and trading conditions. And as such, of course, it's put the spotlight on the underlying structural challenges and opportunities that are specific to these countries.  

So, with this in mind, we'll still focus today on the root causes of the challenges and more importantly the opportunities they create for us, along with this [inaudible] being the business solutions that are already producing results in several countries, and which are being transferred throughout the entire EU Group.  

First, I turn to the third quarter results. As you've seen from the release this morning, we grew volume 1% versus prior year which was below our expectations.  

I have to say we are pleased with the growth in central Europe of 8%, Spain continues to be a great success story, delivering 4% growth. And with the tough environment in Germany, as Neville already mentioned in his remarks, volume was down1% for the quarter, which is an early sign of stabilization compared to previous quarters and years.  

On the other hand, Northwest Europe had a difficult quarter with unit case volume down 3%, clearly a disappointing performance.  

So now, what are the underlying root causes affecting our results? There are four which are present to varying degrees across the different markets.  

First, a very soft economic environment, unfortunately. Also, overall return [of] inflation and growth of our discounters, an underlying shift in consumer preferences away from regular CSDs and driven by health and wellness trends and the associated public opinion, media and government attention to it.  

In many parts of Europe, we are already successfully addressing these root causes using our strategies of number one, driving our core carbonated soft drink brands with specific focus on diets and lights, but not only.  

Second, expanding our non-carb beverage portfolio with both new product launches as well as acquisitions. Number three, accelerating immediate consumption throughout our markets.  

And number four, very importantly, using revenue growth management and packaging innovation to create value for customers and consumers.  

Let me next take a few minutes to describe how we are putting these strategies into practice across Europe. And then I'll talk more specifically about Northwest Europe, where these impacts are currently the most intense.  

So starting with the overall group, I'm pleased to report, as Neville mentioned already, that we have succeeded in maintaining our share of volume for CSDs, while generally increasing our value share across the group. Encouragingly, in central Europe, we have grown CSDs by 3% and there are some signs in Germany, France and Nordic, that we are stabilizing CSD trends in Q3.  

I'm also glad to say that diets and lights continue to perform well across the group and this quarter they increased again by 4%. In Nordic countries, we even grew light double-digits, thanks to the successful combination of Fanta Free, Sprite Zero launches together with retargeting our flagship Coke Light toward dual users so both Coke regular and Coke Light users.  

Turning now to our non-carbonated beverages, also called NCBs, this portfolio only represents 10% of our total European sales today, including waters. So not surprisingly, our strategy clearly focuses on accelerating the broadening of our NCB portfolio by expanding the reach of our global brands like POWERade, Aquarius, Nestea and Minute Maid to cover new consumer need states as previously described by Mary Minnick.  

In Spain, for instance, improved consumer insights and integrated marketing has enabled us to grow NCBs by nearly a third year-to-date, and a key contributor to this growth has been Aquarius, which capitalizes on no carbonation, low calories and healthy refreshment. This is, in my view, a good illustration of a sports-oriented drink being transformed into a mainstream lifestyle beverage therefore capturing even more consumer occasions.  

Despite these encouraging achievements, we still acknowledge that our NCB presence is not yet satisfactory and that's why in addition to internal growth, we are also pursuing appropriate local bolt-on acquisition opportunities like you've seen Valser in Switzerland or Multivita in Poland.  

As regard our deliberate focus on immediate consumption, we continue to strengthen this business through new trade initiatives and tailored consumer promotions. In Italy, for instance, POWERade has just become immediate consumption leader, driven by the introduction of a new flavor and accelerated cooler placement in parallel.  

When it comes now to top end growth rate, we have adapted to the current aggressive competitive landscape causing downward pricing pressures. Our focus on revenue growth management initiatives and packaging innovation launches is designed to give the right pack and price combinations for the savvy, value-conscious shopper.  

[Hard] discounters, too, are an important factor in today's retail landscape and we want to be at the leading edge of these customer relationships. In Germany, we have already made good progress this year gaining or regaining, sometimes, availability with our large PT packages.  

Now, let's talk more specifically about these challenges in Northwest Europe, where their impacts have been intensifying since mid '04 and into '05.  

To date, I must say that the implementation of our strategies has not been sufficient to reverse the trends and these quarters reserves were clearly below our expectations, as I previously said. So although we remain fully committed to executing our strategies, because they are starting to produce good results, we are, at the same time, also accelerating the cascading of learnings and business solutions from other markets.  

Some examples and some concrete illustrations, starting with CSDs, we have achieved 5% growth year-to-date in diets and lights through significant innovations. In Great Britain, we have grown diet CSDs by 9% this year, taking our overall CSD share up almost 3 points.  

This has been led by our Diet Coke with Lime, together with the rebranding of diet [inaudible], including Fanta and Sprite, with the Zed campaign, Zed for Zero, which nearly doubled our light share in fruit carbonates.  

Minute Maid launches have strengthened our NCB presence in Northwest Europe. With our fresh mix juice drinks launch we have grown Minute Maid in France significantly and in Great Britain, our not from concentrate new carafe bottle has met with very good early acceptance.  

Now to customers. The program of customer value creation in GB including collaborative planning and promotions, out of stocks and display units, has enabled us, with our bottler, to be ranked number one by the leading independent trade survey and also to be elected SMCG Supplier of the Year by the leading retail magazine, "The Grocer."  

As for immediate consumption and taking this time the example France, France is using a more focused approach in a number of high traffic urban areas therefore growing distribution to over 95% for the profitable half liter of Coke and overall volume by plus 15%. This was done through doubling sales force call frequency in these so-called boost zones and placing more cold drink equipment.  

Needless to say, we will be expanding the number of these zones going into '06.  

Still in France and turning to revenue growth management, we introduced Fridge Pack in February as part of an overall multi-pack strategy designed to increase volume and system margins. Through this, we've seen home channel growth of 5% while also in parallel increasing revenues per case.  

Going forward, and this applies to Northwest Europe and more generally to Europe as a whole, we need, I'm convinced, to re-double our efforts in rapidly transferring the best available knowledge between markets to capture growth and that is where the processes and structures are being put in place to personalize manifesto for growth, will enable us to quickly leverage existing innovations and to expand the footprint of our global brands.  

To this end, we have put in place cross-functional and multi-country teams to transfer innovations and best practices in smarter and more effective ways. Using an example of these new teams for the juice category, Italy and Central Europe have joined forces to successfully launch healthy and refreshing juice drinks and other Minute Maid Cappy brand and we immediately rolled out this profitable health and wellness proposition across Western Europe, launching new Minute Maid juice drinks, both in G.B. and France with further launches planned for '06.  

I hope that this illustrates to you all the efforts we are making and although we are conscious that there are no quick fixes and never lend a line the fact that we are on an 18- to 24-month journey, our confidence that we will gain traction in Europe in '06 and beyond is based on the combination of the formation of the EU Group, which enables us to tackle these issues relentlessly.  

Also, a strong and diverse team, closely aligned with our bottlers. Encouraging progress in Germany with bottler consolidation prospects, and last, but not least, a strong innovation pipeline to capture profitable growth in several beverage categories such as energy and [still] drinks.  

So in summary, we continue to be focused on delivering our long-term targets at the same time as executing on clear business priorities for the short-term. We have the right strategies in place, but we also recognize that we face some challenging conditions, especially for the remainder of '05 and as we kick off 2006.  

Thank you very much for your time and attention today and now I'll pass on to Gary. Gary?  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Dominique and good morning, everyone.  

I'd like to spend a few minutes covering what may be top of mind before we get to your questions.  

As you saw in our release this morning, we reported earnings per share of $0.54 for the third quarter. There were two items impacting comparability of our results on the year-over-year basis.  

The net effect of these items was a reduction to the current quarter's EPS of $0.03 per share. The items were $0.04 per share reduction for the $89 million non-cash write-down of assets in the Philippines.  

That was partially offset by approximately a penny per share benefit from a favorable resolution of tax matters. Therefore, our EPS after considering these items was approximately $0.57 per share.  

I want to discuss a few additional items that are worth mentioning as they relate to the balance of the year. In the fourth quarter, we expect the growth of gallon sales to lag reported unit case sales by at least 2 points, primarily due to the favorable timing of gallon sales as of the end of the third quarter versus our expectation and the cycling of higher gallon sales in the fourth quarter of 2004.  

As you saw in the release, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 9% in the quarter. Within that direct marketing expense increased 18%. So, we're on track with our approximately 400 million of incremental marketing.  

As we previously stated, we expect marketing based on a unit case sales curve [inaudible] the year, given the flow of our marketing expense by quarter in 2004, we expect the marketing growth rate in the fourth quarter to accelerate.  

Other operating expenses in the quarter benefited from favorable timing such as lower stock based compensation expense and various small gains on land sales, et cetera. Year-to-date we've benefited about a penny favorable timing of operating expenses which we would expect to spend in the fourth quarter.  

There is some upward pressure on input cost, however, we are actively managing these figures for the fourth quarter and expect limited impact.  

For 2006, the cost situation is evolving, but is difficult to predict but we're monitoring it closely and are executing strategies to limit and potential impact. At this point, we expect any cost increases to be in a reasonable range.  

With regard to tax, we are lowering our estimate for our full-year underlying effective tax rate from 24% to 23.5%. In the third quarter, we recorded a year-to-date catch-up which benefited the quarter by about a penny per share, and we expect the fourth quarter's underlying effective tax rate to be 23.5%.  

Let me move to currencies.  

We saw a benefit from currency at the operating income level for the quarter. Excluding the items impacting comparability, the currency impact on operating income for the quarter and year-to-date was 4%.  

Fourth quarter [from] our hedged position and our mix of currencies, we expect an negligible impact from currencies on operating income. Currencies as we look in the 2006, we currently have minimal coverage in place and we do expect a negative currency impact on our full-year operating income in 2006, given the relatively high exchange rates we've benefited from throughout most of 2005.  

If exchange rates remain at today's level, the negative impact year-on-year would be approximately 5% however, I expect the dollar to weaken somewhat through 2006 and if that happens, the impact would be somewhat less than that.  

Relative to share repurchase, we repurchased $525 million of our shares in the quarter, 1.6 billion year-to-date, puts us right in line with our full-year expectation of repurchasing at least 2 billion of the Company's stock.  

Turning to repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act, in addition to the approximately $2.5 billion we announced in the first quarter, the Company, subject to board approval later today, will repatriate the remaining 3.6 billion available during the fourth quarter of 2005.  

Therefore, in the fourth quarter, we will record a tax provision for the repatriation of approximately $200 million of [inaudible] with [inaudible] billion repatriation. In total, we will have then have repatriated 6.1 billion, which is our previously disclosed maximum amount.  

Finally, I'd like to reiterate what Neville mentioned in the opening.  

I believe the first quarters reflect that we're making very good progress. We remain focused on our objective of delivering long-term sustainable growth.  

And with that, I'd like to turn to your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS ] Your first question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Yes, good morning, everyone. Was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the North Asia, Eurasia and Middle East result?  

Very strong case volumes but relatively weak revenue and operating income performance and can you maybe break out some of the impacts there, whether it was the juice acquisition or you also mentioned the gallon sales growth in Japan was behind case volume. Can you sort of walk us through why the variance between volume, revenue and operating income?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, John, it's Gary. A couple of things there. We did have a very good quarter in that group. A lot of the case volume increase obviously were coming from the emerging markets. China, particularly, had another very good quarter as did Russia.  

A large part of the operating income result deals with Japan and the gallons being behind cases was a large impact of that as well as a lot of marketing being put into that part of the world because we see it as one of our key growth areas moving forward.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. And then we should see a normalization of the gallons versus cases in Japan going forward?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, we should.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody. I wonder if you could walk us through the same idea in the East South Asia-Pacific rim and also, I think that the, you know, that the growth in the European Union in profits was actually higher than expected given the challenges. So, in each of those two divisions, if you could do the same thing that you just did in Asia.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, if we take the Pacific Rim, just to shorten the acronym, clearly you've got the major, the two major effects, which is the Philippines and India. And that underperformance is a lower, actually lower margin business.  

Really, your overall operating income strength comes from the South, from Australia and there was a, also we didn't talk about some volume weakness in that part of the world, but you've seen that in CCA's results and numbers. And that clearly was the main driver from a role profitability standpoint.  

In the E.U., Gary, you want to just go through those numbers?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Caroline, one other thing around the Pacific Rim in the operating income results, if you're looking at the segment data, in their results for this quarter versus prior-year quarter, the impairment charge that we took in the Philippines is in the operating income results of the Pacific Rim and so that's $85 million at the operating income line and that's a reason for a lot of the swing there.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. Just, Gary, one clarification. The SG&A line, we're trying to figure out how to model that into the fourth quarter, how much the stock option expense was down in the quarter because you mentioned there's about a penny of the innovation spend timing we shift into the fourth quarter, market spending was up 18%, but with that line, only up 8 or 9. How much was stock option expense down?  

And then on the raw material environment, while you see minimal impact for the Coca-Cola Company, any other impact though in terms of the global bottlers seeing a lot of inflation on resin and fuel, maybe needing to raise prices and how the system is trying to pull levers to mitigate the pricing required and any related volume impact?  

GARY FAYARD: Okay. Bill, I tell you what, we're looking right now, let me get the exact number on the G&A, but basically what you are seeing is on the 8%, number one, increase, that includes, as I said, 18% on marketing. The 8% was actually 9% and a point of that was currency, if you will, and the stock option expense savings I think, were about $0.005, if I remember. And most of that is now in the number.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me just pick up the cost inflation issue. For us, we don't have a lot of product in terms of Coca-Cola [inaudible] pricing, but that does roll through to the bottlers in pricing there.  

With regard to PET, there are two factors that you have to look at. One factor is overall situation with regard to obviously energy costs and the input costs with oil, but also the nature of the overall industry in terms of capacities and we're seeing incremental capacity coming on in Asia and are still negotiating for next year, so it's premature to actually give you a number, but we think that that there will be very tough competition with our suppliers and that that is going to mitigate what you would have normally have factored in because of margin reduction on PET.  

So, I think that the costs going forward are going to be really less than some people anticipate. I am talking about that across the bottler system.  

It's still a little bit too early to actually pin that down, as I say, because we haven't negotiated the contracts, but the main factor there, that I think most people have missed, is the incremental capacity coming out of Asia and what's going to happen with regard to that.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzburg with Legg Mason.  

MARK SWARTZBURG, ANALYST, LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER: Thanks, Operator. Good morning, everyone. Neville, I wonder as you look around the globe, if you could give us an update on your thinking regarding supply chain and route to market initiatives, broadly the opportunity for changes there. And then specifically if you could update us on what you've been doing in Mexico in this regard, I'd be interested in your thoughts there, as well.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay. Well obviously we've talked to you before about the supply chain that we've put in Japan. That is better than on track. In fact, the savings there are well ahead of what we originally anticipated.  

And, by the way, the gallon swings that are there with regard to Japan are part of the inventory movements as we pull all of that together. That's why it's a little jagged. But if you look at supply chain itself, there's very good success out of what we've done in Japan.  

Mexico, the recent announcement of the sales company there, joint sales company, I think is going to be a very important piece of the onward growth of non-carbs in Mexico. And as you know, we have a significant multi-bottler system in Mexico so I am very pleased that the bottlers have got together to put together an organization that's going to enable us to go to market in a coordinated fashion, which is really very important with regard to non-carbs.  

The benefit of that is still to come but having said that, we already have a number of new launches some, you know, 20 new products have been introduced over the last six months or so into the non-carb arena in Mexico and we're starting to see that happen. So, then if you take it in a broader context, I mean this is somewhat of a journey that we've started some time ago but which we're now accelerating as we meet with our bottlers and [we're], therefore, seeing increased opportunities to put together the type of organizations, and I'm not going to speculate where we would go next, but the type of organizations that you've seen in Japan and that you have seen in Mexico.  

Now, then you would go to a Germany where, in fact, there's something different taking place, which is the consolidation of the bottler. But then that also is having exactly the same opportunity with regard to consolidated supply chain.  

And there are a number of other initiatives going on along the same lines, talking to our top bottlers about IT and [degration] IT, there are major savings we believe we can bring about there. And the highlight is that we have a very significantly increased focus on the supply chain settings and therefore to really focus on that, we have moved the whole supply chain, reporting [relations] across to Ariel [inaudible] the head of Bottling Investments.  

And Ariel charged with accelerating, we're doing pretty well right now, but accelerating our efforts in terms of addressing the supply chain issue. So I think there will be much more to report there in the future and I think it's very important going forward.  

So not only as we address the issue of incremental marketing, but we're looking at how we fund some of that growth. And we fund some of that growth by taking some significant costs that we've identified out of the system, but also when it comes to non-carbs, it's even more important in terms of enabling a coordinated route to market.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey, good morning and thanks for taking the call. A question, Neville, on the Philippines. If you could just talk a little bit more about what you've done so far. If I remember it correctly, you've introduced a smaller, 200 milliliter glass package to address the affordability issue. And curious to know if that was in the market in the third quarter and if it was, is there something additional that you're going to need to do there to address that issue?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay, the, it was in the market in a very small way and I'll give you some of that in a second.  

Just to be broader, you know, the whole issue has been really right to market and availability caused by a new system that was put in place about 18 months, two years ago. We have agreed with the bottler to zero-base all of our assumptions on the best go to market strategy, so we're relooking at that in totality. So, one piece of changed the dynamics in the Philippines.  

The second, then, is the one that you refer to, which is the new smaller package, the 200ML. That is only just started rolling out in Manila. It's level-priced with the new competitor that came in, Royal Crown Cola the 240ML, but in the early days, we've got early limited availability, you know, it's a returnable package. We have to build up the glass float.  

So, we're, you know, we're just seeing the early signs of that but it does, [inaudible] that pack now accounts for 9% of Coke sales off take if you take year-to-date September. They're about to start rolling it out in the Southern region, that's the other important island around Cebu and that's going to be completed really, by about now, actually. And that preempts the entry of Royal Crown Cola.  

In addition, we're taking another packaging launch, which is a rollout of a 769ML bottle in metro Manila, and that's to combat an 800ML Royal Crown Cola. So, that's in the early days, but it is part of a revenue growth management approach, looking at competition, again, focused on metro Manila and then rolling out to other key markets.  

We're also revitalizing Pop Cola, the 8-ounce, with new commercials, and in particular chasing price compliance because dealer price compliance has been big issue, as well. And there are other some smaller ones, Sprite Ice and [can], we've got incremental volume. But [inaudible] the early stages now of turning around. And as you can imagine, some of you know my history in the business, it's something that I'm very focused on.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning. I'm wondering if you can address North America? Specifically, we saw some nice profit growth after two negative quarters. How much of this was driven by the marketing or cost curve accounting? Were there additional saving beyond what was put into your press release?  

How much of this was the timing of the gallon shipments and of course, adjusting for option expenses, there was still some decent growth, so what's the long-term target in profit for this market? Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Christine, it's Gary. Thanks.  

A couple of things, the gallons were slightly ahead in the quarter for North America, as well. So, that is part of the profit growth.  

Additionally, North America marketing, while they had actually a large percentage of relative to the rest of the world of the 400 million of the incremental marketing, it is a function to some extent of how you're cycling marketing year-on-year and North America, in particular, is one of the ones I was talking about, with fourth quarter growth rates, et cetera, on marketing, as well.  

But North America's stock option expense did, that was part of that kind of $0.005 that I mentioned previously and they've done a good job of holding their costs, actually, this year. Their other operating costs, as well.  

So, I would say and it's also, to a large extent, brand mix and they had a very good quarter overall. So, I would just say, North America, very solid quarter in all aspects. Their, you know, longer term goals that we have for North America are operating income in the 3 to 5% range.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: This whole issue of mix, if I can just come in, is important. We've seen positive variances on mix coming out of the likes of Full Throttle and the likes of POWERade, in particular. And I think we'll see that continuing as we go forward.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Yes, good morning. You've touched upon your new non-carb model for Mexico. I think you've one in Chile, also, but Brazil is a far more developed modern trade market. Can you touch on non-carb outlook for Brazil and the prospects of a new non-carb model in Brazil?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I mean we're in the earlier stages in Brazil, but, of course, we have made the acquisition of the juice business there, it's the number two, although the juice process is relatively undeveloped in Brazil. And that really is the beginning of what we're going to do to build [inaudible] out in Brazil.  

But we're looking at that acquisition as core basis for expanding in NCBs and if you talk about how we're going to go right to market, looking at the Mexican model as well and in discussions with regard to that. I think that's sort of part of my broader comment about expanding that and that being an important piece of enabling us to have a better go to market opportunity. That's really important.  

But we've now started the juice piece and I haven't reviewed the plans for '06 yet. I would anticipate that as Brazil comes in, we'll see a real buildup in non-carbs in Brazil.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Good morning. I was wondering about the sustainability of the Japan growth. You had a great quarter with about 4% volume growth lapping, I believe 8% from last year. Do you see the new products that you've introduced this year as having a fairly long life cycle or will you have to introduce many more new products next year?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: First of all, Robert, they'll continue to introduce many new products next year because that's just the nature of Japan, and an awful lot of them have been and always will be toward lifestyle, I think sort of 3% of our volume every year comes from new launches. And that's sort of the nature of that business.  

If we go to the specifics of your question with regard to the launches that we have made recently, Hajime, in particular, the green tea, we actually think is something that is, you know, a one-hit-wonder, has got legs and that is part of the growth that you've seen and really exemplifies where we're trying to go. Trying to go, you know, fewer, bigger hits, because, frankly, the number of launches and the quick cycling are all very well, but we would rather try and focus on a few new successful launches that have got legs.  

The other one that we believe has got significant legs and which has been very successful in the quarter is Aquarius Active Diet and that's 21% of our unit case volume. If you go back historically, of course, Sokenbicha, when we launched that was again, very sustainable. There's been somewhat of a cannibalization of Sokenbicha by Hajime. We anticipated that, but we're also working on turning that around.  

So, I, you know, I think we're going to get good, steady growth out of Japan. I think we're seeing also some, what will be some economic tailwind in Japan.  

I think whilst I don't see major changes taking place in terms of consumer spending, I think that that's [going] to will pick up to some degree. I think the recent elections have indicated that Japan is on the move and I think we'll get some benefit from that, as well.  

But one point I did want to make, I missed on Ts. If you take out you [inaudible] Sokenbicha, [inaudible] by the way I talk about cannibalization, I mean, we've grown share overall so that's also very important.  

But our model does require Japan to grow 4%. We believe that we can, does not, I'm sorry, is not requiring Japan to grow at 4%, we're looking at a modest growth rate down 2 to 3% range and I think that we'll be able to continue to do that but with bigger hits like Hajime and like Aquarius Active Diet.  

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from the line of Corey Horsch with CSFB.  

COREY HORSCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, everybody. I just had a quick question.  

A few months into your kind of revamped or restructured management organization in terms of regional responsibility, just curious to hear an update as to whether the changes have met your expectations as far as executing on a manifesto for growth, what still needs to be done, where you think, you know, further work is needed to get the management organization how you need it going forward. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay, well, you heard Dominique earlier. She's still ready for any questions and didn't get any. But she focused very clear on the fact that the reorganization has allowed a very clear laser like focus on the European Union.  

And the fact that to some degree, some of the issues that she highlighted were in fact varied to some degree on to the success of the likes of Turkey and Ukraine and Russia so that clearly is, we believe, the right focus, the right way forward. I think exactly the same is happening with the Pacific Rim, [inaudible] [Patrick], where again, the issues like the Philippines and also India somewhat varied under the likes of China.  

So again, getting a focus on key areas plus, by the way, stimulating some other important markets like Indonesia and Korea, where we've actually got joint plans agreed with Coca-Cola Amatil to regenerate those markets. So the plans are also aligned to the bottlers, as well, and the rest of the world, of course, remains unchanged.  

We talk about the management team overall. I point out that actually 50% of the management team are either, since I took over in June 1 last year, are either new or, in fact, reassigned or promoted. So, there's been a major change that's taken place there. And I see that as pretty stable going forward.  

The other one is alignment with our bottlers, which I believe is something which has been enhanced over the last 12 months and it's enhanced by the manifest. The big thing about the manifesto is the fact that we have a clear and evident path to growth going forward.  

Underneath it, and you haven't seen this, and you'll see a little bit more of this in December, underneath this immense body of work, and you hear some of it when we talk about supply chain, you hear some of it we talk about, when Mary talks about the architecture that we have around strategic paths, the, addressing the specific [date], you can see some of it coming about with the launches that we have in Mexico, the acceleration of what we're doing in innovation and marking and what we have in the pipeline.  

[That goes] with the sharing that of best practices across all the groups, and frankly, I'm ahead of where I thought I would be in terms of the ability for the overall management team to work together. In terms of sharing best those are not working in silos, but really working with a totally new culture. I think we're well ahead of where I expected to be with that.  

So we've got some quick wins, you see them coming through in the quarter. They're on those quick wins are underpinned by a very deliberate, very detailed plan which is rolling out successfully, not just within the Company, but the bottlers as a whole.  

So, let me thank you for participating and also thank Dominique and Gary.  

As I say, we've got a solid quarter in the books. Now we're in this, you know, first stages of reviewing 2006, as I just said, we've got a full calendar of innovations and strong, smart marketing support for our brands going forward.  

For the remainder of the year, we planned an analyst meeting for early December. We will take you through a more detailed review.  

Some of those more detailed questions [were] around the manifesto, as well, when we meet in December and some focus on some key initiatives as we look forward into 2006. So, I look forward to speaking to you then.  

Thanks for being with us today and have a good day. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Coca-Cola Company's third quarter and year-to-date 2005 conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051103e1ak000e0
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,444 words
   PD
21 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company's second quarter and year-to-date 2005 conference call. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have questions. I would now like to introduce Ann Taylor, Director of Investor Relations. Ms. Taylor, you may begin your conference.  

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, DIRECTOR, IR, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for joining us. I am pleased to be joined today by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer; Pancho Reyes, the Head of our Latin American Operating Group; and Alex Cummings, the Head of our Africa Operating Group. Following our prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions. So that we can get to as many questions as possible we request a limit to one question per turn.  

Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent Form 10(K). In addition I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our company website at Coca-Cola.com in the investors section which reconcile our results as posted under generally accepted accounting principals to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time financial performance. Please look on our website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning everyone. I'm sure you have all had a chance to review the release that we issued this morning and I'm not going to spend too much time on those details. Obviously you can Q&A later on any details you want to probe on. Also similar to last quarter I am going to make a few brief remarks on where we stand and then we are going to repeat the exercise which I know you gave us positive feedback on in terms of a deeper look at some areas of the business. So then Pancho and Alex are going to provide you with some insights on Latin America and on Africa and, of course, Gary is going to follow with some additional insights on the quarter before we move to questions. So I am pleased this morning to report to you that we are making progress towards the objectives that we set and which we've shared with you in the past, improving execution through the first half of the year assisted by some good weather in June drove the results.  

I want to be clear. One quarter does not guarantee sustainable results. We still have considerable work ahead of us in the U.S. in and in markets like Germany, the Philippines, and in particular India, where we experienced weaker than expected results in the quarter. We are addressing the issue in India by providing better oversight on refocus to the business through our reorganization there to separate and concentrate on the bottling operations. We've also brought in experienced bottling management to provide best in class bottling expertise to drive the execution in the marketplace. However, India along with these other markets are going to take time to get back to stainable growth.  

In terms of marketing and innovation we have seen some tangible results of improvement. The fact of the matter is that many of our key brand metrics are not where we want them to be and that as I've said in the past takes time to change. With that said, though, our results did continue to reflect benefits from the geographic effect of our operations which helped to balance our overall results. We've had upside in markets which are executing very well. Markets like Latin America and Africa which we are going to talk about a bit more in a minute. China delivered another outstanding quarter with volume growth of 22%. In addition other markets such as Chile, Turkey, Russia, central Europe and other parts of Asia, also produced strong results. In fact if you look at a fairly simple metric of volume growth and you take the markets with caps with less than 150, in those markets in aggregate we grew 12% in the quarter.  

Our share position around the world continues to stabilize and we are starting to see improving trends in most of our key categories from the prior year. If you take total non alcoholic ready to drink for the quarter we gained value share or improved our trends in 15 of our top 16 markets. We gained volume share or improved our trends in 14 our top 16 markets. If you take carbonated soft drinks specifically we either gained value at volume share or improved our trends in 10 of our top 16 markets.  

Also want to just talk about the manifesto for growth because this is the platform off which we are rebuilding the business and I'm very pleased to report that we've now rolled this out to every single employee around the world through a whole series of collaborative meetings which for the first time ever has engaged the total organization in this strategic type of platform. Now I've attended many meetings through this process. And the reports that I've received back is that the overall impact on the morale of the organization has literally been very good. I've been very positively surprised at the reception of the people overall. So what we are doing now is we are now in the process of rolling this out with our bottlers. We've already had meetings with the leadership of the top five bottlers. We've rolled it out. I've been involved in rolling it out in Europe and the U.S. It's been rolled out in Africa and in fact just last week I was down in Latin America rolling it out with Pancho to the Latin American bottlers.  

If we look at our key business imperatives there's no question that we are slowly starting to see some positive trends against the imperatives that are contained in that manifesto. Let me give you a couple of specifics. In supporting trademark Coke and core brands global trademark Coke, Sprite and Fanta, volume grew 3, 5, and 7% respectively in the quarter and in fact that is the fastest growth rate for Coke in the past five years. The stepped up media which is starting to click in, together with strong campaigns like "Toma lo bueno", which is the Latin American campaign but actually, which we are now adapting for the growing Hispanic population in the U.S., are helping to improve our trends in key brand health scores. We also have some increased innovation coming and it's beginning to take hold, but we do need to ensure that the base is very firmly established, more firmly established than it is now, to ensure that we are creating sustainable results.  

If we look at expanding our diet and light portfolio, one of our imperatives, on a worldwide basis we grew diet CSD volumes over 7% in the quarter and that's 5% year-to-date. If you take out international operations, diet and light CSD volumes grow by 11%. So that increased our overall mix of diet CSDs within the total CSD mix by 60 basis points from the prior year and that's a key measure that we use to assess how we are doing in achieving that specific goal. The Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda and Coke Zero here in the U.S. are both off to a solid start. And the ZED campaign, seeing as we're sitting this side of the pond, the ZED campaign in the UK which I've highlighted in the past has helped drive low calorie CSDs in that market by 15% in the quarter.  

We're also profitably expanding our beverage and packaged portfolio. In the quarter we reported total non-carbonated beverage volume growth of 14% with 19% growth internationally, and if you take water out of that our remaining non-carbs grew by 11% with 18% growth internationally. And driving that growth are key brands like Powerade, Aquarius sports drinks, Minute Maid and Nestea. If you take Powerade and Aquarius alone we've either launched or we grew the brand double-digit in over 40 countries this quarter, so real traction coming in here.  

Beyond the volume results I want to touch on one event that took place this quarter that I believe demonstrates the true power that we still have to unlock in this business. In May we brought all of our top marketing managers, marketing people, some 200 people from around the world to Buenos Aires to collaborate and to share ideas. As part of that process they were exposed to a range of innovative products and packages and equipment which largely exists around the system by what was essentially you'd call a trade show, trade show style format, and that's the first time that we've done anything of this nature. Our goal was very clear. We said it to each marketing manager. They were given the express goal to come back with at least three significant new ideas to incorporate into the business plan for 2006. Some like Brazil actually came back with about eight. And I've talked about this before but I just want to re-emphasize. This is where the power of our global business is really hard to match. Leveraging the proven, what we have out there, the proven wins around the system in the 200 countries where we serve consumers. Frankly, in the past we did not have the processes in place to capture it and while we still have many opportunities to improve this was a very good step in the right direction and it does fit in with what Mary told you when she talked to you last quarter.  

This process also highlights the long-term nature of building sustainability. Many of the shared ideas are being developed now in the marketplace ready for next year. This is why there is fundamentally no change in my point of view that 2005 is still a transition year. Yes, we've had some positive volume results in the quarter. We are still focused on building the base for the long-term. But sustainable growth is something that I believe we will accomplish but which we still have to build the base for in 2005.  

Two groups are certainly well on their way to building sustainable growth and those are Latin America and Africa. Given that positive feedback I mentioned earlier about, at least focuses on specific geographic areas. We wanted to highlight them on this particular call. So I've asked Pancho Reyes and Alex Cummings to share with you what they are doing in their respective groups. So at this juncture I would like to turn the call over to Pancho. Pancho.  

PANCHO REYES, COO, LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville. I would like to spend much of our time this morning putting Latin America into context. I would like to talk about our strategies rather than focus heavily on results for the quarter. I'm sure you've read that we had a very solid quarter, actually a very solid first half of the year. When you look at Latin America, always look at the homogeneous market but it's actually quite complex, quite diverse, quite dynamic and very importantly it's a market that provides tremendous opportunities for our system. Last year we sold over 4.5 billion unit cases; about 25% of our company's volume. Given the stage of economic development in the region revenue and profit contribution are closer to 10 and 16% respectively.  

We do manage a portfolio of countries of all shapes and sizes. The first and most important is Mexico. If you think about it in terms of a pyramid Mexico is our base. It represents close to half of our volume and an even larger percentage of our profits. It has one of the strongest CSD businesses in our system with per capita consumption of more than 500; 517 to be precise of company products. Following Mexico in that pyramid is a huge opportunity, a huge opportunity, the huge opportunity of Brazil which has a population that is roughly twice the size of Mexico and per capita consumption about one-third of Mexico at 142. Brazil is a turnaround opportunity. One we've talked about in the past and one we are acting upon. We see no reason why, no reason why Brazil should not develop into a market as strong as Mexico is today. The remaining 38 countries within the group are at different phases of economic development.  

You find countries like Chile, with relatively high GDP per capita and greater economic stability and a CSD per capita of 350. You also find emerging and volatile markets like Venezuela or small Caribbean Islands like Martinique. All of these countries tend to balance each other with a long-term trend towards growth.  

Looking at categories in Latin America you find three leading categories. Water being the largest. Talking about volume. But represents about 40% of the total non alcoholic ready to drink segment in Latin America. It has relatively low volume given that 75% is all water and you know that that part of the business is not much value-added. You also know that because of that we have largely chosen not to compete in that segment in the whole water segment. The second category is CSDs which is about 35% of non alcoholic ready to drink and the third one is milk which also tends to be low in value, represented about 22% of that same industry.  

Other categories that are quite popular in other places like the U.S. such as sports drinks and tea are really just emerging across Latin America. So because of that our volume make-up is very CSD centric. We built on this Heritage in Latin America. Last year, in '04, CSD volumes represented approximately 90% of our total Latin America volume. Most of it actually is regular CSDs, diet and light represents only about 6% of our volume and that compares to a country like North America where it's over 30%. In terms of channel we find just about every channel in the universe from mom and pops to ultramodern convenience stores and hybrid markets. As most of you know traditional mom and pops which is the high-value added channel it's very important for our business. It represents close to 58% of our group volume. Sharewise, close to 60% share in CSDs, certainly one of the highest of any of our operating groups, but the opportunity is still very, very high since in the total non alcoholic ready to drink segment share is closer to 23%. In some of the emerging categories that I mentioned it is below 10%.  

So with this background it is clear that the key business imperatives outlined in the manifesto for growth are very, very relevant to what we are doing in Latin America. We are leveraging the power of our trademark Coca-Cola through our Pan Latin America campaign, (INAUDIBLE) that has been hugely successful and actually won several awards. Now I do realize that our words do not drive volume, they are reflective of our ability to create marketing that reaches consumers. In this case trademark Coca-Cola unit case volume in Latin America grew 8% for the quarter. Clearly supported by this campaign.  

We are also driving other core CSD brands like Sprite and Fanta which are up 6 and 13% respectively for the quarter. We're accelerating diets and lights in line with the manifesto beyond the 6% that they do represent in our portfolio today, mainly with Coca-Cola Light and Sprite Zero. And although very small we are already expanding our beverage and package portfolios in emerging categories across all of our countries in Latin America with Powerade, Nestea and Burn, Burn is our energy drink, which helped drive second quarter not carb volume growth of about 20%. Also in line with the manifesto we are stepping up our commitment to immediate consumption, 53,000 coolers have already been placed this year throughout Latin America. And then, finally, we are making commitments in customer development in markets like Mexico where we have created a noncarb system sales organization jointly with our bottlers.  

What I would like to do now is share with you details on Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina to provide an update on progress and thoughts about the future. I understand that each of these data points and examples are unlikely to be individually significant but what I hope you see is that each represents the many small steps we are making to drive a significant impact to the business.  

So let me start with Mexico. You may recall last year we ran into some strong competition. As a result of that the full year last year we saw flat volume. To address that situation beginning in the second half of last year we refocused our business to leverage our strength and most importantly our brand equities. I'm pleased to report that we are certainly making progress as evidenced by the growth this year in this quarter with volume growth of 8% driven by 6% CSD growth and double-digit growth in packaged water, the profitable side of the segment, and non-carbonated beverages.  

The first thing we set out to do is increase personal consumption choices under and integrated on the goal program to drive teen recruitment. This has been supplemented by expanded single serve packaging and increased cooler placement. Since the beginning of '04 we have close to 40 new packages and volume through packages less than 1.5 liter has grown by 6% in the quarter. Further, the system has already placed 37,000 coolers year-to-date with the single objective to drive availability in our brand.  

Secondly we focus on driving brand value with meals at home which is a key consumer occasion, it represents around 57% of category points. Here the focus has been on moms with a promotion future in dishes and cutlery that has helped to drive volume in multi-serve home packages by 6% in the quarter. Supporting both these initiatives, Dom Alagueno (ph) campaign, we just mentioned that, it has increased favorite brands for some young teens by 3 points to reach 55%, leading to overall trademark Coca-Cola growth of 6%.  

Final approach on Mexico, lead new beverage trends including the consolidating support of our current portfolio brands and expanding into juices under the Minute Maid trademark. We have seen success with Powerade and Nestea. Volumes are up 53 and 40% respectively for the quarter, we've also launched a flavored water under the seal name, it's early but it's doing very, very well, flavored water also a profitable side of the water segment. And we've established a dedicated sales and distribution team focusing specifically on non-carb opportunities. This new organization which will be operational in August is supported by all of our bottlers with the single goal of providing the focus, the scale needed on growing these emerging categories.  

Brazil. Brazil, a country where hard work and a good plan have reaped rewards. Many of you know, we talked about this, we took several hard steps in '03 to right the ship. First thing we did, we took back control of the point-of-sale by our bottling system which in too many instances had been given to distributors to manage. Secondly, very importantly, we significantly increased package and channel diversification to reduce our dependence on two liters. As a result of that our non two liter packages have grown 20% since the end of '02 which is when we actually started with this process. Further, we are continuing the expansion of our available packaging which is critically important in an emerging market like Brazil where socioeconomic factors and local B-brand competition affect pricing as you all well know. We grew returnables 26% in the quarter and will continue to place emphasis here. Then finally we stepped up our market investment and we are certainly continuing adding to this year as well.  

The result of all these changes we are now in our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit volume grains alone with, and very importantly enhanced value for the entire system. In this quarter alone we grew volumes 17% lapping 7% growth in the prior year and we've increased our shares of CSDs by 2.5 points year-to-date. Trademark Coca-Cola grew 16%, Flavor CSDs grew 21%, noncarbs we focus our priority on key revenue generating segments where brands like Nestea, Snapple, which is a juice drink, and Burn, the energy drink that I talked about, are all growing 20% plus.  

Finally I would like to touch briefly on Argentina. Argentina in many ways is similar to Brazil. A market where a long-term perspective has produced solid results for the entire system. You may recall that during the economic crisis in '02 we made the decision to stay invested in the marketplace and tried to become even more relevant to the consumer. We changed our approach in terms of pricing, in terms of packaging. Went heavily back into returnable packaging and substantially increased our capabilities in revenue growth management to deliver as much value as possible. As a result of that we've grown volume double digits in '03 and '04 and grown our share in the total non alcoholic ready to drink market from 21.5 in '01 to 24.1 at the end of '04. As we move back to a more normalized growth in the mid single digits we are leveraging our momentum and expertise in revenue and growth management to drive personal consumption and accelerate growth in our noncarb business.  

Year to date we are seeing positive results. We have achieved good, balanced growth across CSD especially in our core brands. Just to give that a point. Immediate consumption, the highest revenue system strength, grew more than 12% in the second quarter. That's Latin America in a nutshell.  

Now I would love to promise 9% growth in volume and 20% growth in operating income on a long-term basis but I believe that may be a little aggressive. As it usually happens when you are doing the right thing you often get lucky with things like the weather and stable economies which has helped our results this year. However, I am very, very confident based on the great work that our system is doing, that we can meet our fair share of volume and profit growth for the Company. Let me now turn this over to Alex.  

ALEX CUMMINGS, PRESIDENT & COO, AFRICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Pancho. Pancho is a tough act to follow. But it's good to be with all of you this morning. I would like to briefly touch on our business in Africa. With a population over 2.5 times that of North America, with volumes and revenue contribution about one-fifth and one-sixth the size respectively Africa is a medium to long-term opportunity for the Coca-Cola Company. There is significant opportunity to increase carbonated soft drink consumption in Africa. To that end our focus in Africa is on driving profitable unit case volume growth. Distribution expansion, the creation of new cold outlets, the improvement in market execution, effective and increased marketing, and keeping our products affordable remain at the forefront of our strategy to drive consumption of our core brands led by brand Coca-Cola.  

This is why when you look at the elements of the manifesto for growth you shall see six imperatives and three key enablers are essential for our business in Africa. In addition to the imperatives we are also implementing a strategy to broaden our geographic focus. Although we have presence in every country on the continent we are somewhat dependent on South Africa for our results in the region. We will certainly continue to focus on South Africa. However, in addition to Nigeria, the most populous country on the continent, we have identified nine other countries to step up and increase resources against. These are countries characterized by relatively stable economies and moderate per capita incomes. Morocco, Ghana, and Uganda are just a few examples of these markets.  

To provide the appropriate focus on the fundamentals I mentioned at the start we reorganized our operations late last year from four -- from two to four divisions. Two divisions focus on two key markets of South Africa and Nigeria, and two multi-country divisions, North and West Africa division, and East and Central Africa division. Although early, that focus appears to be paying off. Volume growth in South Africa and Nigeria are up 7% and 12% respectively in the quarter. In addition, volume growth in the remaining nine countries grew 18% this quarter and 12% year-to-date. I could give you numerous examples of how that focus is driving results but I think these numbers speak for themselves.  

In the short to medium term we will continue to be focused on carbonated soft drinks in Africa. However, in addition to driving carbonated soft drink growth we are also selectively expanding our product portfolio focusing on water, juice, and juice drinks. To that end our total non-carbonated beverage volume growth year-to-date has been 32%. We have much work -- much work to do in Africa. I believe that we have just begun to tap into Africa's opportunities and I am very confident that we are well-positioned to grow our business and deliver our share of the Company's long-term targets. Thanks and I will hand you over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, EVP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Alex, and morning, everyone. I would like to spend just a few minutes covering a few items before we get to your questions. As you saw in the release we reported EPS of $0.72 in the quarter. That number includes a benefit of about $0.04 for the following items. About a $0.01 related to a gain that we had on a settlement on the high fructose corn syrup, another $0.01 related to a favorable resolution of a tax matter during the quarter. In addition because of a change in the tax law related to the repatriation of foreign earnings, we reduced our tax provision estimate for the, that from the first quarter which also benefited us by about a $0.01 this quarter. We have not changed the amount that's being repatriated, the 2.5 billion that we announced last quarter. This is just a change in the tax law itself and just reflects a change in the estimated tax provision. And finally we benefited from some one time gains at the equity income line, flowing in from (INAUDIBLE) and that was another $0.01. Therefore, our EPS after considering those items was about $0.68 per share.  

I want to discuss a few additional items that are worth mentioning as they relate to the balance of the year. We estimate that we benefited by about a $0.01 per share related to the timing of gallons in Japan. We would expect that benefit to reverse in the second half of 2005. In addition we also estimate that we benefited by another $0.01 per share from the timing of some corporate expenses that we expect to incur but they are going to move into the back half of the year.  

Now let me move to currencies. We saw a benefit from currency of about 3% at the revenue line and 4% at the operating income line for the quarter and 4% at operating income year-to-date. Given the currency benefits we've locked into date and our outlook for the remainder of the year we are reviewing a series of projects to determine whether to reinvest any of this currency gain back into the back half of the year. If we determine that we should move forward on any of those projects that will have an impact on the results in the second half of this year. In terms of our outlook for the remainder of the year on currency as most of you know we actively hedge our key currencies. Currently we are covered in the third quarter at rates above the prior year. For the fourth quarter we are substantially covered but at rates below last year. Therefore as we look at the second half given current rates in our currency positions we expect a slight positive benefit. However, we expect that benefit to come entirely in the third quarter and then somewhat offset by negative currency impact in the fourth quarter.  

Further as we look into 2006 we have minimal coverage in place and we expect negative currency impact through most of next year, again, due to the relatively high exchange rates we've benefited from most of 2005. Our reported effective tax rate in the quarter was 22.2%, which was impacted by those items that I mentioned earlier. Our underlying effective rate was 24% in the quarter which we currently estimate is the rate for the full year. As you saw from the release we repurchased over $1 billion of our shares in the quarter, effectively catching us up from the first quarter. And for the full year we still expect to repurchase at least 2 billion of the Company's stock.  

Finally as we announced last quarter we will be repatriating 2.5 billion under the American Jobs Creation Act that will be used for qualifying purposes. The maximum amount that we can repatriate under the Act is 6.1 billion and we will continue to evaluate during the course of the year whether or not to repatriate the remaining 3.6 billion. The last thing I want to remind you is that as Neville noted we still look at 2005 as a transition year and the year to put the foundation in place. Therefore, as you think about the remainder of this year I would encourage you to keep the current quarter's results in perspective. That's it for the topics I wanted to cover and now let's turn it over, operator, please, to the questions.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Bill Pecoriello, Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question is what specific metrics are you using to get comfortable when eventually meeting and sustaining that 6 to 8% long-term operating profit goal you laid out given there's factors such as weather that you mentioned and also the benefits of the stepped up market spending benefiting the top line this year? And as you look out into '06 and you are launching new products, trying to improve the brand health metrics to levels that you find acceptable and also continuing the support on the core brands as well as the products that were launched in '05 that you want to continue to support, so just trying to get a feeling of what you are looking at on these metrics?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Bill, there's a whole range of metrics. I've given you some of those volume share, value share and as I have emphasized in the past, it's a mix of those two keeping the pendulum somewhere in the middle in terms of that. I have given you some, talked about brand health indicators, that's a fundamental driver. I think it's one of the drivers of the Latin America growth in terms of the success of that campaign. So that linkage is something that's there. So brand health is fundamentally important.  

Then we are also looking as I mentioned at the proportion of lights that we have within the overall category particularly in our developed markets and that 60 basis points improvement that I noted in my earlier remarks is indicative of that. And then there's a whole range of metrics which are in the whole manifesto for growth. Because everything that we have in the manifesto is something that's measurable. So let me go down to another specific. We are going to be monitoring, for example, the number of ideas out of the Buenos Aires meeting that we had, the trade show. There is a charge to each person to transfer these ideas. Those are examples. But you will see within the manifesto one of the 14 work streams is actually metrics and there are a lot of detailed metrics below this level which are fundamental to running the business effectively and efficiently. In other words, there are some large words that we use about what we are trying to do but each one of those has got a whole series of measures, some of which I've given you to ensure that we are delivering against them. And they are not just high level statements.  

OPERATOR: Your next question is from John Faucher of JP Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Yes, I was wondering if you could follow up on some of the promotional efforts you have put in place in North America, particularly the couponing, if you can talk about, A., where the funding is coming from the couponing, for the couponing, excuse me, and then also are you pleased with the results? If you look at your CSD results down 1% for the quarter, is this where you thought they would be and does this mean that your promotional efforts in terms of the extra couponing paid off?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, first of all, it was the source of the funding. You recall, Don Knauss had said to you that we had looked at the whole promotional budget, the sort of promotions that we've done nationally year on year on year. And with the consolidation of the trade and also the sophistication of the trade they are basically saying that they want differentiating promotions for their individual chains. So these promotions were becoming less and less effective. And that money therefore was redirected this year towards couponing. Let me just be very clear about that. The 400 million that we are talking about had nothing to do with the coupon. That's, that is media money. Some of it was in innovation, it's exactly as I defined it before. This is a reallocation within existing budgets, actually from promotions to couponing which we believe is giving us more traction than the promotional efforts. And therefore you see that in the results and you can see that in the share.  

If you look at value overall you really need to look at the fact that we have actually grown value in the category overall. So this is not about an effort to really fundamentally change the overall pricing mix. We are again and I will bore you with this stopping the pendulum in the middle analogy over the years ahead. I've probably bored you enough already. But it's this very, very good balance between the two and we believe couponing falls within that. When you then look at the comparative -- remember we are cycling C2, a very major effort in terms of launching C2 last year and that was in the second quarter. So it's in the base there and therefore I think that it has been an effective mechanism.  

We will just keep monitoring it because nothing is forever and we will keep seeing whether or not that gives us better returns at doing promotions. But clearly we all know building home inventory is extremely important. That was part of doing it for the holidays. And also it helped promote our innovation, our launch of Coke Zero, our launches of diet Coke with Splenda, et cetera.  

OPERATOR: The next question is from Bonnie Herzog of Smith Barney.  

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: I actually have a follow on question to John. Just broadly speaking in terms of your increased marketing spending that will be primarily spent now during the second half of the year, I am very curious in you could give us a better idea of how and where you will spend this money other than of course what you just discussed in terms of the couponing. For instance, is there a way that you can break it down in terms of the buckets of the 350 to 400 million between print ads, TV, Internet, advertising, et cetera? I mean, is there a bigger focus on one area versus another? Also should we assume that the higher marketing spending amount includes all of the costs associated with all of your new products and package launches? And then finally I would love to hear an update on where you are with your iconic brand advertising behind your core brand Coke. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay, Bonnie, about three questions but let me try and take them. First of all I just want to clarify again, as I talk about the 400 million, the couponing has got nothing to do with the 400 million U.S. I just want to reiterate that. I thought there might have been some confusion on that. In terms of the 400, it does encompass all of the launches that we are doing around the world. That's all part of that; that 400. It's primarily aimed at carbonated soft drinks, though, because that is, if you go back to the exercise that we did, that is where the media money had been taken out in the past and we are rebalancing that to get the base re-established going forward. I did say that in terms of one break out I gave was about 125 million of that was going to be in the U.S. I have given that to you before. And the balance of that is for the rest of the world.  

I mean buckets of, buckets of spending in terms of Internet, et cetera, I frankly don't have the number with me. I think the issue here is that we will be using all media that are relevant in our market because it's difficult to answer that question where in some markets television still -- the thirty-second spot is still the most effective way, in fact it's still the most effective way in the U.S. but you will see us obviously with some Internet advertising as we start probing into that area. Diet Coke is something that we are, I've talked before about our portals in Spain, et cetera, and the successes there. All of that is going to be part of the overall mix. But I just don't have the split on that.  

I want to also emphasize that, and I did this when I made the announcement, we have a regular review with regard to that spending that it is going against media. Aside from, I know the number I gave you, 33 million that was going into innovation and some people spend but the rest is against media globally. So then the iconic advertising. We are -- really got two pieces of work that we are working with in parallel. We have a process on developing single iconic spots that are designed to supplement some of the very good local work. And you've heard Pancho talk about the campaign in Latin America so there's good local work underway. You also will note that some of the new ads in the United States have scored extremely well. We are talking about the Coke with lime, Coke it up ad, we are getting very, very good scores on the new chilled top around Coke Zero. So it isn't just the iconic ads that drive brand Coke, it's what we are doing holistically behind brand Coke.  

And then I mentioned two streams. We've also asked a second group of agency partners to work on some larger ideas that may possibly form the basis of an integrated global campaign in the future because the amount that we spend behind Coke we want to be absolutely sure we have got the creative right, but the iconic is the tip of the iceberg, what is below it are a number of local campaigns behind Coca-Cola as well and that really has to be looked at in its entirety, to say referencing Latin America in particular.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Swartzberg of Legg Mason.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, LEGG MASON: Neville, a two-part question for you on this priority you laid out about a year ago on getting a better return on your bottler investment and obviously that's kind of an area of top priority. But part one, can you give us a bit of a report card there. Part two at least here in North America we've seen CCE sign this Rock Star deal and this smaller Bravo deal, so could you give us a sense about how if at all Coke's thinking is changing in terms of bottlers themselves expanding in essence the system's product offerings?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, first of all, I would like to give you a number which probably would answer the first part of the question pretty well and that's year-to-date equity income has grown 21% and that then defines really what's happening with regard to overall bottling health. That excludes unusual items. As we've rolled-out the manifesto we've been having really detailed discussions with our bottlers around how they perceive the system and system health. And I have spent considerable amount of time even with, actually with Boards of Directors as well of a number of our large bottlers but also with a whole range of bottlers around the world, and in fact I will be leaving next week to go and meet all the Asian bottlers as well as the final piece of the manifesto roll-out. And I would characterize that dialogue as extremely productive because they are not focusing now to any major degree on issues around the health of the system. They feel that the system is much healthier. And this goes back to work started in '99. In fact I was on the other side of the bottling side when we started doing that. So I think the major rebalancing is over and I said this on the last call, last quarter. And that we have got by and large in the aggregate good healthy bottlers now around the world.  

Rock Star and Bravo, two different situations, really, Rock Star, we were very much a part of doing that. We have got Full Throttle which by the way is extremely successful. It has been a major profit contributor to North America for the quarter. And Rock Star was the recognition that in that category choice is very important. And having other brands out there. So we are part of that deal. And we now from almost nothing are number two in the category. We've run about 20% share. So that fits into normal collaborative working that we have.  

Bravo, out of staters really speak for themselves. CT is talking about initial discussions. We were obviously clearly aware of what was going on. We had looked at -- we had looked at whether or not we would get involved in the agreement that they have struck. We are quite happy for them to have done what they've done and -- but as I've said it's very preliminary and we will see what comes out of that and it's also very small. The broader question that you asked is how does that actually, these things affect our policy with regard to the bottlers and really there's no fundamental change. It remains exactly as I've outlined it in the past.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Christine Farkas of Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, Neville. In the first quarter -- on the first quarter conference call you indicated some executional challenges in northwest Europe and this quarter your press release indicates that volumes were favorable. Can you just speak to the trends, what you are seeing in the retail there and also speak to, given your focus on diet, if the diet soft drinks contributed in the quarter and what the growth looks like. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Diets did contribute. I will give you some numbers on that. The reason that we are relatively silent about northwest Europe is that northwest Europe is largely CCE territory and they have not announced their results yet. So I have to be very careful in those comments. So I really don't want to focus on that to too great a degree.  

But there has been good growth with regard to lites, I can say that. But overall the category has been relatively soft. We've had some good weather late in the quarter. You will have seen that in the press. And we expect the trends that we talked about to continue for a period of time. And I think that is all that I can really legitimately say given the situation with regard to CCE. But one other thing I could add, we launched Minute Maid in the U.K. You know about that. We are focusing on Nestea and the sort of programs that we talked about are Latin America, U.S. in terms of reinvigorating CSDs are rolling out in northwest Europe but I think that's all I can say at this juncture.  

OPERATOR: The next question is from Carlos Laboy of Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, Neville. I was hoping that you could expand on what's wrong in India, is it price, is it brand house, is it distribution issues, if you could expand on the competitive landscape? And what are your top priorities in India? On a related basis you mentioned the water issue last year in India. What measures are you taking in India and on a global basis to associate the Company with being a custodian of water quality?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, let me start with India at large, we are talking about a 14% decline in the quarter and it is with CSDs generally. So it's not actually a share issue. Clearly the pesticide issue has affected the whole atmosphere around carbonated soft drinks and we've got some rebuilding to do. Now, we have rebuilt markets under crises before. We have experience of that, there were health perception issues, not real issues which is the case in India, in Belgium a number of years ago and Belgium is a very successful market at the moment. So we clearly have a major public relations campaign behind that. It's also an industry issue but we still go through the courts as well in terms of what the labeling should be, et cetera.  

The other issue is, I guess is sticker shock at the lower end of the market in terms of price increases that we've had to take. As you know a lot of the volume was stimulated by returnables; at a low price which brought in a number of poorer consumers into the franchise and effectively we've lost those consumers with the price increase. And I believe that we can come up with new affordability strategy. That's what we are working on right now to try and re-engage those consumers. But that will take time because the price points have moved. There are executional issues in terms of the degree to which pricing has been taken by some of the retail trade. In other words, ahead of the price points that we were looking for and there is some control and discipline required in that.  

So that's, why not talk about executional issues and then come back to a broader issue which is what are we doing with regard structurally? And there the splitting of the bottling operations and the concentrate operations I think is fundamentally important. You've heard me really say this when Ariel came on board and that is that we are talking about a business system that works very well where we have a franchise or franchisee relationship and we did not have that in India. The two were consolidated. And I think the skill sets are very different and now we are applying those skill sets to the bottling side of the business and to the execution, the pricing in the marketplace being the -- one of the key issues. And we brought in experienced bottling executive from outside to lead that. So that's going to take some time to show some fruit. But I think it's the most important initiative in terms of turning around the Indian business. Also within those numbers by the way we have de-emphasized powder, that's probably about 3 points of the decline. So it's probably on CSDs it's closer to around 11.  

The question with regard to water is, again, I want to highlight that the Carol Accord has continued to rule in our favor and they have found that we are not responsible in any way for the -- because we were closed down for a year, for the continuing depletion of the aquifer. So it's entirely false. We have got a number of major initiatives in, however, in India and in other stressed water areas around the world to harvest rain water, for example. We have also got initiatives in replenishing aquifers. And we are engaged with a number of NGOs that we are talking to who feel that we have got state-of-the-art in terms of what we are doing in this particular area. We also have a major focus on water usage per se and I'm just trying to think of the statistic but certainly it's, I think our water use is down something around 6% year on year, 2004, 2003. And 2003 and 2002 was similar and I would expect 2005 to do the same. So we are focusing on our own usage even though in these water stressed areas the main issue in terms of water waste it is actually agricultural usage and irrigation.  

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Bryan Spillane of Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning. Neville, just a follow up I guess on Carlos' question. If you look at the operating margins in that East, South Asia, Pacific Rim region, they are below the corporate average and curious, in terms of your plan to boost margins there, how much of it is improving mix and price points I guess especially in the Philippines and India and how much of it is structural, meaning improving the bottling profits in the region?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I am going to let Gary take one question, seeing it's the last one. I will add something if I need to. Gary you take the margin issues.  

GARY FAYARD: Hello, Bryan, I thought I was going to get through this one without having to say anything. Actually it's a combination of a couple of things but, and the markets in that group are different and the answers are different somewhat. I think Neville has given you a pretty good answer on India. A lot there will really be around the bottling side and really improving the bottling results and I think that's where you will see it and you will see the improvement starting in India in the bottling side.  

In the Philippines obviously it's -- we've had availablity and affordability issues both. We are working on affordability rolling out 200 ml returnable glass that we think is going to help reinvigorate brand Coke and as we do that it will help the margins as well. So I think each of these markets is slightly different but the Philippines we think are starting to save a lot and we are taking the right actions there. South Korea is also in that group and Neville was there with the leadership of Coca-Cola Ameritool a couple of months ago and putting a whole plan to really reinvigorate the Korean market. So I think there are different answers but each of them we've got very good steps already in place that are already taking place that improve the margins back to where they should be.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I would just add one piece to that and particularly with regard to Korea and the Philippines. There is quite an increase in terms of spending behind the brands in those two. And just to clarify something else I recall from an earlier question in terms of the spend in the second half of the year, that is in terms of cash spend directionally correct but remember that from an accounting standpoint we charge-off our advertising on the sales curve. So you've got to divide between the cash spend and how we account for it in that particular instance.  

That being the last question I want to thank you for joining us this morning. I will say that, to wrap up, we are pleased with what we've accomplished to date. I am confident that we are doing the right things and that we are making progress. But, and I say this internally all the time we still have much work to do. We've got an awful lot still ahead of us and execution is still critical to all of this. But as we move throughout the year I look forward to staying in touch with you, keep you apprised of what we are doing, and keeping you apprised of our progress. Thanks for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes The Coca-Cola Company's second quarter and year-to-date 2005 conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050804e17l000pg
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,596 words
   PD
19 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal questions-and-answer portion of the call [Operator instructions] I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Miss Ann Taylor, Director of Investor Relations who will begin the conference. Miss Taylor, you may begin.  

ANN TAYLOR, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, and thank you for joining us.  

   TD
I am pleased to be joined today by Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mary Minnick, the current head our Asia Operations.  

Following our prepared remarks this morning, we will turn the call over for your questions. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we request a limit to one question per turn.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind that you this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in the Company's most recent Form 10-K.  

In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our Company web site at cocacola.com in the Investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussion this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our Web site for this information.  

Now, let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning.  

I hope you've had a chance to review the release we issued this morning as I won't spend too much time on the details. Similar to last quarter, I'm going to make a few brief remarks on where we stand, and then I'm going to turn the call over to Mary Minnick so that she can provide some insights on Asia and also her new role, and Gary will then follow with additional insights on the quarter before we move over to your questions.  

I'm pleased to report to you this morning that we are making progress towards the objectives that we set and those that we've shared with you in the past. Our results in the first quarter clearly reflect the benefit of our global operations as the portfolio effect of our operations helped to balance our overall results.  

We saw on the one hand upside in markets where we're executing very well. Markets like Latin America, where we grew CSDs 6% led by Brand Coke.  

Africa, 10% unit case growth, with carbonated soft drinks growing at 8% led by South Africa, who put in another great quarter, Trademark Coca-Cola growing 14%.  

China also delivered another outstanding quarter which Mary will discuss in a minute. In addition, other markets like Chile, Turkey, Russia, Central Europe, and other parts of Asia, also put in strong results.  

This upside helped to offset some unexpected weaknesses in our Northwest Europe markets, as well as markets that we've already talked about, markets in transition including North America, Germany, and the Philippines. Our share position around the world is stabilizing as we're starting to see improving trends in most of our key categories from the prior year.  

In the total non-alcoholic ready-to-drink category, we either gained value share or improved our trends in 11 of our top 16 markets and we gained volume share or improved our trends in 12 out of the top 16 markets, and if you take that down just to carbonated soft drinks, the trends are essentially the same in value, improved or gaining share in 12 of 16, and in volume improving or gaining in 11 out of 16.  

As we've discussed in the past, we've stepped up our investment in brand building and marketing and our goal of clearly re-establishing our marketing leadership around the world.  

You've heard some of these plans from Don Knauss on our last call. One example that's out there now is Coke with Lime, where we've stepped up spending that we normally allowed for a launch, featuring what has now become our famous TV spot which was voted a top ten spot in Ad Age and has seen double the industry's standards in awareness and persuasion.  

Mary will touch on what we're doing in Asia where we stepped up spending, and that is driving strong gains in our Minute Maid and Nestea brands in China, for example.  

Another area which I'm particularly proud is the reigniting of the Coke trademark. Back in November, I said this was critical to the success of our Company, and Marc Mathieu, our Global Brand, Coke Brand Manager, shared with you what we're thinking in that respect.  

We've now launched our first advertising campaign under the new brand architecture Latin America, under the tagline "Toma Lo Bueno". We're also wrapping up work on the first round of our iconic advertising and that will begin airing this summer.  

Now, don't get me wrong. We clearly understand that a couple of good ads will not change the game and we don't expect them to, but they are one tangible manifestation of our belief that emphasizing execution across the entire system, including setting objectives and reaching them consistently, will ultimately be the game changer.  

We're also making changes in our business to provide a catalyst for our marketing and innovation. We're very fortunate to be able to leverage Mary's experience and marketing and elevation in Asia for the benefit of the entire company.  

We're also realigning our geographies to give them the needed focus, and we brought two new individuals Dominique Reinich and Muhtar Kent into the Company to continue to strengthen our team and also to bring new perspectives, as they bring with them both marketing and bottler experience, they're going to be invaluable in their new positions.  

Patrick Siewerts' new expanded role will now provide markets such as India, the Philippines, and our South and West Asia division including the likes of Indonesia, a sustained focus as we develop and expand appropriate infrastructures to serve these countries.  

And finally, as you heard yesterday, we've also put behind us the twin investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice. So while we have lots of work still ahead of us, we are making progress.  

As I said at Cagney, we're really at the end of the beginning. And I'm pleased to report that we're making improvements, and we're investing in our marketing, but, you know, I've said this a number of times, rebuilding brand equity does take time, and I recognize we still have key markets that are in transition, and they're not necessarily easy fixes, but I'm very confident that what we're doing are the right things, and that we're making good progress, and that our continued emphasis on execution will bring about long-term benefit.  

So one of those markets where we're focused on execution is Asia, and Mary is here in her current capacity for the last time to talk about this complex but really dynamic part of the world. Mary.  

MARY MINNICK, HEAD OF ASIA OPERATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville.  

As you know, Asia is uniquely complex, immensely diverse, and rapidly changing, yet it also provides tremendous opportunities for our company. In 2004, we sold over 3.5 billion unit cases in Asia, about 18% of our Company's total volume.  

We produced 4.7 billion in revenue, and 1.8 billion in operating income representing 21% and 26% respectively of the Company's total. The Asia unit's 1.8 billion in operating income last year was more than the entire International Operations of our closest competitor, including their snacks division.  

Behind these strong numbers is a multifaceted business which varies from more developed markets such as Australia, with per capital consumption of more than 300 servings per year, to countries such as India where it's a seven.  

In China, we also have distinctive markets from modern metros like Beijing and Shanghai where our per caps are over 80, to the hundreds of other cities and towns where we're just starting to build a ready-to-drink culture.  

With the product portfolio ranging from teas to soy, to beauty-enhancing water, non-carbs are already a significant part of our business and an important engine for growth. In 2004 non-carbs represented 34% of Asia's total volume versus the Company's average of 17%, and non-carb growth in Asia for the year was 9%.  

Our market in Asia encompasses just about every channel in the beverage universe from mom-and-pop stores to ultramodern convenience stores and hypermarkets. In terms of share we have 50-plus share in carbonated soft drinks, and the total non-alcoholic ready-to-drink share is 12% overall, but in markets like Australia, it's over 20%, and we've made significant progress in China where we have successfully launched several new non-carb products.  

So, as we think about our future and considering our strong position in Asia, it's rapidly growing population and improving macroeconomic conditions, we continue to see enormous opportunities. Carbonated soft drinks will play a critical role as we continue to grow the category, but over the long-term, I believe our market development will resemble Japan more than some other markets.  

As Neville discussed last month, that's a key rationale for our inclusion of Japan, together with China, and some of the other developing countries in the new geographic alignment.  

To give us a better idea of our future, let me briefly review where we are today.  

Our star is China. We've delivered double digit growth over the last several years with 22% growth in 2004, on top of 16% in '03, on top of 14% in 2002.  

We have aligned bottling partners, an efficient and effective value chain, a strong marketing team, and a great track record in introducing new product successes. This country is a pocket of excellence in our system.  

Likewise, we have strong, stable, and profitable markets like Australia, Thailand, Singapore, and Hong Kong.  

Now we do have two work-in-progress countries, Japan and India. In Japan, we're in year two of a strategy to generate renewed momentum in this very important market.  

We're pleased with the progress we've made in reducing costs and aligning our bottler partners, and we are now reversing negative trends in the vending and national supermarket channels. Where we still have work to do is in the regional supermarkets zeroing in on key categories like tea and juice and rolling out fewer but bigger new product successes.  

In India, we had to implement price increases across all of our packages due to higher material and distribution costs. We are also still dealing with high taxes and skepticism around colas with certain segments of the population. Despite these challenges, we believe we have the right strategy, long-term perspective, and skills to address them.  

Finally, you've heard us talk about the Philippines over the last year. Volumes were down this quarter, but we know what the issues are: Affordability, availability, and acceptability, and we're addressing each one of them along with our bottling partner.  

In terms of acceptability, the Philippines is already one of our most developed markets with some of the highest brand scores in the world and certainly the highest in Asia. Even with that, we are making strides with the recent improvement in Coke's daily drinker level among teens of 2.5 points in a market where Coca-Cola is already at high levels.  

Additionally, Coke's ad awareness level among teens was up 1.3 percentage points in the last couple of months, helped by some great marketing and stepped-up spending.  

On affordability, we're working to launch a 200ml returnable glass bottle for Coke at 5 pesos as we try to replicate the tremendous success of China's affordability strategy.  

On availability, we're going back to basics with zero-based assumptions on the best go to market strategy for the market. We're making inroads, but the Philippines will be a continuing challenge as we move through 2004, ensuring that we have a solid foundation for future growth, which leads me to the first quarter results for Asia.  

As always, I want to remind that you first quarter, especially January and February, is a low-volume period for Asia and not necessarily indicative of overall growth trends. Further, the combination of the performance in the Philippines and India, combined with the tsunami impact pulled down the total volume for the group. Excluding these two countries, our growth would have been 7%.  

As I take you through the plans of the few key countries, I think you'll see that we're making progress. Let's start with Japan since it serves not only the base for funding future investment but also a model of development for other markets.  

As you may recall, in 2004, we set out to do four things in Japan: Grow profitably in supermarkets, keep core brands healthy, create new profit generators emphasizing vending and new products and packages, and four, reset the bottlers cost base.  

We saw some solid results coming out of these plans last year, with overall volume growth of 4%, the highest we've seen in several years. We generated over 6% growth in supermarkets driven by our success in national chains, we grew core brands and vending each by 7%.  

And finally, through the creation of the supply chain management company, we removed 140 million in costs from our system in 2004 and improved the level of service to national customers. We're continuing to pursue these same four strategies in 2005.  

First quarter growth of 2% cycling over 1.5% in the prior year wasn't a bad start but it was also a bit deceptive. January and February were slow, reflecting our emphasis on canned coffee, which is highly profitable but not a large volume contributor, as well as weak retail trends overall.  

But as trends improved in March, and as we gained share with the successful launch of the new profit generator Hajime, results turned around. We believe we have a real winner in Hajime, a new green tea product.  

In developing this product we focused on how tea growers prepare the tea. As a result, we believe we have a ready-to-drink green tea that is both refreshing and easy to drink.  

Because of solid bottler activation we launched 90 to 100% availability coverage in all key channels in one week of the launch, including supermarkets and convenience stores where it helped increase our non-sugar tea share by approximately 3 points, despite intense initiatives by competition. This is the highest volume launch ever recorded for us in Japan, and we suspect it may be a first for the industry.  

Despite a soft January and February, we grew overall volume in supermarkets by 4% for the quarter and gained six-tenths of a share point thanks to the launch of Hajime, renewal of Aquarius, and the continued expansion of the 1liter PET package launched last year.  

Our emphasis on supermarkets in 2004 was on national chains. This year we're focusing on improving our systems execution in the important growth channel of regional supermarkets.  

As I've already mentioned, our core brands which include Coke, Sokenbicha, Georgia Coffee, and our Aquarius sports drink, grew 7% last year which means we have challenging comps in 2005. In the first quarter overall results were satisfactory but results did vary by brand. We had good results in key profit categories like sports drinks and coffee with Aquarius and Georgia growing 18% and 2% respectively.  

At the same time we have challenges with Trademark Coke and Sokenbicha, where we have plans in place to address them. In terms of Trademark Coke we'll soon be cycling the successful C2 launch.  

We'll continue to provide tactical support for C2, and an emphasis on vending for this product and brand, however, marketing emphasis will shift to the Diet Coke platform this year. In addition, Brand Coke will continue to get strong support with the new campaign and a marketing, and a brand-new strongly supported marketing calendar.  

As the green tea category grows, Sokenbicha will have some cannibalization from Hajime, but we will step up our advertising to remind consumers of this unique brand, blended tea benefits, and its long, long successful heritage.  

In the vending channel, we're focused on three things: High volume location acquisition, vending exclusive marketing, and advanced vending machine placement. Our continuing efforts in these areas, which are very profitable and high margin, for producing positive results with vending sales up 3% in the first quarter.  

The final area where we're making great progress in Japan is resetting the bottlers cost base. 2004 marked the first full year of implementation of the new supply chain management company which is providing an entirely new cost base for our bottlers freeing up more capital for reinvestment. The lower cost base is also making us more cost competitive as overall volume continues to migrate toward large format stores.  

Finally, with the supply chain company now handling nationwide manufacturing, bottlers can focus on customer service and distribution.  

In summary, we're continuing to make progress toward our four key priorities in Japan: Growing profitably in supermarkets, focusing on our core brands, delivering new profit avenues, and driving costs out of the system. I'm confident as we execute against those strategies, Japan will continue to support our company in Asia.  

Let's move to China.  

I couldn't be more enthusiastic or positive about this market. It's a winner for the Company. We have the skills, the bottler commitment, and the plans to continue to drive growth.  

This year we're going to focus on three areas: Number one is carbonated soft drink growth through stepped-up marketing investment. Our 50-plus carbonated soft drink share position in China gives us a strong foundation.  

What we're doing now is driving preference and increased share through ownership activation of teen and young adult passion points and channels. We've already seen positive outcome from our programs and the favorite brand measure for Coke in metros among teens is up 2 percentage points and Sprite increased by 3 percentage points.  

This is translated into first quarter carbonated soft drink growth of 20% on top of 15% in 2004 and a 1.2 percentage point carbonated soft drink share increase. We're also increasing cold drink equipment placements with plans for an incremental 100,000 coolers this year.  

Finally, we continue to accelerate returnable glass bottle penetration to address affordability in smaller cities and rural areas. We believe this a key competitive advantage in China as it makes our beverages affordable to a much larger consumer base. In the current quarter alone, returnable glass growth was 19%.  

The second area of non-carbonated beverages, where we will continue to build scale and enhance profitability in teas by building on the very successful 2004 launches of Nestea Ice Rush and Modern Tea Workshop. In the first quarter Nestea grew 175% versus a year ago where Modern Tea Workshop has captured brand leadership in the non-western tea segments in markets where it's available.  

We will do the same within the juice category as we relaunch Qoo with the new mom and child-friendly proprietary bottle and new formula. We're also expanding the very popular Orange Pulp by Minute Maid.  

Our juice volumes were up 51% versus prior year, and we have also gained the leading category share position in markets where Qoo and Orange Pulp are both present.  

Finally, we'll enter value-added hydration with the new entrance under the POWERade brand.  

The final area's improving capability and system economics, where we agreed to a ten-year vision with our bottlers that will substantially increase cold drink sales, marketing and infrastructure. We're committed to aggressively expanding and investing in China, building on a strong business foundation and our track record of successes, and we have no doubt it will be a significant contributor for future growth.  

The final market I wanted to address this morning is India. Another market with tremendous opportunity but one requiring a different approach than China.  

Over the past two years, we've pursued an affordability strategy that dramatically increased our volume base. In the second half of 2004, however, we implemented a double digit price increase to cover the continued rise in material and distribution costs. The price increase was necessary, but it did impact volume.  

We're also continuing to look for ways to manage costs throughout this year, such as programs to deseasonalize the business to better leverage our infrastructure.  

Along with costs, there are other challenges in India, including a still emerging carbonating soft drink culture, not to mention the residual effects of the unfounded pesticide scare in 2003. With these challenges we are leveraging our flavored carbonated soft drinks and non-carbs in returnable glass like Maaza fruit drinks to more effectively grow per [caps].  

To free up investment for these brands we've also built into our plans a de-emphasis on our unprofitable water and powder products. In the first quarter we saw the beginnings of some of these strategies unfold, but volumes were down for the quarter, reflecting the de-emphasis on water and powders and, again, the price increase.  

However, we're seeing strong growth in Maaza up 15%, and Sprite-flavored carbonated soft drink up 21%. As we continue to improve our execution of these strategies, I believe we'll build India into improving our market over time.  

So that's a few thoughts on Asia, a region that provides great opportunity, a diverse portfolio, and a strong position on which to build. As Mutar and Patrick bring their own perspectives and strengths to bear on implementation of our strategies for these markets, I'm sure the success will continue.  

Further, with the move from two operating units to three in Europe and Asia, we will be able to increase the intensity of our focus on realizing these growth opportunities.  

Finally, I believe the insights I've gained from covering such a broad and diverse marketplace will be helpful and will continue to inform my perspective on strategy and execution in my new role. Speaking of which, I'm sure many of you may be wondering what's on my list of priorities, so I thought I'd give you a few initial thoughts.  

I don't officially start the job for a few more weeks, however, given my background in Asia and with the Company in general, it's fair to say do I have a few hypothesis on how to approach this new position, but let me put one qualifier on them. These are working assumptions that I'll put to the test over the next several months by listening and learning from other markets around the world.  

First of all, our road to greater innovation and marketing effectiveness is challenging, but it is certainly not impossible, nor even that long in my mind. There are known and proven examples of marketing and innovation around our global system that if leveraged in more markets, would give us a pipeline of marketing and innovation excellence that could last us years.  

Many of those successes happen outside the U.S. and part of my role is to bring new ideas to this market, as well as broaden your horizons on the work we're doing outside the United States.  

The second assumption is that we can expand and push our existing brands to address immediate consumer needs without creating entirely new trademarks which can be a big investment. Let me give you a simple example.  

Fanta can and should play a bigger role in helping us address local competitive threats. In Australia, milky, fruity beverages are popular so we launched a creamy smooth sub-brand called Fanta Spiders that leveraged the equity of Fanta's fun heritage and brand recognition, but also added new values and interest to the trademark while addressing its local competitive threat.  

Likewise, the success of Sprite Zero is just the beginning of adding new product benefits to this brand that leverage its thirst-quenching heritage but take it into whole new areas of functionality.  

The next assumption is around is marketing and advertising for Brand Coke. In terms of marketing and advertising for Brand Coke, you've already seen the revival of an icon work presented by Marc Mathieu and to build on that I believer there are exciting examples of excellent work around the world.  

Much of that work is clustering around three general areas of brand values, and I think we've got an opportunity to refine those ideas even further to create a more consistent and meaningful brand communication strategy globally.  

My final assumption is that we need to do a better job of breakthrough innovation in the mid and long-term. By providing an umbrella of integration over marketing, innovation and strategy groups, I believe Danny Strickland, Chuck Fruit, and the head of the strategy group can quickly flush out a strategic growth roadmap that will direct our resources and ensure greater focus on substantially new products, new packages and new avenues for growth.  

For example, hot dispensing, warm beverages, at-work channel, new forms of interactive advertising and communication, they're all very rich areas with potential.  

Bottom line, I guess, to sum it up is, we don't have a shortage of ideas. We have a shortage of focus leading to a bit of an inability to prioritize and make hard choices.  

We also have a bit of risk aversion, and having lived through four-week product life cycles in Japan, I'm confident we can do a better job of embracing risk, learning as much from our failures as our successes, and simply getting on with leveraging ideas we know work in other parts of the world.  

So my priorities are as follows: Initiate quick wins by leveraging products, packages, and marketing ideas from around the world and by expanding the footprint of existing trademarks. Two, establish priorities for the breakthrough innovation pipeline that is currently being worked on for the mid and longer term.  

Three, ensure the executive committee has the business facts and recommendations it needs for developing the strategic roadmap I referenced. Four, build a world-class marketing organization. And finally, accelerate our marketing success rates, especially on our lifeblood, Brand Coca-Cola.  

I'm looking forward to working with both Chuck Fruit and Danny Strickland as we approach the challenges ahead and sharing with you our progress as we continue to strengthen this great company. As most of you know, market something my passion, and it's my background, and I'm thrilled and I'm delighted with the new position.  

With that said, I'll turn the call over to Gary who will share some final thoughts on the quarter.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Mary and good morning. I'd like to spend just a couple of minutes covering what may be top of mind before we get to your questions.  

As you saw in our release this morning, we reported earnings per share of $0.42 on a diluted basis. That number was reduced by $0.05 of negative impact related to items impacting comparability which included the following: $0.06 per share, which was an accrual for taxes related to the repatriation of foreign earnings and I'll touch on that in more detail in a minute, a non-cash $0.02 per share negative impact related to accelerated amortization of stock-based compensation and I'll also give you a few details on that.  

Going the other way was a tax benefit of $0.02 a share for favorable resolution of tax matters, and a $0.01 per share gain on issuance of stock by Coca-Cola Amatil in connection with one of their acquisitions. Therefore, our earnings per share after considering those items was $0.47 per share.  

Within that $0.47 now, let me discuss a few of those items that I think that are worth mentioning as they relate to the balance of the year. In the quarter, we had a change in the estimate of the service period for retirement eligible associates when the terms of their stock-based compensation awards provide accelerated vesting upon early retirement.  

What that means is that for current associates who are eligible for early retirement, we will now be fully expensing their stock-based compensation over the period from the grant date to the date that the associate is legally entitled to the award. In our case this is generally 12 months.  

Previously we expensed stock-based compensation over the expected service period which was generally equal to the original vesting period of the award, generally four years. Basically, what that means is that in the first quarter, we incurred a $50 million or about $0.02 per share charge.  

The full-year impact will be about $55 million and then moving into 2006 and beyond, we expect the normalized level related to these expenses will be closer to about $15 million or so.  

So basically, it's timing. We're accelerating the amortization of the expenses. Total expense is the same but it's a timing within quarters and within years.  

In addition, we benefited about 5% at the operating income line from currency, and therefore, our current outlook for the balance of the year is that we now expect to see a moderate benefit from currency. The Company will review opportunities to selectively reinvest these currency benefits into additional marketing programs in 2005 if we believe they will drive long-term sustainable growth, and as we review those opportunities, that could include currency benefits derived in the first quarter.  

In terms of a tax rate for the full year we now expect our underlying effective tax rate on operations to be 24% for the year. That's a point lower than what we had told you initially.  

In terms of expectations beyond this year, I think it's just a little too early to give a specific rate since there are so many items that impact the tax rate.  

Turning to share repurchase, because of our settlement discussions with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice, we were generally not in the market in share repurchase during the first quarter; however, we will re-enter the market now and would still expect to repurchase at least 2 billion of the Company's stock by the end of this year.  

And finally, on tax repatriation of foreign earnings, we will be repatriating approximately $2.5 billion under the American Jobs Creation Act that will be used for qualifying purposes. The maximum amount that we can repatriate under the act is about 6.1 billion, and we will continue to evaluate during the course of the year whether to repatriate the remaining 3.6 billion.  

The last thing I want to remind you is that we are really early in the year and as Neville said at the beginning of the call we have a lot of work to do especially in some of our key markets including North America, Germany, India, and the Philippines. We still look at 2005 as a transition year and the year to put the foundation firmly in place.  

While we may have over delivered, I guess, some of your expectations, please remember that operating income was actually down 6% for the quarter versus prior year, and that we will continue to aggressively invest in our brands to build the foundation. Therefore, as you think about the remainder of the year, I would encourage you to keep the current quarter's results in perspective.  

With that, I'd like to turn it over to your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: [Operator instructions] We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. First, I was just hoping that Gary could just help us in terms of how much market spending was up in the quarter in terms of actual increased pressure against the market versus it being up because of the sales curve accounting.  

And then, Mary, I was hoping that you could help us on, you talked about in marketing innovation, more internal focus, leveraging what you have. Do you see the need for more external enhanced capability as well, whether it be acquisition, partnership, added bench strength in the area of marketing and innovation? Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Bill, Gary. First on marketing. Marketing was up 15% in the quarter, and, in fact most all of that, I'd say 14% to 15%, so substantially all of it, in fact, was actual cash or accrual spend and was not significantly impacted by the sales curve in the quarter. Now what we have said is a lot of the incremental spend that we'll have will be in the latter part of the year, particularly the fourth quarter so you'll see some pretty significant increases later in the year as we get into the latter part. But it's 15% in the first quarter. Mary?  

MARY MINNICK: Hi, Bill, it's Mary. I think, yeah, a couple of points to make on externally looking outside the Company for sources of growth. First of all, I think one of the biggest external focuses we need to develop is to look outside for ideas.  

I mentioned Hajime came from looking at our tea growers. Bottle can and the emblem technology we used in Japan came with a partnership with our can suppliers. Diet Coke with Splenda came from one of our customers so we need to do a better job of casting the net externally for source of ideas.  

In terms of talent, I believe that we have a combination of both internal and external sources for that, accelerating the development plans for our existing marketing community and building their capabilities, but when needed bringing in external bench strength.  

In terms of acquisitions and in those kinds of things, I think Neville's been pretty clear that our minds are open, but right now there's nothing on the horizon. And more importantly, our focus is getting the core right, right now. And as I said, I believe there are some quick wins of leveraging other ideas more consistently in more markets that will help us build that core.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher with J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. Gary, can you talk about the currency impact in terms of, you talked about sort of spending some of it back potentially over the balance of the year. Can you talk about the decision to maybe let some of it flow through the bottom line for this quarter and then how you perceive that decision being made in timing over the balance of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, John, thanks. As you saw we did have some positive currency, 5% at the operating income line in the first quarter, and we would expect now to see modest currency benefits for the full year. But basically, I would say this, we will spend the currency benefits back if we see business opportunities that we can invest behind the brands that we think will drive sustainable long-term growth.  

We just really getting into the year one quarter behind us, and really have not seen those opportunities at this point. As we get into the summer's selling season, I think we'll see more opportunities, but it's really a matter that we will spend prudently and we'll only spend against things that we think will drive long-term sustainable growth, and as we get into the year, I think there'll be some opportunities. If there are, we will spend it, if they're not, then it will flow really through to the bottom line.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Neville here. I just wanted to add that in the last call I talked about a discipline review process in terms of the incremental 350 to 400. We want to be sure that we're delivering against that discipline and only if we are sure of that will we entertain any incremental spend. So it's too early for me to give you a judgment on that, but clearly, that would be our intent if we felt we were able to productively do that and get a return.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. And then if I can just follow-up on Bill's question quickly about the sales curve. Gary previously you had mentioned that the incremental marketing spend would be impacted by sales curve accounting. Are you saying that's not the case now?  

GARY FAYARD: No, what's happening is generally if you think about, just to put everybody kind of on the same base, on the sales curve accounting basically is overexpecting unit case sales for the year and so basically what you're attempting to do is to get the same marketing per case throughout the year, if you will. And what had happened previously is that much of the marketing in the fourth quarter was actually on a cash basis much lower than what the sales curve would indicate because a lot of the marketing was actually spent earlier in the year, and you had very little left in the fourth quarter, but the sales curve, because you're doing it over the full year at a certain cents per case, was showing a lot of marketing under what GAAP requires in the fourth quarter.  

So in the first quarter, there was, you know, maybe 10 or $12 million of difference I think between sales curve and actual cash accrual-type spend, but that's, as Neville had pointed out earlier, in some of our calls, that a lot of the incremental marketing will actually be pressure against consumer in the latter part of the year, particularly in the fourth quarter I think is where you'll see it.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Robert van Brugge with Sanford Bernstein.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Good morning. A question on Germany. This is probably the last quarter where you had a somewhat tougher comp and then you're going to start comping the 15% declines last year. Are you seeing any turn in the business in particular in the soft discounter channels as you're rolling out some of your proprietary packaging there?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, obviously there was a little bit of moderation of the trend getting into the end of the quarter. And certainly, we do start cycling as we get into the second quarter, the impact of the delistings in the discounter channel. We also have got listings in four discounters right now, Lidl, Penny and two regional chains and we're looking at one other at the moment.  

So we do expect some moderate lift with that, but remember it's one package albeit a high-volume package in those channels, and, of course, the level of profitability there is not that high. You know Germany in general, this is, your question is aimed at the discount channel, but Germany, in general is still a challenge and will continue to be a challenge for the balance of the year.  

ROBERT VAN BRUGGE: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Farkas with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. My question has to do with North America. Did innovation boost the bottler volumes in the first quarter or was there an innovation included in your results? And what steps are being taken in the Foodservice division where you're seeing some tougher comps in the second quarter? Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, obviously the bottlers, particularly as the OCC announced their results on Thursday, so it wouldn't be appropriate for me to talk about bottler sales. But the big volumetric one is Coke with Lime, which is off to a good start but it was late in the month so too late to have any really appreciable effect.  

Full Throttle, although not large from a volumetric standpoint, but important from a profitability standpoint, has had a very strong launch and there's a lot of bottler enthusiasm around that. And certainly Dasani Flavors, again not volumetrically very important but has got very, very good traction.  

So I guess the net of that is that it's all to play for if you're talking volume, because Coke with Lime will be second quarter but we've also got, of course, Diet Coke with Splenda and Coke Zero, which of course is really going to be a third quarter game as we only launch on the 24th of June.  

To your broader question about Foodservice, there are a number of factors within what's happening at Foodservice. You'll see some strength in the category. If you look at McDonald's results, they have been strong. Some regional chains are not doing as well. And we have a major program at some small outlets.  

We've got some success of that, but really, there's no big news to report in terms of those two segments. I think the overriding one you would need to look at is the 100 days of Diet that we're starting in May and that's where we think we're going to get traction for North America as a whole.  

CHRISTINE FARKAS: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Kanter with Prudential Securities.  

JEFF KANTER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Good morning, everybody. A quick question for you. Gary, you have a lot of cash coming in the door from the repatriation, there's currency tailwinds. What do you plan on doing with that cash? And also your results, your case sales were really not too bad despite some challenging markets. But do you think you have to keep on adding this type of marketing pressure to drive, you know, going forward to drive that type of case sale number? Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Jeff, thanks. On the repatriation and the 2.5 billion that we'll be bringing back that we accrued for in the first quarter the cash will actually move in the second quarter. We'll use that for qualifying purposes, which under the tax law itself is very explicit on what you can use it for, but you can use it, for example, on capital expenditures in the U.S., you can use it for advertising in the U.S. So we'll use it for the qualifying purposes under the tax law.  

Relative to spending, I think I'll let Mary take that one or Neville, but I think we all agree on what the answer is.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I hope we do. No, I'd like to point out on the marketing that remember the 350 to 400 million, when I first outlined that to you, this was getting us back to where we needed to be. This was a deep analysis that we'd done about how we were not putting the oxygen behind the brands, if I recall that's what I said. And we're really putting the oxygen behind the brands.  

So this is re-establishing the base. Not just to generate incremental volume, but to do what we need to do behind the brands. The next phase, as we look at it is the normal spend you would have that we would see for launches, et cetera, which we have normally been able to accommodate in the budget as a whole.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Greenberg with Deutsche Bank.  

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES: Thanks. Good morning. My question relates to some of the execution challenges in the U.S. and Northwestern Europe. First, Neville, can you clarify on the markets specifically that you're referring to in Northwest Europe and the unexpected weakness there, any comments you'd have would be appreciated.  

And secondly, how this informs your thinking about future structural change in Europe overall, both as relates to bottler configuration and/or route to market split between DSD and warehouse. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Let me take the last piece first. I don't think one quarter's results dictate structural change. So let me deal with the quarter and Northwest Europe.  

Northwest Europe really is Benelux, France, and Great Britain. And the quarter actually is sort of two months then one month, if you want to look at it that way. And what I mean by that is January, February were weak, and March came in a great deal stronger. And the weakness in January, February was actually in the general retail trade. I could go into a lot of detail.  

In the U.K. there was a switchover of one chain, Morrisons had taken over Safeway, they closed a lot of stores, we lost volume as a result of that. There was general weakness in the marketplace, that would refer to France. If you look at the non-results, you'll see that their quarterly numbers were down 7%.  

So there was a general weakness in the trade in that part of the world, a slowdown, but again, that started picking up. And we've got innovation coming as we go into the second quarter. We've got, you know, Diet Coke with Lime, we've got Minute Maid being launched in the U.K., we've got have Nestea coming. So those innovations start flowing into the second quarter.  

Let me say that, again, looking at Northwest Europe, that despite the volumetric numbers, we actually gained share, which then, again, reflects that it was a general weakness in the business as a whole.  

With regard to North America, I think in large degree, we've covered that. We certainly have gained some share in North America. We're getting some traction for, I've dealt with the new brands that we put out there, and you know what's coming for the balance of the year.  

So it is not a market where there is large volumetric growth, but I think that we're much, much better positioned with the innovations that we have for the balance of the year than we have been for a number of years, and I think our bottlers would echo that.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog with Smith Barney.  

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Good morning, everyone. You're introducing a new energy drink in Japan that claims to assist with weight loss if consumed, I think, after exercising. I would think that this product might have a great deal of appeal in other markets including the U.S., where clearly health and wellness is a central issue. What process would you need to go through to get a product like this approved? I'm curious how long this product approval process would take. Also are the reasons why you would not want to bring this product to the states.  

And finally, I guess, I'm trying to get an understanding of your willingness to bring successful products in existing markets in other markets across the world, and how quickly you can do this. Do you have the right infrastructure in place?  

MARY MINNICK: Wow. Multifaceted question.  

BONNIE HERZOG: I know.  

MARY MINNICK: Let me tackle it. First of all, let's start with the tactical. You're probably referring to Active Diet which is a version of POWERade in Japan. Japan has very different food laws from the rest of the world, and there are different levels of approval that you need to go through, ranging from pseudopharmaceuticals to over-the-counters to whatever.  

We have a process in Japan that allows us to quickly produce results and research to meet government laws so we can launch products like that. It is much more laborious in most other countries and there's an entirely different process. And in a lot of these cases some of these products would require clinical trials, and clinical trials can take anywhere from one to three years.  

So those are what we're going to call the known opportunities that are leverageable in the mid-term and we will put in place processes now to help put research in place so that if we do want to launch those two or three years from now, we can.  

Where we're focused right now, however, is what we're calling the known and proven in the short-term, and those don't require clinical trials, but they may have certain benefits that we can leverage. For example, we have a soy product in Japan that does not have the taste of a soy product but does soy extract. So you get the benefits of soy but you can put it in a great lemony tasting beverage that would be acceptable to most palates all over the world.  

That's really where we are concentrating our efforts. We believe those are opportunities that can be done in 12 to 24 months.  

In terms of the process and our willingness to drive that kind of expansion and leveraging of ideas, I think the first start was integrating marketing strategy and innovation under one structural organization.  

The second thing we'll be introducing to support that move is to introduce more of a project management concept in our company, where we will build bridges between functional areas that don't require a complete organizational rejig, but instead, put in a project management focus where cross functional people can work together without reporting to each other to quickly and more effectively pull together new product launches.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I just want to add one thing, which maybe some people have missed, and that is this title "innovation." Gary Strickland heads up innovation, but it is not a narrow definition of innovation, it's a very broad one, because it encompasses everything that we used to call "technical" so it has got everything to do with quality, it has got everything to do with flavors, but also, all of the area around packaging, new packaging development, everything to do with manufacturing processes, the development of high-speed lines, it's a very, very broad remit. So if you, you know, think of what we used to call "technical," that's what innovation means.  

MARY MINNICK: Yeah, and just to elaborate more on the processes, you've heard about our Manifesto for Growth process. I think that was the first introduction to the general population in our Company. That you could put together work streams that could produce tangible results on a project management kind of basis without reporting to each other.  

It works. It's something we're going to leverage in the marketing strategy and innovation groups further so that we can more quickly go to market and commercialize ideas.  

BONNIE HERZOG: Okay. Very helpful. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Schwartzberg with Legg Mason.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER: Thanks, my question's been answered.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody, and that description of Asia was extremely helpful. Thank you, Mary. I was wondering if any of you could comment, because I get this question a lot, on whether it's confusing for the consumer in the U.S. to have so many different versions of diet. I think you've got four variations. And how you plan to position them so as to make them, you know, non-cannibalistic but to add to growth?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Obviously, Caroline, [inaudible] I don't believe it is confusing, and I think it's your mind-set. You look at all of the offerings that are there for the consumer in the total carbonated soft drink category or in the total diet soft drink category. There are a multitude of offerings.  

The fact that they all, that a number, or an increased number are going to come from us is really one of execution, not one of confusion to the consumer. So, you know, the set isn't how many do we have now that the consumer has to look at, it's how much incremental is that in the total set of diet beverages that are out there. And that changes the way you look at it. So it's execution with regard to the bottler.  

And the other thing is, I think you see this increasing segmentation that's taking place. Let me take the Splenda and the reason Diet Coke with Splenda, or sweetened with Splenda, the reason that we have been, you know, very specific about branding it that way is so that the consumer knows exactly what we're offering.  

There was debate around other brand names, but at the end of the day, we're looking at the Splenda consumer, the people who really value Splenda as a sweetener and, therefore, we are giving them what they want. And I think that sort of encompasses what we need to do in the future, look at where the profitable niches are, if they are niches or if they're broader, obviously we want to be there too, and make the appropriate offering.  

And, therefore, we will have a greater proliferation taking place in the future in terms of the number of offerings that we have for the consumer in the broader non-alcoholic beverage category, and Mary's talked about Japan, where we have that breadth and we're able to manage it and there's no reason a sophisticated market like the United States, that our bottlers shouldn't be able to have that level of sophistication as well.  

MARY MINNICK: Just to build on that, Caroline, what we found in Japan is that you can add new values and dimensions to the trademark, enhance the imagery of that trademark, and create new interest in reconsideration among consumers while leveraging, you know, the obvious built-in awareness and brand equities of the trademark. The challenge is to make sure that you do it within well established parameters. In other words, it's up to us to do it right.  

Because there's a right way and a there's wrong way to do this. And the right way is to understand your core values, be willing to add new dimensions to that core to evolve it, but never to depart from what the core brand values are. So frankly, it's up to us to make it clear to the consumer and I believe we've got enough rights and wrongs to help us guide us as we launch into this diet expansion.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. Just a question on input costs and, I guess, for Gary, have you seen any pressure through the bottling system or your own in terms of higher input costs? I guess more specifically packaging. And, also, with gas and oil prices, fuel prices being higher, have you begun to see at all, you know, any effect on consumption around the consumer and are you factoring any of that into your plans for the balance of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: Bryan, thanks. Relative to input costs, for the Company itself, most of what we've seen is the result of gasoline costs and freight costs particularly in our finished product operations both in the U.S. and other parts of the world where we have seen increased costs in freight, some in packaging. The bottlers are seeing those increased costs as well.  

Mary talked about in India where we put through some price increases because of the increased input cost, and you're seeing actually some pricing the U.S. industrywide because of input costs, increases. I think hopefully we're seeing some of those peak, and hopefully the worse of that is kind of with us or maybe starting to be behind us.  

At this point, relative to Foodservice in the U.S., we've seen in many of our customers continue to have very good results, but I think we're starting to have some concern about the impact of fuel cost and whether that will slow traffic in the U.S. to some extent, but I think it's too early to tell at this point.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Operator, I think we've got time for one last question  

OPERATOR: Okay. Your final question comes from Timothy Ramey with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Yes, good morning. This is Carlos Laboy. Neville, you keep highlighting the strengths of South Africa and Latin America. Some of your key bottlers are doing a lot of work in those regions and exploring the merits of joining elements of beer and soft drink businesses so three questions fall out of that.  

One is, what is your role in this process going forward? The second one is, there was a time when Coke seemed to avoid beer and soft drink businesses coming together, has this changed? And the third one is, what would worry you or excite you about national beer operations coming closer to regional bottling businesses?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, I think what you're referring to is the delisting in South Africa of Amalgamated Beverage Industries and that becoming essentially a division of South African breweries because actually in Latin America there's been no major change at all in the structure of how it operates with Coca-Cola FEMSA. The real reason for that is the cost of maintaining the float. We're not perceived to be worthwhile. And sitting with Graham, that's Graham Mackay of SABMiller that was clearly the case.  

On a day-by-day basis, there's actually very little change. The two businesses are being run entirely separately. And they will continue to be run entirely separately. So that really was the reason for that happening, and we don't see any major integration at all with regard to distribution, et cetera, with soft drinks and beer.  

You know in individual cases, there may be, we've always done it up the valleys or the fjords of Norway where we put beer and soft drinks together where in instances the economics dictate, but they're very separate businesses. They require different approaches, and to the broader question that you're asking, I don't see that there's a major integration that will take place with regard to beer and soft drinks.  

Let me go back to your, you know, question about beer and soft drinks. Increased beer, increasing its role with regard to soft drinks, that's not essentially true because there have been areas where the beer people have withdrawn from soft drinks. Germany would be a major case in point, part of Nordic as well. So there are some instances where the brewers have extended their reach. There have been some where, in fact, they have moved aside, but as large brewers who are our bottlers expand and get bigger, I still anticipate that the businesses will be run separately.  

So let me just conclude with a few final comments and thanks to each of you for joining us today.  

I just wanted to say as we wrap up, that I'm really pleased with what we've accomplished to date, and I'm confident that we are doing the right things, that we are making progress. But, again, I want to re-emphasize that we have got much work ahead of us and that execution, that word I kept promising I would emphasize, and I will continue to do that is critical to all of us.  

So as we move throughout the year and into the second, third, and fourth quarters, I look forward to continuing to apprise you of what's happening and of monitoring the progress which I believe we are starting to make.  

Thank you very much indeed.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Coca-Cola Company conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
ihtwoo : Bottled Water | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050503e14j0005n
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,505 words
   PD
16 February 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star, 1 on your touch-tone phone. If you're on a speakerphone, please pick up the telephone handset. To withdraw your question, press star, 2. Participants will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors. Therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed in the forum. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Ms. Ann Taylor, Director of Investor Relations, who will begin the conference. Ms. Taylor, you may begin.  

   TD
ANN TAYLOR, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for joining us. I'm pleased to be joined today by Neville Isdell, our Chairman[ph] and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, and Don Knauss, head of our North American operations. Following our prepared remarks this morning we will turn the call over for your questions. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we request a limit to 1 question per turn. Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction[ph] with cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and exhibit 99.1 of the Company's most recent form 10-K.  

In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted schedules on our Company Website, coca-cola.com, the investor section, which reconcile our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles, certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look on our Website for this information. Now let me turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN & CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Ann, and good morning to each of you. I'm sure you've had a chance to review the release we issued this morning. Gary is going to take you through the main components at the end. So I'm not going to spend too much time covering what is in the release. What I would like to do this morning is to move to a slightly different format than the one that we've had in previous quarterly conference calls. Gary and I will be on each call, we'll cover the results at a consolidated level. But beginning this quarter, we are going to move to highlighting just 1, possibly 2 of the operating groups on each call, so that we can get into more depth on strategies on an individual group basis, on their marketing plans, and on the results for that particular [Inaudible]. We'd also like to continue to provide plenty of time for your questions. So I'm going to briefly update you from our discussions of November 11 and then Don Knauss is going to give you details on our plans for North[ph] America. Then, Gary will follow with additional insights for the fourth quarter results and the 2005 outlook before we move to your questions.  

Some might view that the Coca-Cola Company did not perform up to its potential in 2004[ph]. We did in fact see some slight improvements late in the fourth quarter, which were indeed encouraging. But to be frank, these were against very muted expectations coming into the final few months. While most of you know the issues for 2004, think about our discussions on November 11th, I think we all have a good[ph] view on the things that need to address and we are doing just that. As part of our discussions in November, I mentioned that 2005 would not be a year in which we would judge ourselves the generation of earnings growth, but rather by the steps that we take to get the foundation right. To improve our marketing execution and to get our Company back to reaching full potential. I'm pleased to report to you this morning we are moving in the right direction. We're acting with a greater sense of urgency to deliver on our promises and I am confident[ph] that we will meet our goals that we have laid out[ph].  

You know, you might well ask, why am I confident? There are a few good reasons. I am confident that given the strength of our brands around the world, that we are going to be able to re-establish our marketing leadership. We were clear about that last fall, and the fact we lost a very small amount of volume and value share in 2004, less than in 2003, really primarily driven by our performance in some key products, is simply unacceptable. However, we still have strong plans globally[ph], and we're going to build on those, and we're going to leverage those as we move forward[ph]. I'm also confident that given the continued improvements in our system health, as evidenced by continuing improvements of our profit returns of[ph] many of our bottlers, and you saw the results for the CHPC this week, that we have a stronger system.  

Also have made good progress in building and acting upon a really new spirit to drive our organization, one of confidence, urgency, and importantly accountability, to build a great business for the long-term. To be sure, we still have a long way to go. But the operating framework which I mentioned to you last fall, in which we'll focus our entire organization on the task at hand, namely creating sustainable growth, coming together well. I look forward to being able to share our thinking on this framework to you[ph] the week at CAGNY. Finally, I'm confident that given the strength of our financial position, we have a very firm base. Even in a difficult year, our Company generated approximately $6[ph] billion in cash from operations. We invested over $1 billion of that in the form of PP&E and acquisitions.  

And returned over 4 billion of that to share owners in the form of dividends and share repurchase. We also ended up the year with a very strong balance sheet. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not changing my point of view that 2005 will be about what we're doing as opposed to financial results. We have some very important[ph] work ahead of us that will take time to develop into tangible financial impact. But hopefully, what you will see -- what you will sense as we move through 2005 is that the steps that we are taking are the right ones, that they will eventually lead to meeting our objectives as we move past 2005.  

One of those areas where we are particularly focused is North America. And given that emphasis, I've asked Don to share with you some of the insights on the progress that we are making in what is our flagship market. I'd like to hand it over to Don now.  

DON KNAUSS, HEAD NORTH AMERICAN OPERATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Neville, and good morning to each of you. As Neville mentioned, I want to share with you this morning some of our plans we have in place for 2005. You could say I like to stress the words some of our plans, since I want to make sure we don't offer[ph] a head start to our competition even [ph] in the interest of providing our share owners with updates of our plans. Now with that as a backdrop, in 2005 we have a plan that is centered on 3 areas. First, accelerated marketing. Second, more robust innovation. And third, a balanced revenue growth plan across channels. Let me start with the first one, accelerated marketing. I believe it's important to understand our expectations for marketing expense[ph] or DME spend as we call it, for 2005.  

There has been quite a bit of discussion on this topic [Inaudible] stepped-up marketing spending was announced last November by Neville. But we told you we were not going to go into specifics on allocation by geography, by brand, or category. Now that view has not really changed. However, I can [Inaudible] we are planning a substantial increase DME spend for North America in 2005 and importantly, that's building off a significant increase that we had in 2004[ph]. I have no doubt that this will be an essential element to [Inaudible] back on the path of re-establishing our marketing leadership in North America. Further, thanks to some productivity gains, particularly in media buying and reduction nonworking [Inaudible], like leveraging our international advertising. In fact, if you watched TV at all in December you probably noticed our advertising, our white Christmas spot and our polar bear ads and both of those ads were produced outside the United States. We are going to do more of that [Inaudible] into 2005. Now, combine this with stepped-up spending we're going to increase our pressure against the consumer in brand building activities.  

The key is making our increased DME work. It lives and it dies on how we are using those dollars. And we are going to focus on 3 priorities. First, an emphasis on diet and light products in our emerging health and wellness platform. Second, strengthening our communication on core brands. And third, emphasizing flexible customer[ph] programs regionally. Let me start with the emphasis on the diet and light products. There is no doubt that the diet category has been strong the past few years. Our growth in diets and light [Inaudible] in 2004 alone was 6 percent which plays to our strength given our 50 plus share of the diet cola category. Even with that kind of growth, our marketing dollars, innovation focus, and resources were not properly matched against the category.  

So in 2005, we will start with a major re-emphasis of Diet Coke as we are planning for a doubling of our DME spending on diets behind advertising that really is the best testing the business has had in several years. We'll also follow-up with a major emphasis on what we are internally referring to as the 100 days of diet, which I will discuss in more detail in a minute. This is where the stepped-up[ph] marketing really[ph] makes a difference. We will be able to support the innovation that we have coming in a way it deserves. Outside of our diet CSDs, we are also planning a double digit increase on POWERADE. Included in those dollars will be a first ever inclusion in the NCAA tournament media and an overall increase in the national advertising calendar. In energy drinks, we are also supporting nationwide energy drink advertising campaign, which you may have already seen.  

Our second priority around accelerated marketing is enhancing the communication on our core brands, including brand Coke, Fanta, Sprite, Minute Maid and DASANI. In addition we expect our targeted rating points, or TRPs, to be up substantially. In the first quarter alone[ph] our TRPs will be double what they were in 2004. And we are spreading our spend across 7 varied media elements versus 3 last year. An example, this year a much more significant print program than we had last year. The third priority for accelerated marketing will be moving more investment towards tailored customer programming at the local level, underneath[ph] key unique national marketing [Inaudible]. Now, last year, customers told us that broad national promotions provide less [Inaudible] they are looking for ways to differentiate themselves in the [Inaudible]. By building flexible and local relevant programs around pillars such as NASCAR, NCAA, and Small Town USA, we can leverage properties but still provide flexibility to our customer.  

And although it often doesn't get[ph] top billing, some really great things are happening in the food service hospitality area. The customer value creation system or really our -- the bundle of goods and services we provide to our customers is showing some really positive results in the marketplace. For us, those sales efforts starting in January will expose thousands of potential new customers to the system by the summer. As we move through 2005, we will increase our ability to retain [Inaudible] recruit customers by further enhancing the the components of the system. That really summarizes that effort around accelerated marketing. What I would like to do now is move into the second area of our results in 2005, which is building this more robust innovation pipeline. And I emphasize the word pipeline because while our discussions today focus on 2005, we are developing a multi-year approach to our entire innovation platform.  

And as we plan and execute this innovation, we are focused on [Inaudible] trend. Health and wellness, 40 plus, lifestyle refreshment, and the fourth, convenience. Now, in focusing on these 4 trends, sourcing ideas from around our global system which we see as a real competitive advantage of our Company. Much of our innovation [Inaudible]overlaps more than just 1 trend and quite honestly the bull's eye are really products that hit all 4[ph] at once. The health and wellness and 40 plus certainly go hand in hand and our innovation in diet CSD addresses both of these opportunities. Now, as I mentioned a little bit ago we are going to kick off a 100 day diet focus starting in May with the introduction of Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda. To understand our positioning on our diet portfolio, you first need to understand the breakout of consumer preferences for diet products. Now our testing shows there seems to be 3 distinct low calorie CSD drinkers. First, of course, are the [Inaudible] core diet drinkers whether it be Diet Coke, Diet Sprite Zero, Fresca or Tab. And these drinkers make up 70 percent of our current diet volume and see no need to switch.  

Now, with that said, we believe there is a lot of opportunity to increase the number of drinkers, with a good example being the updated ethics and renaming of ex Sprite[ph] to Diet Sprite Zero. Initial results indicate that it is accomplishing exactly what we had hoped in terms of revitalizing the health of that brand. Now, the second category of low calorie [Inaudible] drinkers is individuals who have a preference for[ph] Splenda sweetened products. These consumers typically skew female, slightly older than Diet Coke drinkers, it's really getting into the heart of this 40 plus category[ph] I referenced. That's where Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda comes in and we believe we have white space here. And then the final category is people who are looking for a great-tasting reduced calorie[ph] alternative but have not transitioned into one of our competitive or existing core diet products. This consumer typically skews male and younger. And when you look at the white space here, it is significant.  

In fact, in regular colas, for example, a sizable group of users migrate out of this category once they reach the age of 25 to 34 years -- 25 to 34 years old. Many to our existing products but there is certainly a lot of opportunity for [Inaudible] and we are going after this consumer certainly with Coca-Cola C 2, and Diet Coke with Lime has certainly found a foothold with these consumers and we will continue to approach this category which we believe has great upside. We believe there is tremendous opportunity to meet the consumer trends on health and wellness in 40 plus within the CSD category. But this trend is certainly larger than that. We're also focused on innovation around product and packaging for POWERADE. We are moving most of our POWERADE line into a new high performance bottle that is preferred 2 to 1 over the current bottle size and provided it [Inaudible] to the consumer. Although it is a little early to get into details, [Inaudible] also be some upcoming product news on POWERADE as well.  

As it relates to water, I want to re-emphasize our continued commitment across the entire portfolio of spring purified flavor and sparkling. As you know we are in discussions with Danone on our water businesses and we are very close to reaching an agreement in principal. We will update you certainly at the appropriate time. However, I can say any agreement will provide us the flexibility we need to drive our water business forward and deliver value to our customers. We also have some good innovation planned in the water category. As most of you know, we are in the process of rolling out DASANI flavored water starting in January and then the 2[ph] flavors will be available in 20-ounce plastic bottles in February and in 6 packs of 500 ML plastic bottles in March. TV advertising, local radio, and point of sale marketing will support that launch.  

In juices we will expand our presence of the chilled Minute Maid light orange juice and we have just launched a chilled light lemonade and light limeade with a couple other flavors. That is just starting this month. Finally, we are planning a Minute Maid light heart wise version as well on the success of heart wise last year. The next trend that we are focused on is around lifestyle refreshment. Here our innovation centers on brand extensions of our Coke Classic and Sprite brands and the launch of our full throttle energy drink. The goal is simple. It is really to create[ph] excitement, drive, trial and provide variety to the consumer. Consumers as we know are becoming every[ph] more variety seeking and we need to adapt to that trend. We have already announced Coke with Lime, we're rolling it out to the marketplace in about 2 weeks.  

Coke with Lime follows the success of January, 2004 rollout of Diet Coke with Lime which has become the number 1 favored diet cola in the United States. Also preparing for the launch of our third Sprite remix brand, Aruba Jam[ph], which is a tropical flavor, almost a tropical punch flavor. In energy drinks, getting serious[ph]. We -- certainly, we're not the first entrant but we believe we've got a great look, great advertising play, we have launched a nationwide advertising campaign using outdoor media with, we think, really great copy. We also have a distinctive target of hard-working men in the convenience channel. And importantly, in terms of taste, Full Throttle performed very well in trials so sampling will play a key role in this launch as well.  

And finally, we have the strength of our bottling partners driving distribution across a myriad of channels. Now, convenience is the last of the 4 areas of [Inaudible] as consumers are demanding products and packaging that fit into their increasingly on-the-go lifestyle. We're expanding the presence of our fridge PET packaging across the United States[ph] core brands building off last year's successful DASANI Fridge Pack. They are currently at about 30 percent of the all commodity volume in these presses[ph], we're rolling this package out for Coke, Diet Coke, Caffeine Free Diet Coke and Sprite[ph]. And so far, our bottling partners have been able to get a premium price on this consumer preferred packaging. Now, in addition, we're also bringing the popular Fanta Splash Bottle to the United States.  

This package, which originated in Ireland, has been very successful in driving immediate consumption. So we got a solid year of innovation planned, plus a robust pipeline in development, which I talked about today, provides you just a glimpse of some of the plans and this leads to the final area in which we're focused on for 2005 which is to create this balanced revenue growth plan across key channels. Now, in our retail division, I know there has been certainly some skepticism around pricing and volume assumptions as they relate to 2005, so I would like to talk a bit about how we're approaching balanced revenue growth. First, a more surgical approach to pricing. We've worked together as a [Inaudible] to develop the very best process that identifies elasticity by channel and package and we have really used this data to guide our pricing decisions.  

For example, our bottlers are moderating price increases in future consumption packaging, where elasticity is higher and are getting more price in inelastic packages such as the single serve 20 ounce. [Inaudible] the innovation is about driving brand and product mix, which will take pressure off of pricing rate. In 2005, we expect to get a meaningful portion from mix and then build on from there as we move into 2006[ph] and 2007. Lastly, channel management and driving [Inaudible] across channels is a consideration as well. We've already mentioned immediate consumption but we're also focused on channels like club stores and supercenters[ph], with differentiated packaging like the 32 pound case that is is now rolling out. These are ideas that meet the needs of the shoppers who purchase at those stores.  

On summary then, North American business in 2005[ph] is focused on those 3 areas. First, accelerated marketing, second, a more robust innovation platform[ph], and third, balanced revenue growth across key channels. We have really good plans. We're aligned with our bottlers and they are telling us this is the best innovation plan they've seen in years and there certainly is an energy and a motivation to get the ship moving in the right direction. Do we expect 2005 to be a perfect year? No. But I believe that it would be unrealistic given that where we're coming from in 2004 and some of the issues such as the cost pressures our system faces in 2005. Further, our stepped-up spending is exactly what we[ph] need to be doing, reinvesting in brands takes time and payback is not immediate.  

Therefore, we're not judging this year on profit growth but on putting the right plans in place and getting our (indiscernible) back on the [Inaudible]. As we move throughout the year[ph], I look forward to being able to share with you some of the positive results that I expected from these [Inaudible]. With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Gary who will share some final thoughts on the quarter and 2005. So let me turn over the call to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Don. Good morning to everybody. I would like to spend just a few minutes covering what is likely top of mind and then we'll move to your questions. First, let me start with earnings per share. Given the numerous items impacting comparability I want to start briefly by going back through the EPS numbers for the full year. If you remember back in November, we anticipated that earnings per share for 2004 would[ph] be in the range of $1.88 to $1.90. Now, that included $0.10 of net charges from earlier in the year which impacted comparability.  

So our estimate after considering these items is approximately $1.98 to $2.00 and I believe the First Call estimates reflected this with an average of $2.00 per share. Our actual results came in higher than we originally anticipated. After considering the items impacting comparability, our actual results for the full year were $2.06 compared to the First Call estimate of $2.00. So let me explain the $0.06 of upside in our numbers. Approximately $0.03 of the upside resulted from better performance from our operations late in the quarter and from positive currency benefits. Another $0.03 of the earnings resulted from a lower than expected tax rate, a settlement with a supplier, and higher than expected gallon sales in North America, items we do not expect to have a [Inaudible] in 2005.  

Now, let me turn to my favorite topic which is cash flow. For the full year, the Company had another strong year in cash from operations, [Inaudible] a record level of approximately $6 billion, 9 percent increase over 2003. As a matter of fact, over the past 4 years our compounded annual growth in cash from operations has been 14 percent. Our purchases, our PP&E, totaled $755 million, leaving over 5 billion after we reinvested in our fixed assets, an increase of over 12 percent for[ph] 2003. For the last 4 years our compounded annual growth rate is very strong 16 percent. The full year, we returned over 4 billion of that to[ph] our share owners, an increase of 16 percent over the prior year, through 2.4 billion in dividends and 1.7 billion in share repurchase. We came in slightly below our expectations of approximately 2 billion in share repurchase for the full year, primarily due to the October earnings release than our November presentation, analyst presentation on our long-term growth model.  

Because of those items, we've had to be out of the market for a significant period of time, which prevented us from reaching our goal for the year. Moving on to taxes, our reported tax rate for the quarter was 15.5 percent which reflects 2 things. First, the benefit from favorable tax matters, resolutions of approximately $98 million in the quarter, including a benefit from the new[ph] legislation, the American Jobs Creation Act, which was passed in 2004. This benefit's separate and distinct from the potential impact of repatriating accumulated income earned abroad and I will cover a bit more on that in a minute. Second item impacted our -- impacting our reported tax rate in the quarter is a reduction of the underlying tax rate for the year to 24.5 percent from our anticipated 25 percent. As a benefit for the full year reduction was booked in the fourth quarter, our underlying effective tax rate for the quarter was 22.7 percent.  

Now on the repatriation of earnings, we are continuing to evaluate whether to repatriate earnings in 2005 under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act. We estimate that the maximum amount that can be repatriated under the Act is $6.1 billion. We also ended 2004 with over 6 billion in cash and cash equivalents which gives us the flexibility as we assess our options. Finally, let me give you some thoughts on our outlook for 2005. As you know, we don't provide detailed earnings per share guidance but I do want to remind you of some comments we made last October and update on some additional insights for 2005.  

First of all, we do not expect our long-term objectives of high single digit growth in earnings per share to apply to 2005 due to stepped-up marketing[ph] spending and weak performance in certain key markets. As it relates to the stepped-up[ph] marketing we have finalized [Inaudible] plans and we expect that amount to be approximately 400 million, based on currency exchange rates as of last November. In addition, these dollars were allocated and will be spent on a local currency basis and therefore will fluctuate based on changes in exchange rates. That kind of leads me to our currency expectations. Our current estimate is that we will have normal currency [Inaudible] in 2005 at the operating income line, as you've all seen significant fluctuation in exchange rates over -- in fact, over the last few months.  

In terms of quarterly flow, there are a few things to keep in mind. In the first quarter of 2005, we will have 2 fewer selling days than the first quarter of 2004 and these will be offset in the fourth quarter. We will also be lapping the toughest comp year especially in Europe and North America. Some of you have also asked about the timing of the stepped-up marketing spending. Given that the majority of the dollars are marketing related and are allocated on a sales curve basis, the impact for the quarter will [Inaudible] accordingly. However, as we've said, building brands takes time and the anticipated impact on the top-line will not [Inaudible].  

In fact, the flow across the quarters, because of the sales curve, will in fact put it across all the quarters and allocate it across the quarters, although a lot of the spending will actually, on a total Company basis, actually be in the fourth quarter. So cash versus accounting. In terms of taxes, our best estimate today is that the underlying effective tax rate for this year will be approximately 25 percent. This does not include any impact [Inaudible] potential repatriation of funds that I mentioned previously. Finally, our best estimate on CapEx, purchases of PP&E for 2005, is that again it will be less than $1 billion and we expect to repurchase at least $2 billion of our stock this year. That's it for the topics I wanted to cover this morning and I would now turn it over to you for your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to remind everyone in order to ask a question, please press star then the number 1 on your telephone keypad. We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Marc Cohen with Goldman Sachs.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Neville, you know, in November, you talked about a number of nonfinancial metrics that we should judge you on in 2005 and value share and volume share were 2 of those, bottler health and I think brand health. Can you speak, at least, you know, in some of the major markets, about some of those indicators? I guess maybe you've already mentioned that value share was down in '04. Can you just take, you know, the top 5 or so markets that, you know, either way, where there was significant share gain, significant share loss and talk about that?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Marc, I know that metrics is a hot button for you and I'm going to try and answer your concerns on that as much as we can. Let me just emphasize it is both volume and value share but it is a modest amount of share that we lost in '04. But obviously, I'm not happy about that at all. As for where it came from, really it's where you would expect. It does fit in with what I talked about in November. It comes largely from the problem markets. It is the USA and you do see those [Inaudible] anyway, they come through in various forms so it is the USA. It is[ph] Germany when you look at Europe, the balance of Europe pretty strong. But, it is Germany and the problems of Germany which pull us down. And in Asia, you would look at the Philippines[ph]. Again, an issue which I've highlighted before. Japan a little bit mixed.  

It depends on the categories. The coffee category was weaker and we're strong in that category, tea was a little soft. Actually, CSD's were quite strong. So it's -- it's the major markets that I've always talked about. You then have to counter that, because obviously, Germany has been fairly dramatic in terms of what's (indiscernible) with sales, with a number of other markets that have been pretty strong. I mean China has been strong, not just on the volume metrically but in terms of share, you can point to South Africa, you can point to Spain, you can point to a number of other European markets. Mexico improved for the year, was weak earlier on. But Brazil was strong. So, there is that mix. But the -- it really is no different to -- as I said, in terms of November 11. With regard to brand health, we're not there yet. We will have some measures that we (indiscernible) assemble, it is a little more difficult to have those for you. We're now working on it. And we will certainly try and roll out something to you, I would say, by mid year we should have -- we should have something. And I think that more or less covers it. But you will see, as we go through the year, more and more metrics, but I wouldn't want to go to giving market shares by individual country. I think that gets into too much of a competitive issue and those details are not something that I'm proposing to share. But in terms of giving you more metrics, we certainly will be doing that as we go through the year.  

MARC COHEN: Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think that more or less -- more or less covers it.  

MARC COHEN: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. My question on -- when you look out to '05 and since we can't focus necessarily on the bottom-line, we're looking at the top-line, globally your innovation pipeline, where you stand in recruiting talent that you had referred to earlier, the bottler price increases around the globe, trying to recoup some of the raw material increases, where do you see the top-line relative to that 3 to 4 percent long-term goal of volume growth given where you stand on some of those metrics? Like the innovation, the quality of the marketing programs, recruiting talent, et cetera?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: A whole range of questions in there. With regard to recruiting talent, that is clearly under way. And particularly in the area of innovation, we have recruited some half a dozen very, very talented people from outside into pretty senior positions. But remember, when I talk about bench strength I talk about it in 2 ways. I talk about developing our own people as well as bringing in outside talent. And what we do have is we have a program, for example, called the leadership experience, and about the top 300 managers[ph] are going to be rolled through that particular [Inaudible] that is ongoing. I think we're about halfway through that right now. And so I -- I don't want you to focus only on bringing people in from outside. Job 1 is to skill our own people and that's what we're doing. We do have a good base.  

When you talk about innovation, I think Don was saying with regard to North America, we have got an absolutely full palate. If you talk to the bottlers[ph], they -- I was up with one of our bottlers with Don, we spent a day and a half with our second largest bottler last week, and they said to us, this is the strongest pipeline that we have had of innovation in years. And the same applies obviously in terms of the support we're putting behind the brands. In fact, you know, it is about all bottlers are going to be able to handle right now. We've got them with quote-unquote pedal to the metal. And that's why you see the bottlers in terms of their own comments saying that, you know, they think we're lined up for a good year. So then you take that outside the United States and you're seeing the same sort of pull out taking place. And remember Don in his comments was talking about innovation broadly. Not just in terms of product, but also in terms of packaging. He mentioned the splash bottle. He mentioned the fridge pack. And we know that the packaging is just as much of a growth innovation as product itself. So you got to look at that in 2 ways.  

So a number of these, I'm not going to go through and itemize, but, you know, you see Coke with Lime coming out in the U.K.. There are a number of innovations coming out and I'm going have more on that in my speech at CAGNY as to what we're doing around the world. I would say again to position 2005, that as you look at the innovation, it is within the current frame. They are flavor extensions, brand extensions, I mean if you look at Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda, I mean, that's like launching Diet Coke with Lime. It is a different variant of Diet Coke. But we know, in fact as Don touched on it, I mean the lime has been extremely successful. That's a very, very strong brand and with some other sleepers out there, like Minute Maid, that are growing very strongly, that's the first stage. And you will see more coming through in 2006.  

But the summary on innovation is we have a good strong pipeline within conventional thinking for '05. What we're working on really is '06 as being an inflection point and of course Japan is one of the pockets of excellence that we're going to be leveraging as well. In terms of the new growth, I think we just go back to where we were with the original guidance in terms of the model, and then what you've got to factor in is the reinvestments that we're making that we've announced already [Inaudible]. And, now I just -- I want to reiterate one thing[ph] here, because we -- there is some confusion about whether we return guidance when we made the announcements regarding September and also when we came out with the new guidelines in November. We felt in September, we had a need to come out and, you know, just tell the street exactly where we were. That was a onetime situation, really driven by the circumstances. So our policy of not giving guidance in the future is still intact and we will maintain that as we go forward.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher with J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. 2 very quick questions here. First, Neville, I've gotten a couple of comments from investors today who are hoping that some of the incremental marketing spend can be spent to get at least one extra song on the hold pattern while we're holding for the conference call. And than a question, Gary, on the gross margin number. It came in much better than I had anticipated. Can you talk about what's driving that and how much of that is potentially lower case volumes in the German business where you have the consolidation of the bottler.  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Don, and we will attempt to get some new music, first. But on margins, there are actually a couple things. You're absolutely right, a lot of that[ph] was the German bottler and -- because it is a high cost business. And there was a margin benefit, counter-intuitive, but there is a margin benefit from that. The other benefit that was coming through is remember the Japan supply chain company as well, and you've had a structural change in both reducing revenues and cost of goods. So that also helped the margins a little bit for the full year.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. But for the fourth quarter, yes, that's a full year thing, though.  

GARY FAYARD: That was a full year. It actually happened in the fourth quarter of '03, so there is no fourth quarter benefit. There was full-year benefit. But it is primarily Germany and India, actually.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So some of the other company-owned bottlers then helped as well?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Exactly.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Kanter with Prudential.  

JEFF KANTER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Good morning, everyone. Gary, gallons were down 1, is that correct on a reported basis?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay, so when I look at gallons down 1, reported case sales down -- down 3, in the quarter, where -- and then you talk about increased or better performance in North America and North America operating income was up 15 percent, is that where the bulk of the extra gallons shipments were in the quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, in the quarter -- well, first, let me go back to full year and then let me focus on the quarter. If you look at full year, gallons and cases are right in line, up 2 and 2.  

JEFF KANTER: Right.  

GARY FAYARD: But in the quarter itself, there were some -- the gallons were in fact higher than we had anticipated late in the year, that was primarily in North America, and there was some benefit coming through in the quarter from that. And that's part of what I was trying to breakout as part of that -- part of the $0.06, if you will, that we were over was actually because gallons were higher than we had anticipated in North America. Number 1. The second thing that we saw coming through, though, and particularly in North[ph] America, is that we have talked about we've been doing a lot of work trying to get ops down and in fact our run rates in OpEx, we started seeing that reduction reflected in North America and so we had some improvement in OpEx savings as well.  

JEFF KANTER: So just all things being equal, I know you have a lot of innovation in North America slated for 2005, but we should kind of think about that benefit that you got in the fourth quarter kind of take it away out of the first quarter, is that -- ?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, well I think you have to make the decision. I'm not going to give you the guidance. But, we wanted to point it out to you so you could make that decision, so yes.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay. And how are you thinking --  

NEVILLE ISDELL: I think it's fair to say we have a lower cost base going forward for North America.  

GARY FAYARD: We have a lower cost base but the gallons, because they were ahead, you would probably expect some of that to turn around.  

JEFF KANTER: And are you going to -- is that $400 million in incremental spending -- you know, if currencies continue to be favorable, I know you figure that it's going to be relatively flat, but the dollar is all over the place. Would you -- could that go higher if currency -- if currencies give you a greater than expected tail wind in 2005? Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, and in fact, that's what I was trying to say in the prepared remarks, because we will be [Inaudible] all that marketing locally and we have allocated now, we've completed all the planning, we've allocated the amounts by market, and in fact, because it is now allocated and will be spent locally, it will fluctuate with currency. So, you know, if I'm right that there is minimal currency benefit, then it will be about 400. If in fact their currencies do move, the 400 million will also move relative, if you will, to currencies.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay. Thank you.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Can I just add one thing on that incremental marketing which is very important? Some of it is capability building but -- in market and innovation, but most of it is[ph]. We have put in a very disciplined approach to this expenditure. Chuck Fruit has [Inaudible] metrics to measure market by market, that has allocated the money, how they spend it, what the return is over time. Because, you know, what tends -- what could happen is that when people are given a nice increment in terms of their marketing, that they spend it unwisely. We have no intent in doing that.  

That would be absolutely against what we're doing in the operating framework. And therefore, I have worked with Chuck and I have actually presented to the board, and I will keep reporting to the board, not because they've asked for it but because I believe it is appropriate, metrics against how we're spending it and what return we get for[ph] that 400 million. It is going to be very, very well disciplined, I want to assure you of that.  

DON KNAUSS: Jeff, Don. One last comment on North America in terms of efficiencies. Just in addition to the OpEx efficiencies, you will recall in 2003 we combined really the 3 supply chains of North[ph] America, the Minute Maid Company, Food Service and then Bottled Can into one and we're seeing efficiencies because of that. So we had -- we saw the benefit of that in the fourth quarter and the full year as well.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay. Well, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog with Smith Barney.  

BONNIE HERZOG, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Good morning, everyone.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Good morning, Bonnie.  

BONNIE HERZOG: Neville, I guess I have a question for you. I was wondering if you could touch on your thoughts surrounding potential acquisitions, be it big or small, especially in light in the recent merger announcement between P&G and Gillette. Do you expect that this merger will spark more consolidation among consumer staple companies? And if so, what role do you play? In other words are you more open now to diversifying your portfolio?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Well, that is the big question everyone is asking and I have a very clear view about this. First of all, you have to think about the industry that we're in, Bonnie. We're in a great industry, the beverage industry not only satisfies a basic human need, but it is a good high margin business. And it's the business where we have the skills, the knowledge, and the expertise going forward. I have said I like to do job 1, which is, you know, first of all stabilize our beverage business, and then regenerate growth within it. And I don't see that this happened with regard to what is obviously a very good move in terms of Gillette and Procter & Gamble getting together. I don't see that as changing that view. We have a 8 percent share of the total commercial beverage market in the world. We have, you know, a host of opportunities out there to exploit.  

Now, next thing is that I am very clear about the fact that acquisitions are there to build share owner value. I'm not interested in building size. I'm interested in building share owner value. And if you read all the column inches that are being spewed out since the announcement of P&G and Gillette deal, you know, there are a few themes there. There is that there is a great deal more of consolidation that is going to take place. The other is a note of caution, and that is that the track record in terms of acquisitions has not been very good for the majority of companies. So it is not high on my agenda. What is high on my agenda, though, is the type of fill-in acquisitions that we've been doing around the world over the last couple of years, and you've seen those in terms of some of the things we've done with juices, but primarily with the water business. You've seen them in Europe in terms of what we're doing there, to build where we don't have the brands and where it is a shortcut to growth.  

So that is really investing in the business for growth in the way that we have done it in the past. To me, I'm still absolutely focused on getting my own house in order, and ensuring that we've got the skill set to add value to any business that we might acquire. Nothing is forever. You never know what may come up and what may come up. But I have -- we are not focusing on M&A at the moment. To be able to kick up the revenue line without being sure that we can add value back to the share owners. And I think that what we're doing right now in terms of really getting the base business right, kicking growth along for our core business, that's beverages, is the right thing to do for our share owner, that's the focus.  

BONNIE HERZOG: All right. Thank you. That was helpful.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, everybody. Actually, Don, I was wondering if you could talk about shelf space and as you roll out the multiple innovations, when you go in with diet coke with Splenda, does it get you incremental display time and shelf space? Or, you know, is it going in where Diet Coke already is? Do you have to split that? If you could just walk us through that with some of the innovation.  

DON KNAUSS: Yes. Caroline, on all the innovation we have, space is obviously one of the key questions on everybody's mind in the system and with the customers and we're really taking a 3 pronged approach to this. First, much more of a category management sale to our customers, focusing on the GMROI, if you will, the gross margin return on inventory investment that the retailers have, we think we have some of the fastest moving SKUs. And based on the modeling we've done on our innovation, we think there is significant volume upside. So we're going into customers selling for more space. Not only in the traditional gondola but in other parts of the store particularly around the perimeter. Last year we started Treat Yourself Light racking program and that's gaining[ph] momentum.  

So, I think the category management approach is certainly alive and we're getting more sophisticated with how we sell that to customers and again, it is not[ph] looking just at the traditional sections of the store but throughout the center of the store where there is really a need for some revitalization as well as the perimeter. Second, I think the system is getting much more disciplined about eliminating SKUs that do not add significant value. And we clearly know as we bring on new items we are going to have to be more disciplined about that as we move[ph] forward.  

Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda will go into the traditional location[ph] but it will also be peppered around the store in perimeter locations as well. And we will also continue to add those types of perimeter locations across different panels from the convenience store trade, you know, across the supermarket trade, et cetera. So, a much more disciplined approach to category management and a much more disciplined approach to where those SKUs that aren't pulling their weight need to go.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you so much. Gary, I would just like some clarification on the reported earnings of $0.50 and then when you showed the onetime adjustments you get down to $0.46. I just want to be clear, is the 15 percent tax rate in that $0.46?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes.  

CAROLINE LEVY: It is? So if were you to have a normal tax rate that would take you down to 44 if you were at a 25 percent tax rate?  

GARY FAYARD: Right. That's right, Caroline. And let me say on tax, we actually broke taxes in the release into 2 kind of buckets, if you will. In the table that's on page 2 of -- 2 of the release, you will see some tax items. And those are kind of the unusual tax settlements from where we have had some favorable settlement tax products in various countries around the world, et cetera. As well as the impact from the new tax law. So we broke those out separately.  

In addition to those items, our underlying tax rate came in at 24.5 percent versus the 25 percent that we had expected. And that half point, full year, all then flows into the fourth quarter so it's all reflected in the fourth quarter which is driving the rate down significantly for the quarter only. So it is --  

CAROLINE LEVY: Right.  

GARY FAYARD: They're both buckets.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Gary, if I could further clarify, then your $0.03 or $0.04 above consensus on that basis, is that where the currency and the extra shipments and so on come in?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. Exactly right.  

CAROLINE LEVY: But there were no -- actually there was one other thing that was a little unclear, the donation to the Coke Foundation was done in the fourth quarter, it affects the fourth quarter earnings or it was done afterwards?  

GARY FAYARD: It was done in the fourth quarter and there were 2 items, actually. We received a settlement from an insurance companies relative to a lawsuit that we had had in prior years and we -- that settlement was $75 million that we received and then we turned around and donated $75 million then to the Foundation.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Okay. That so much.  

GARY FAYARD: Both of those are in the fourth quarter.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Great, thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Banc of America Securities.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Just a question on revenue management and I'm not sure if it is Don or Neville, who'll want to take it, but you had talked about in November training a significant number of people, I guess, globally on revenue management and I was just curious to know where you are in that process and sounds like you're applying some of that in North America but will we see some other action of that front outside of North America?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Yes, the answer to that is yes. I mean revenue management is probably in the mainstream on all of our plans, country by country. I would say almost around the world, there are some smaller markets where it probably doesn't apply. And of course, it is something we're doing with our bottlers[ph] and this is not something that we're able to do on our own. This effect is a very good example of transferring best practices, of taking some significant new thinking and then working with our bottlers and implementing that in the marketplace. Let' see, we talked about Brazil and Argentina but it is a key part of the plan for North America for '05. It's already being implemented but it is certainly a key part of '05. Don, do you want to add to that at all?  

DON KNAUSS: Yes, thanks, Neville. Brian, as you know, CCE in particular, and our other bottlers, but CCE last year created a much more robust revenue management group under Terry Marks who is now heading up their North American business unit and we are working hand in glove with them providing support to them but also, as Neville [Inaudible] urging best practices, for example we have a number of people from North America, both from the bottling community and from the Company side, going to Argentina, for example, to look at those best practices. So, I think we're starting to get much more leverage off those best practices from around the world and people are much more open-minded to building that capability. And now we have the infrastructure in place to build off of.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay.  

ANN TAYLOR: Operator, we have time for 1 more question.  

OPERATOR: Your final question is from mark Schwartzberg with Legg Mason.  

MARK SWARTZBERG, ANALYST, LEGG MASON: Thanks, operator. Good morning, everyone. Neville, I guess 2 questions, relating to marketing. One a clarification regarding your ability to actually track returns. To be clear, are you saying those mechanisms are now established region by region? And then secondly, as you think about R&D for the Company going forward, you've obviously got a tiger by the tail with Diet here in North America, something you want to aggressively follow. But, in terms of identifying the next Red Bull, the next Starbucks, those, you know, those important new segments, do you continue to think it's better to be an early follower, if you will, rather than trying to be the one to identify or create those new segments looking out?  

NEVILLE ISDELL: Okay, let me clarify on the metrics on the marketing spend. When you say return, you're looking at media, you're going to be looking at softer measures than that, because you know, you can't separate buckets of money, what you can do is look at your brand scores. Your favorite brand and all the other measures that we do. So it is the upticks that we are looking to see in those areas that are important. And again, it is an art, not a science. Because we're looking at better quality of advertising and that's going to affect the brand scores positively as well. But it is actually that type of monitoring that we're doing in terms of media spend. But we're also making sure that it's spent on media, by the way, because that hasn't always been the case. Some simple [Inaudible] as well. Tiger by the tail with Diet, yes, not just in North America but also in Europe.  

Big diet market in Europe. U.K., if you look at the gross trade, Diet was bigger -- is bigger than regular. So it is not just North America. And it is becoming increasingly important even in markets in Asia and Latin America. Not that [Inaudible] yet. To your question about innovation. I think the answer is both. Short answer is both.  

If you look at what we have with Full Throttle, Don mentioned Full Throttle, we think we[ph] have a winner with Full Throttle. We have a winner with Burn in Spain, for example. We have -- we are getting pretty good[ph] leadership there. So those are internally generated. And I think that we have to look at both. We are going to do internally what we got to be able to bring in externally. And [Inaudible] for '06 will start to demonstrate some of the new research that we are doing in order to broaden the view of the category that we're in.  

MARK SWARTZBERG: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the allotted time for questions and answers. I will now turn the call over for closing remarks.  

NEVILLE ISDELL: So I just want to reiterate that I don't believe that we performed to our full potential in 2004. And I think with 2 percent volume growth, it is hard to deny that. Not only is it behind us, but more importantly, I think we have a little bit of momentum going forward, but we have a lot of momentum in terms of what we're doing in terms of the day to day running of the business. 2005 is still not going to be a year though where we're going to judge ourselves by our generation of earnings growth, but really by ensuring that we take the steps that are the right steps to get the foundation in the right place so that we are able to exploit our true potential in the future.  

I hope that with Don's discussion of North America this morning that you see that we're doing just that. And as we move through into the rest of the year, I look forward to keeping you updated on the progress that we're making. I think you will, as we go through the year, see some new initiatives that we haven't [Inaudible] yet for competitive reasons. You will see some things coming out and of course I will be talking in some more detail next week at CAGNY. So, thank you very much for joining us this morning.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050302e12g000md
  


 HD
 Q2  2004 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,225 words
   PD
22 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, this conference is being recorded. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal questions and answer portion of the call. If you would ask a question during this time, simply press star one on your touch tone phone. If you are on a speaker phone, please pick up your telephone handset. To withdraw your question, press star two. Participants will be announced by their name and company name in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Mr.  

   TD
 Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations, who will begin the conference call. Mr. Mark, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK, ASST. VP, DIR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you very much for joining us today. I am pleased to be joined today by several members of our senior leadership team. Specifically, I am here with Neville Isdell, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer, Sandy Allan, President of Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East, Alex Cummings, the President of our Africa group, Don Knauss, the President of our North America group, and Mary Minnick, the president of Asia, and Jose Octavio Reyes, the president of Latin America. Each of our executives will make a few brief comments this afternoon. However, we plan to use most of our time for your questions and answers. So that we can get to as many of your question as possible we could ask that you be considerate of others and limit yourself to one question during your time. Please be respective of these guidelines.  

Before we get started I would like to remind earn that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning the long term earnings objectives and they should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement contained in our earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's most recent Form 10(K). In addition I would also like to call to your attention the fact that we posted schedules to our Company website at Coca-Cola.com in the Investor section which reconcile our results as they are reported under generally accepted accounting principals to certain nonGAAP measures which may be referenced by our senior executives in our discussions this afternoon and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. We ask you to please look at our website for this information. With that I would like to turn the call over to Neville.  

NEVILLE ISDELL, CHAIRMAN, CEO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Larry. It really as a great pleasure for me to join you today. I've stated many times over the last several weeks that it really is the honor of a lifetime to be working as Chairman and CEO of Coca-Cola Company. Particularly I am really thrilled at the warm welcome that I received as I returned from retirement Company that I love. It's a great Company with a great history but I think most importantly a very bright future. In my new role I look forward to many conversations with you as I plan to take an active dialogue -- take up an active dialogue with the investment commune in the in the near future.  

Let me just tell you over the last six weeks that my priority has been to really totally immerse myself that the details of our business. Getting up to date on our opportunities, on our challenges, our strengths, and also the areas where we need to do better. Some of you may know when I began on June 1, I said I was going to take 120 days to do this, to listen and to understand. I'm still isn't the process of doing this. I am going to be doing the listening over the 120 days of listening to employees, to customers, consumers, and, of course, to our bottling partners.  

At this juncture I want to tell you that my initial review it's pretty clear to me that our system remains appropriately focused on enhancing it's revenue growth capabilities. In some markets we are doing an excellent job of capturing the value of our brand in a way that really does maximize profitability for both our system and our customers. And in other markets as you would expect, there's still some work to be done.  

Our system is also committed quite rightly to having the strongest beverage brands in the world. We currently do have the best brands. But to keep them strong we recognize that we have to continuously challenge ourselves and to find new and innovative ways of satisfying more consumers, most importantly in today's environment, maintaining the relevance of our brand. I do believe that we have begun to build a solid foundation that will deliver sustainable, profitable growth. But as would you expect, we do have opportunities for improvement.  

Today's results really reflect the fact that we are delivering solid results in many markets, but also, and you will see this from people runs the businesses, we do have challenging conditions in several key countries. Today you are going to here from our operators and how we are really focused on not only improving our short term performance but also doing the right things for the long-term, strengthening the long-term capabilities of our system in all the key markets around the world.  

Before I turn the discussions over to our operators I am going to ask a special request because I told you earlier about my 120 days and the fact that I was going to listen and learn from all our key constituencies over that time. I want to hold to that. What I wanted to today is actually to sit in and listen to you, our investors. So consistent with this approach, and I'm taking this with all the communities in which I am listening to, I do not intend to answer any questions today. I am here to listen to you and see what you are most interested in, in terms of our operating results and our future going forward.  

I know that we are going to have many opportunities in the future for good conversation. A number of you there are people that I know well. To talk about our strategies and what I think is a great future ahead for Coca-Cola Company. So I appreciate your respect with regard to this request and with that said, I want to turn the call over to our senior officers for further comments and they, of course, are going to handle the Q&A. So I'd like to start with the operators and be followed by a financial overview. Let me first turn it over to the head of Europe, Sandy Allan.  

SANDY ALLAN, PRESIDENT OF EUROPE, EURASIA AND MIDDLE EAST, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Neville, and good afternoon, everybody. Within the Europe, Eurasia and Middle East group, we had a very challenging quarter that came in softer than our internal business plan both in terms of profit and especially in terms of volume. Even though below plan, we remain committed to our strategy of system revenue growth, of focusing on our core brands with an emphasis on profitable, immediate consumption and especially on lite products as well as our continued expansion new profitable new beverages.  

In terms of the second quarter, unit case volumes declined by 2%, cycling prior year growth of 7%, and this can be attributed to 3 primary factors: First, poor weather condition across Europe, both northern and southern, but particular in northern Europe through out the second quarter. Secondly, the revival of hard discounters in Germany for carbonated soft drinks and, third, pricing initiatives taken in Great Britain and France.  

First let me address the weather. Western Europe, where we make 80% of our profit, is a relatively small geographical area. If it rains, and there is no sun in one area, it typically rains and there is no sun everywhere. We had budgeted for reasonable weather this year, knowing that the record-setting hot temperatures from last year would be a challenge to cycle. However, we did not budget for weather that has been consistently rainy and on average 8 degrees Celsius, or around 14 degrees Fahrenheit cooler than last year. Given that away from home beverage sales in Europe are strongly impacted by weather patterns this has adversely affected our performance.  

Second, the group's performance was very much impacted by Germany where our volumes declined 15% in the quarter. The entire beverage industry was negatively impacted by poor weather conditions within an already challenging economic environment. However, the most important factor impacting us was the strong growth in the hard discounted channel. Within this channel our brands have had almost no availability since the imposition last year of mandated redeposit legislation.  

Let me put the hard discounted and mandated deposits into perspective. Last year, 2003, the first year of mandated redeposit legislation, we lost 60 million unit cases, or 10% of our total German volume when cans and half leader nonrefillable PTE bottles essentially went away. Yet when you look at our total volume for the last year, we finished flat for the full year. This would you achieved because are consumers shifted to buying from carbonated beverages in refillable packages from us from nondiscounted channels. They did this because hard discounters discontinued offering nonrefillable packaging because their logistics did not allow them to economically provide consumers with a convenient way to receive a refund for their mandated redeposit they had paid.  

In 2004 discounters have in fact come up with a solution to dealing with the logistics and refund issues caused by the legislation. Each hard discounter introduced their own individual island solution. That means the contract build their own private label brands in their own shaped PET bolts and these consumers can return these bottles for deposit refund at any branch of that discounter. The islands solution is anti-competitive and illegal under EU law. We do not believe it is right for our brands to allow them to be contract filled in someone else's bottle shape.  

In contrast to our strategy, our primary multinational competitor has entered into the deep discounted channel by allowing their products to be sold in the discounters own private label bottles. In many of these instances they are shipping concentrate to a third party for manufacturing and distribution. As I said, this is not an acceptable solution for our brand.  

So far our strategy has been to focus on all the other retail channels which have stronger profit characteristics. In all these channels our carbonated soft drink share has increased. However, because discounters are increasing in significance, representing approximately 38% of the carbonated soft drink market at the end of the second quarter, we continue to look for a solution which would allow our brands to be present in these outlets. We are currently negotiating ways of reentering discounters without using their bottles and, very importantly, without compromising our profitability in the other channels.  

The good news in Germany is that our profits both at the division and the bottling operations, are growing on a year to date basis. This is true even as the benefits of currency are excluded. As we have seen positive results from the streamlining initiatives completed in 2003. Obviously we would like to see higher growth in Germany so that the success we are seeing in other regions comes through even more strongly at the group level.  

And the third factor negatively impacting the group's volume was the pricing initiatives of our bottling partner in Great Britain and France. As pricing initiatives were implemented, we found that the pricing and promotional practices of our primary competitors led to a volume share decline in the quarter. This is a matter we are currently reviewing together with our bottling partner, and we will make appropriate adjustments in the back half of the year. Our fundamental strategy is to progressively improve the profitability of the entire Coca-Cola system, and this will be done buy balancing price and volume.  

As we look to the third quarter we are well aware of the difficult comparisons for both volume and profit which we face in cycling the record-setting temperatures from last summer. [INAUDIBLE] indicators have recently improved based on our involvement in Euro 2004 soccer. Euro 2004 was the first of two major marketing events for us in Europe this summer. We are now activating the Olympics across all major markets. We had some short term challenges in the quarter, but the fundamentals of our business in Europe are very strong as we have consistently demonstrated by our ability to deliver double-digit profit growth over the last several years. These fundamentals have not changed and they will continue to drive our results going forward. I would like to turn thing over to Mary to discuss Asia.  

MARY MINNICK, PRESIDENT, ASIA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Sandy, and good afternoon, everyone. In Asia we remain on track in the implementation of our 2004 strategic plan with quarterly volume growth of 4% and year to date volume growth of 2%. Reported profit is up double digits in both the current quarter and year to date. In the second quarter, Asia generated strong profitable volume growth in strategically important markets such as Japan, China and Australia, while simultaneously implementing important price increases that are temporarily impacting unit case volumes in markets such as the Philippines and Thailand, and we also reduced our focus on less profitable packages such as bulk water in Indonesia.  

We are especially pleased to see our strategies working in Japan with 4% volume growth in the quarter and strong profit growth. We remain committed to the four key strategies in Japan. One, enhance our performance in supermarkets with the new packages, prices and merchandising we talked about; creating new profit generators by revitalizing vending and launching high margin new product; three, accelerating procurement and manufacturing savings through the new supply chain management company; and, finally, keeping core brands healthy. Against each of these core strategies we made good progress in the second quarter. Our volume in supermarkets grew by 8%, driven by 500 MLPT multipacks and the new one liter expansion, while system gross profit per case on large PET packages improved.  

Full service vending volumes increased 7% behind the introduction of new product, resealable package expansion and enhanced machine placement. The Coca-Cola National Sales Beverage Company is holding to its upward estimate revisions in cost savings of 110 million in 2004, and volume growth in Japan was driven by 6% growth in trademark Coke and double-digit increases in SOKABECHA, MAROCHA and Aquarius, partially offset by volume softness in COU and an industry slow down in the coffee sector particularly in PET packages. Our introduction of Coca-Cola C2 on June 7th was our largest ever brand launch in Japan and was extremely successful in revitalizing trademark Coke sales and growing our cola category share. Sales were particularly strong in the highly profitable vending channels with trademark Coke growth of 21% in the quarter. Looking ahead early indications are that C2 will continue to help drive business results with strong consumer awareness and repeat purchase scores.  

All of these initiatives are part of a strong investment commitment which is being shared equally by our Company and our bottling partners. We are jointly investing in key price, package and channel initiatives to strengthen our system in Japan and lay the groundwork for our future competitiveness in this critical market. Year to date, we are growing volume share in the highly profitable category of carbonated soft drinks, canned coffee and sports drinks. Having said that our emphasis will remain on profitable volume growth.  

Across the rest of Asia we are also driving profitable growth through innovation, price realization, pure top line CSE growth and by selectively accelerating our expansion into profitable non-carbonated beverage categories. Specifically we are investing in China to deliver both short term results and to strengthen our position for the long-term. Total unit case volume increased 37% in the second quarter with carbonated soft drinks growing at 31%. To significantly increase our CSD share position. Our affordability strategy on Coke continues to pay out with packages sold at one R. and B. driving almost one quarter of incremental immediate consumption transactions in China. Non-carbonated beverages grew at 60 percent, driven by continued strong performance on COO and launchings Nestea Ice Rush and MinuteMaid Pulpy Orange.  

Another of our strategies across Asia is accelerate total system profitability through disciplined implementation of the right revenue growth management strategies for each local market. In the Philippines our objectives are aligned with our bottler strategy of driving profit growth through margin expansion. Second quarter volume declines of 15% reflect the impact of the price increases taken late last year, which was the first price increase in three years. Once we cycle this price increase we are expecting volume growth to return driven by marketing and improvement in dealer credit terms and continued strengthening of our sales and distribution systems. Indonesia is another market where we are having a short term impact on volume growth as we reemphasize various large format package within the water category to accomplish supply chain savings. However, CSD's in Indonesia are growing 15% and our Fresh Tea brands is growing 75%.  

Briefly, the only other market which I would like to comment on specifically is India. We experienced single-digit volume growth in the second quarter as the onset of early monsoons in June limited our ability to cycle the strong 33% growth from the prior year. Consumers continue to respond positively, however, to our affordability strategy with strong growth in immediate consumption packages resulting in CSD share gains of 2 points year to date through May. In conclusion we are pleased with our performance in Asia and encouraged by the trends which we saw in the second quarter. Now I'd like to turn things over to Don Knauss for a discussion on North America.  

DON KNAUSS, PRESIDENT, NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Mary, good afternoon, everyone. The year so far North America is really progressing well. We are on track to deliver our plan for the year which is really based on the four premises driving system profitability through a focus on profitable growth in both carbonated and non-carbonated beverages and creating more value for our customers as well.  

During the quarter our overall profits remained solid, our total unit cases grew 2%. This unit case growth was led by 4% growth in the foodservice and hospitality division and benefitting from really strong customized customer programs but improving restaurant traffic as well. Unit cases in our retail business units grew over 1%, cycling a strong 5% growth in the from the second quarter of last year.  

First I'd like to discuss our bottler delivered CSD brands which had their hardest comps in the first half. CSD volumes were affected in the second quarter by the strong pricing that I think you've all seen out in the market and rainy market cross many heart land markets in June. That weather really impacted us across the southern corridor as well as the state of Texas.  

From a strategic standpoint, we fully agree with the focus on value and we are closely aligned with our bottling partners as they focus on growing retail dollar share. In fact so far the system is achieving very strong revenue growth based on both package and pricing initiatives. Standard data through May is indicating that about 15% of the price realization is occurring through improvements and package and channel mix and the remaining 85% is occurring through rate increases. Now, even though these rate increases affect short term volumes and share, these initiatives are making our system and our industry much stronger as we continue to shift the focus towards maximizing total retail dollars and as Sandy said, trying to get a better balance between pricing and volume. In the second half of this year, we expect to improve our share position as we balance volume price realization and package mix. Some of the highlights of the CSD category include excellent growth in Diet Coke, trademark grew by 7% in the quarter, we are also benefitting from new brands such as C2, Diet Coke with lime and Sprite Berry Remix, and packages such as the smaller single serve PET bottles and the 12-ounce PET fridge pack.  

Before I move off of CSD's I would like to give you an initial read on Coca-Cola C2. Now the launch of Coca-Cola C2 is delivering against our objective of meeting what we believe is a fundamental consumer need while enhancing system margins, not to mention our customer's margins. From both a consumer standpoint and from a customer standpoint we have some favorable measures to report. Now, we've been in this launch not quite six weeks and after only a few weeks in the market here's what's happening with the consumer. At least we consider these brand health metrics to be very strong. We've achieved over 80% awareness. Trial is running close to 30% and that's ahead of our plan. And the repeat is running above 40%, and is on plan.  

We've also gotten some very favorable feedback from our customers on execution. I'd like to share some of those comments from one of our largest customers. In this customer we achieved 99% all commodity volume distribution in one day. Over 200,500 stores sampled pulled Coca-Cola C2 within the first 36 hours of availability covering almost 1.3 million shoppers in the first weekend. And a very well-balanced mix across three package types with all three profitable at profitable margins for the customer. This customer is quoted as saying to their field force, Coca-Cola C2 is living up to its promise of being a profitable revenue enhancer with the CSD category. Those are the kind of comments we expect to here from more customers as we move this launch forward.  

Now that's some of the good news. I also would like to say that we see some opportunities for improvement. In many retailers, we had the opportunity to enhance the execution of our pricing strategy. As the price premium for Coca-Cola C2 has been well above the 15% target range, that was a 15% target range per can. As was particularly true during the recent holiday period when we went out and launched the unique 8 pack while retailers were investing behind 12 packs behind the 4th of July holiday to drive traffic, we had plans in place right now to increase the velocity crosses all packages. Based on a very large customer data we've seen that when Coca-Cola C2 is priced correctly the velocity can be very favorable. In fact, in the customers where we've seen the premium in the 15 to 20% range, we are doubling our velocity target that we sent. We expect to get 10% of the velocity of Classic, and in those customers we are getting 20% of the mix of Classic. So very successful there. So that's where we stand with Coca-Cola C2. We are going to be watching the actions of our competitor very closely, but let me assure you that we are not going to get pulled into a volume only game. Our intension is to profitably enhance revenue within the CSD category and we feel that Coca-Cola C2 will be a strong contributor to that strategy.  

With that let me move on to a few other highlights for the quarter. Our hydration duration brands are performing very well. Power Ade grew 24% in the second quarter and gained almost a share point on a year to date basis. Dasani grew 12% in the second quarter while maintaining its 36% price premium to the water category in supermarkets. The [INAUDIBLE] brands despite aggressive discounting by competitors. And we are remaining disciplined in our pricing architecture such that Denone is appropriately positioned within the category.  

Moving to juices, our warehouse delivered juices grew by 4%, gaining share despite continued weakness in the category. Brands which outperformed the category included Simply Orange, MinuteMaid Premium Heart wise and Hi-C Blast. Also the bottler delivered minimum brands of refreshment brand grew by 18% in the quarter helped by introduction of new lite flavors.  

To wrap up in North America I would reiterate we are on plan to deliver results for the year and to remain focused on pursuing a system value strategy. All of our actions are aligned to make that happen. With that let me turn thing over to upon Poncho to review Latin America.  

JOSE REYES, PRESIDENT, LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Don, and good afternoon again. This quarter in Latin America we continued delivering on our profit plan with high single-digit operating income growth. Per unit case sales are less than what we were planning. Operating income by the way has been impacted by negative currency trends but overall very, very solid numbers on the profit side. Throughout the region, and this is true in every geography, we continue to execute our long-term investment strategy with an emphasis on brand building, new package alternatives and close coordinations with our bottlers to drive superior local marketplace execution. As I said in terms of unit case volume, it was not as strong as we would liked it. We had good growth in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Venezuela, almost everywhere but we had a decline of 3% in Mexico. So let me tell you a little bit about what went on in Mexico.  

In a tough second quarter in Mexico really not from a competitive perspective. The problem for us there was the terrible weather in the month of May, specifically. Overall volumes for May were down double digits and didn't really return to normal levels until we are two weeks into June. Furthermore for us the competitors versus a year ago were affected by our strategic decision to deemphasize large format packages in the water category, the 20 liter jugs.  

Having said all that our business remains strong. In fact during the quarter we saw increases in our share of the carbonated soft drink market with our share position in May better than April and April better than March so the trends is moving in the right direction. From a strategic point of view our focus is in four initiatives, number one, maintaining the price architecture, number two, accelerate personal consumption packages, number three, sharpening our competitive plan and, finally, enhancing innovation to strengthen preference for our brand. Overall, the Mexican market remains dynamic, but I am confident we are doing the right thing, the right thing to secure the long-term volume and profit base we have in Mexica .  

Let's move over to Brazil where we are seeing a real turnaround story. Last year you may recall this, we started taking significant steps to enhance our business model. Specifically we improved our relationship with our bottlers. We deployed a consumer led brand package price channel architecture. And we began to systematically upgrade our execution in the marketplace. We are now seeing the benefits, the results of that work.  

Specifically in the second quarter overall unit case volume growth was 7%, led by trademark Coca-Cola growing 9%. The single serve refillable packages because the [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] channel to grow by 20% and as you know those packages and those channels are most profitable in their and therefore the revenues increased by over 30% and operating income increased by over 100%. Very importantly our system profitability is also more than doubled in the quarter. So by emphasizing packages and channels with higher profitability we are improving our system economics. While at the same time increasing or share of CSDs carbonated soft drinks in both volume and value, both volume and in retail dollar terms. We are also reducing our dependence on the 2 liter package and large format channels which in Brazil has less favorable profitable activities.  

Within the hyper and supermarket channel our mix of [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] packages has grown to 21% year to date. That compares to about only 10% last year. This package price and channel strategy explains the large part of the significant profit growing our system experienced. We are very pleased with the results that we are seeing in Brazil and are optimistic that we will see continued success in creating value for our system.  

Argentina, another example of how our focus on building brand for the long term pays off, [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] in Argentina are growing 14%, cycling 18% growth from the prior year. And the growth is coming from one [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] with trademark Coca-Cola increasing 11% and core brands driving over 80% of the growth. We are pleased with the execution in Argentina, however, we continue to see opportunities to enhance our revenue growth management and segmentation capability. There are always opportunities to better meet the needs of our consumers.  

So in summary we continue to be on the right track in Latin America. [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] in place and sometimes when forcing the right strategies for long-term value creation. With that and my thanks let me turn things over to Alex  

ALEXANDER CUMMINGS, PRESIDENT, AFRICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks and good afternoon. The Africa group delivered strong double-digit operating profit growth in the second quarter, led by a combination of selective price increases and by focusing on higher profit products and packages. Unit case volume in the quarter increased 2% led by solid results in South Africa, Morocco, Kenya and Tunisia , This success was partially offset by continued weakness in Zimbabwe and emphasis on less profitable water packages in Nigeria. Core brands performed well with trademark Coke up 4 percent, Fanta up 6% and Sprite up 5% in the quarter. Trademark Coke was driven by double-digit growth in Morocco and Kenya as well as strong performance in South Africa where we took a planned price increase.  

By increases prices in South Africa slightly ahead of inflation we managed to grow system revenue by balancing price and volume. In South Africa we had unit case growth of 3% in the second quarter. And 4% year to date. Initiatives of this type are leading to steadily increasing system profits across Africa. Egypt is another market where system profitability is increasing due to price increases and cost savings initiatives.  

Additionally we continue to effectively execute our strategy to selectively broaden into other beverage categories. For example, we've introduced two new [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] brands in Morocco [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT] and we continue to roll-out Dasani in Kenya and Ghana. Further indications from consumers are very positive. Zimbabwe continues to report volume declines due to major socio economic issues. Maintain visibility within this market while awaiting improved economic.  

Performance in Nigeria, our second largest market was impacted by a national strike and civil unrest as well as decline in less profitable water packages. However, our share position within carbonated soft drinks remains stable.  

In Africa we continue to focus on the fundamentals of our business which include product availability and cold outlet creation, affordability and revenue growth management and brand preference. With consistent execution of these fundamentals we will show sustainable profitable growth over time. Now I would like to turn the call over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Alex. I would like to spend a few minutes going through the highlights from our release before going to your questions. Reported earnings per share increased to 65 cents in the quarter, 18% higher than the prior year first quarter earnings of 55 cents. On a year to date basis we increased earnings per share 25% to $1.11. If we exclude some unusual items from the current year and last year, earnings per share increased 12% in the quarter and 17% on a year to date basis.  

Reported operating income for the quarter increased 13% to $1.8 billion and on a year to date basis we grew operating income to 3.3 billion, an increase of 22%. Again if you exclude unusual items from this year and last year, operating income increased 13% and 17% year to date. As you heard from our operators this growth in the quarter reflected solid performance in many key markets around the world including North America and Japan. Partially offset by difficult operating environment in Germany, poor weather in Europe and Mexico and higher corporate expenses.  

Currency also positively impacted operating income by approximately 6% in the quarter and on a year to date basis our ongoing operating income increased 17% which included approximately nine points of currency benefit, thus reflecting a currency neutral operating income growth rate of 8%. On a currency neutral basis these operating income trends are below our long-term expectations and as you heard from our operators we're clearly focused on taking steps that will strengthen our ability to deliver more sustainable and profitable volume growth.  

Regarding our reported earnings per share there are several items that impacted the comparability of our results on a year over year basis. The net effect of these items was a benefit in the current quarter result in the amount of 1.5 cents per share. Individual items included first a $41 million tax benefit related to the reversal of previously accrued taxes because of a favorable agreement with tax authorities. Second, equity income benefited by $37 million pretax in the quarter because of a favorable tax settlement at Coca-Cola [INAUDIBLE] . Third we had a gain of 39 million pretax that resulted from there issuance of stock by Coca-Cola Enterprises because the stock issuance of CCE resulted in a slight decline in our ownership of CCE to 36 percent, we are required to record a non-cash gain. Lastly offsetting these gains was a charge of 88 million pretax related primarily to the write down of various manufacturing investments. So that you can clearly see the impact of these items on our financials we posted a reconciliation schedule on our website.  

Let me summarize cash-flow. During the first six months of the year our cash from operations increased 39% to $3 billion, as compared to 2.1 billion in the first 6 months of last year. Our cash flows remain extremely strong and I expect them to continue well into the future. As a partial use of this cash we expect to continue with our strong dividends and we expect to be aggressive buyers of our shares. So far this year we have bought $966 million worth of our stock and we still plan to repurchase at least $2 billion of stock for the full year.  

Before we move to Q&A I want to mention a few other factors related to the back half of the year. First on gallon shipments, in the first six-month of this year gallon shipments have increased 5% which is consistent with the reported unit case growth during the same period. As we had previously discussed this amount benefited from increased shipping days in the first quarter and this will be offset by fewer shipping days in the fourth quarter of this year. These fewer shipping days in the fourth quarter mean that we expect gallons to grow at a slower rate in the second half of the year.  

Second, currencies, as I've already mentioned we had a very nice currency benefit in the first half of the year. Based on our current projections and based on the timing of the currency trends last year, I expect that our currency benefits will be substantially less than in the second half of the year as compared to what we saw in the first half. In addition with the strong currency benefits we received so far this year, we will be investing back at least 2 cents per share of this upside in the market behind the launch of Coca-Cola C2 and in selected markets where the competitive landscape is very challenging. Third, taxes, I expect that our effective tax rate of underlying operations will be approximately 25% for the remainder of the year.  

So to sum up, we had a solid performance in many key markets during the quarter. We also had a number of challenges that caused our results to be a little weaker than we prefer. In all of these situations we are diligently modifying our plans and strategies to strengthen our ability to deliver more sustainable and profitable volume growth. As we move to your questions I would like to reiterate the request that Neville made earlier and ask you to please direct your questions to me, or the operators here with me. And with that said, operator, if we can move to the first question. Operator?  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Our first question comes from Andrew Conway with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CSFB: Kind of a strategic question on your price value strategy globally. First in focusing a little bit on North America, let's say as one market, and the U.K. as another, maybe North America bottle/can, do you think that in focusing with your system on price mix that perhaps there is a little bit more elasticity creep into these markets as you've employed the strategy and you begin to learn how to balance price and volume going forward? And then a second part of that has to do with the need to fine-tune your strategy with either incremental DME. And then if you could also share your comments on the incremental two cents in the back half in terms of is it in addition to your existing plan and roughly how you will spend it.  

DON KNAUSS: Andrew, it's Don for North America. I don't think that it's elasticity creep. I think we understand our elasticities well. I think what's going on in the first half we had a plan to drive about a 2.5% increase in debt net N. S. I. We are getting a little bit north of that and I think the volume impact of that is precisely where we thought it would be without elasticity modeling. I also think part of it is the tougher comps we had in the first half as well as the weather. It's not simply one thing that does this, that does anything to volume. It's always a combination of events.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Sure.  

DON KNAUSS: I do think we understand the he will last elasticities fine and I think we are a limit north on pricing and we are not through with summer yet and as we move through Labor Day holiday we intend to get more investment in pricing and it will get back to closer to equilibrium and get closer to plan.  

SANDY ALLAN: As far as the U.K. is concerned it's a very similar situation to North America. I think our bottler in the U.K. got a little bit ahead of themselves as far as pricing was concerned and we ended up by raising prices effectively at the retail level by almost 6%. And that's had an adverse volume effect. So to your point, we do understand the elasticity and our bottler as well, and that's why I said that we will be making adjustments in the second half year to correct that situation.  

GARY FAYARD: Andrew, it's Gary, addressing the 2 cent currency that we are reinvesting in the market, it actually part of that is actually reflected in the second quarter and will be reflected through second, third and fourth quarter, so the remainder of the year and it really is around marketing that we put in behind the C2 launch as well as in some other markets where there were competitive or other situations that put some into Mexico as well. But we will be spending that across the remainder of the year. You can see probably in our P&L this quarter that we in fact had a very nice investment behind our brands even in this quarter which is one of the reasons you are not seeing probably quite as much leverage that you would have expected to see.  

ANDREW CONWAY: And, Gary, in terms of that leverage as we move second half of the year and into '05, how would you characterize the levels of leverage the back half of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: We are continuing to stay focused, very focused in fact on the challenges that we are seeing and getting the leverage. But at the same time investment behind the brands long-term. And then you are also seeing some of the challenges that we've had in Germany as well. But I'd say, Andrew, when we got a really good opportunity of a great new brand and we also have the opportunity of some of the currency benefits that came through stronger than we had planned, we did the right thing long-term for the brand and the brand trust.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jeff Kanter with Prudential.  

JEFF KANTER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Good afternoon and evening, gentlemen. Gary, quick question for you, can you just bridge for us, please,? Thanks for taking my call. Can you bridge for us, please, the gallon shipments to the net revenue line? I know there's a lot of moving parts there.  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, Jeff, I'd be happy to. Let me give it a shot and then come back if I don't answer it totally. But if you take the 5% gallon increase and then add to that there were probably about four points of positive currency as well, that gets you up to nine. Then there was five points negative of structural and that structural is really the Japan tea company and when we franchise tea in the fourth quarter of last year, it's a negative five points at revenue but takes an equivalent dollar amount out of cost of sales as well. And then you've got about a point positive in pricing and country mix. Probably more than that in pricing but there's a negative mix really because of the issues in Germany. And that gets you to the five reported of revenue.  

JEFF KANTER: Okay.  

GARY FAYARD: You can see the impact of the structural when you look at, then look at gross profit, the structure impacting gross profit and it comes back.  

JEFF KANTER: You said that corporate expenses were up. I know we are a little early for the 10(Q) but can you give us a sense of what segment operating income was up here in the quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Really we can't go into the segment information right now. We will be filing the Q next week and can get that but on the corporate expenses there were a couple of thing that were up there. One of those is insurance is just up and that's your general product liability, D. and O. And all of the insurance lines were up. And that's going to be a full year kind of thing and something I think all companies are having to deal with. As well as we had about $10 million of higher legal expenses than we expected just from several different areas in corporate legal.  

JEFF KANTER: Just last question, marketing expenses you said were up nicely in the quarter. Was that greater than gallon shipments? What does nicely mean?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, yes, marketing was up significantly more than gallon shipments.  

DON KNAUSS: I will take the hard numbers on that, Jeff, and give you a call later?  

JEFF KANTER: Wonderful, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Faucher with JP Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good afternoon and evening, everyone. And Mary. I was wondering, Sandy, could you give me a bit of an idea as we look to the balance of the year what the rate of change would be in Europe? Should Europe get better in the third quarter or given the tougher comps you are expecting it to remain approximately the same? Thank you.  

SANDY ALLAN: Well, John, as I said earlier we are very conscious of the recycling from the third quarter last year. And I think the other unknown is the weather. And what I need mean to say is that the weather in July in northern Europe has not improved. And as I tried to explain before, weather is very important to us that we get our summer. So we are cycling 9% growth last year. So it is a heavy challenge for us. We have some very excellent and aggressive marketing programs. We do expect to be more competitive on price. So at the end of the day it's really down to, if the weather is going to be a little bit kinder to us then I think we will do quite well. If it isn't, then I think we will have a little bit more of the same.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Specifically in looking at Germany and that situation, is this something where you have to look at the negative next couple of quarters? How long will it take to get your hand around it do you think?  

GARY FAYARD: Could you repeat the question? It's hard to heard you. If we heard you right it was specifically on Germany, how long it will take to cycle through the comps? Or does that include the discounters?  

JOHN FAUCHER: Yes.  

SANDY ALLAN: I mean, it's, it will be next year before we cycle through the comps for the hard discounters.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Our next comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question is on the revenue management strategies that you've been executing is there any, as you look at it you are not getting leverage in the P&L. Year to date, the bottlers are getting nice pricing around the world, but your price excluding the mix is up two points or so and if you look at a market like North America, CC is experimenting with different package sizes, you mentioned tweaking the prices on C2, you have the value strategy in water, are you still a trying to get the right balance in the overall system and try to get some leverage in your P&L while the system executes this revenue strategy?  

SANDY ALLAN: Yeah, Bill, it's Sandy. We certainly in Europe we continue to get leverage. Even though we are negative in volume for the second quarter we are still significantly positive in operating income. We are still significantly positive in operating income. So and that's the same situation as we've had for the last two years. So certain until Europe we are getting leverage.  

GARY FAYARD: And Bill, I guess year to date as well if you look at gallons up five, our currency neutral operating income above eight, so we are getting three points leverage so I think we are getting that as we continue to refine and work closely with the bottlers around the world.  

BILL PECORIELLO: But on the revenue line because you are getting some pricing on that so the spread between the revenue and the operating profit?  

DON KNAUSS: Bill, on a year to date basis I think we are getting about two-point spread on price mix. Keep in mind there is a structural change. The year to date basis, we are getting about two points of price and mix on a revenue for year to date.  

BILL PECORIELLO: And just in North America on the revenue management as CC is experimenting with some new package sizes in the C2 and you are looking at your water business where you are pursuing the value strategy but losing share, are there any tweak that you are looking in any of those aspects of revenue management North America?  

DON KNAUSS: I think we are planning on staying the course, Bill. If you look at our P&L we are getting leverage from the net revenue line to gross profit certainly on marketing investment is up versus prior year. If you look at the translation into operating income. But the primary thing we will look at in the back half of the year is getting C2 right. And getting the pricing right there. If we get the pricing right in C2 it looks to us like we will hit or exceed the volume we are expecting from C2 and we will get leverage out of that.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with UBS. Your line is open, you may ask your question.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS: It's Caroline. I want to clarify two things, shipments were up, were your gallon shipments in the quarter up five or just year to date.  

GARY FAYARD: Caroline, it's Gary, the cases were up one, gallons were up five in the quarter. On a year to date basis reported unit cases are up five and gallons are up five. And perhaps the confusing part is that as reported our actual unit cases versus average daily sales, average cases, is the difference. But on a reported basis, actual numbers of cases year to date is up five and gallons are up five, right in line.  

CAROLINE LEVY: So there should be no adjustments in the third quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Correct, correct. The only adjustment comes in the fourth quarter where there's few days to ship from quarter one to quarter four.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Okay. And can we talk a little bit about Latin America? And Mexico in particular, and just I would love to hear your view on what the outlook is for tea brands, market share and where the whether Pepsi has changed the case of the face of the competitive environment at all?  

ALEXANDER CUMMINGS: What is the outlook for tea brands?  

GARY FAYARD: The outlook for the competitive landscape in the tea brands changed the competitive landscape in Mexico, Caroline?  

CAROLINE LEVY: Yes, that's it.  

JOSE REYES: Okay. The landscape, the competitive landscape isn't Mexico as we have discussed before has always been very dynamic and very competitive. The situation in this year in particular would be with the tea brands is not different from what we have experienced in the previous year. In fact we see their share as being at around 2 to 3% and that hasn't changed in this year. The case of Pepsi, they have been following a strategy of upsizing and low price of 2.5-liters -- 2.5 liters at a significant discount and that coupled with a , not necessarily the most profitable volume but doesn't give them volume in [INAUDIBLE--STRONG ACCENT.] So our position in Mexico in terms of physical cases, in terms of transactions, continues to be very strong and we continue to be that way, that's what we are seeing as an outlook for the remainder of the year. We have done, as you know, several things in terms of packaging with 400 M. L.s, 710 M. L., 2.5-liter, and a number of packaging initiatives to have a consumer proposal at every price point that is principal for the consumer from three to ten . We are very, very confident of the outlook in Mexico and we continue to believe that we will remain in a very strong competitive position.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.  

JOSE REYES: Thank you, Caroline.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Greenburg with Deutsche Bank. Mr. Greenburg, your line is open. You may ask your question at this time. Our next question comes from Kristen Marcus with Merrill Lynch.  

KRISTEN MARCUS (ph), ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much, good afternoon. My question is for Don, firstly your C2 volumes are they included in diet trademark volumes and secondly we heard profit growth in all regions except for North America, can you comment what margin list and I would like your comments on mix with the exception of America in the quarter? Thank you.  

DON KNAUSS: On the first part of the question, we are including C2 volumes in the sugar side, not the diet side. I can't quite get the second part of the question.  

KRISTEN MARCUS (ph): With respect to the profit growth in North America, what kind of growth did you experience in the second quarter within that region and what did mix contribute to that?  

DON KNAUSS: The profit growth was in the upper middle single digits which was consistent with our plan. Okay.  

KRISTEN MARCUS (ph): And with respect to mix, can you comment on water contributions of shift to noncarbs.  

DON KNAUSS: Well, our noncarbs were growing at 9% in the quarter, the CSDs were flat, flat tissue, so that continues to be, flattish, basically on plan with where we had forecasted for the quarter. So the mix is basically right where we thought it would be.  

KRISTEN MARCUS (ph): Great. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Alec Patterson with RCM.  

ALEX PATTERSON (ph), ANALYST, RCM: Good afternoon. I know that, Neville, you are in a listen-only mode and all that, but I think as this is really an opportunity for you to here points of view from the buy side as well as the sell-side and the sell-side sometimes finds some issues a little delicate but I want you to understand that we find the recent history with Coca-Cola and the board kind of a trying experience, and we hope in the future he you will be able to a at least address some emphasis how we are going to have a re-established dialogue with the investment community and you as the spokesperson and not have a feeling that there's a secondary management team behind closed doors. So forgive me but I felt like you you are in a listen-only mode and I thought this is something you should here. Secondly, if I could ask Gary, on the SG&A, up 8 percent, that would be excluding hedge gains up 10%?  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, Alec, well, first, on the first comment I will speak for Neville this one and only time and say that he is very committed as we all are to continue a very active dialogue with the investment community and later this fall would expect to start doing that after he's completed the his review. With that said the SG&A up 8% does have some currency impact inside of it, about three-point of the increase in SG&A is because of currency. And that's kind of the impact on the expense line.  

ALEX PATTERSON (ph): I'm sorry, you are saying the 8% reported, if you were to back out currency it would be 5%.  

GARY FAYARD: It would be 5%.  

ALEX PATTERSON (ph): Okay. So we are thinking about how much spending was done per case sold at retail while your marketing dollars follow the retail case sales, there was quite a bit of spending increase per case, is that a fair read?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, that is a fair read.  

ALEX PATTERSON (ph): Is that sort of a new base to work from or --  

GARY FAYARD: No, you also had in the quarter two very significant brands launchings in -- of C2 in Japan and in the U.S. Which were the two largest brands launchings this company has ever done in either country.  

ALEX PATTERSON (ph): Okay. That's helpful. Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Securities.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Just quick, what's your outlook for cap ex for the full year?  

GARY FAYARD: Hi, Bryan. We would expect to continue about where we've been over the last few years. The budget, I think I told you the budget over the last few years has been about $1 billion. I would expect to come in at about 1 billion or less for this year.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Bryan.  

LARRY MARK: Operator, we have time for one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Bonnie Herzog with Smith Barney.  

BONNIE HERZOG (ph), ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Good a evening, everyone. I have a question for Don. I was hoping you could update us on the status of your new economic model CP? I heard you mention this in your remarks and I'm really not hearing a lot about you from this. I'm wondering whether this is a priority for your company and for CC and if so has the strategy changed in any way that we should know about? Thank you.  

DON KNAUSS: No, the strategy has not changed. We are still engaged in those discussions with CCE and as you probably know we implemented phase one of that strategy by netting our, the significant portion of our funding into the price of concentrate May first. So that phase is done. Phase II is then moving to the next level where we start to look at several options. We are looking at options, for example, like the Latin American model which is more incidence price by package. We are looking at the European model. The guiding principles that we are in discussions with CCE around that model are is the same that the model has to be simple, has to be equitable and flexible and we are certainly planning on having that laid out over the next 3 to 4 months so as we go into the next year we are in a different place than we are today. But phase one has been completed and that was a significant I think turning point for you in the model. So we are still committed to that.  

BONNIE HERZOG (ph): Good to hear. Thank you.  

LARRY MARK: I'd like to thank each of you for joining us this afternoon and we really do appreciate your interest in the Coca-Cola Company. We wish you well until we meet again and we will look forward to talking with you in the future. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. At this time you may disconnect your line.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040805e07m002k4
  


 HD
 Q1  2004 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,541 words
   PD
21 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded. All participants will be able to listen-only until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star one on your touch-tone phone. If you're on a speaker phone, please pick up the telephone handset. To withdraw your question, press star two. Participants will be announced by their name and company names in the order they are received.  

   TD
I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations who will begin the conference. Mr. Mark, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us today.  

I'm pleased to be joined this morning by Steve Heyer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, our Senior Operating Officers are with us today to participate in the question and answer portion of the call. Specifically we are joined by Sandy Allan, the President of Europe, Alex Cummings, the President of the Africa Group, Don Knauss, President of North America, Mary Minnick, the President of the Asia Group and Jose Octavio Reyes, the President of the Latin America Group.  

Our prepared comments will be brief so that we can use most of the time for your questions and answers this morning. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we would ask that you would be considerate of others and limit yourself to one question during your turn. Please be respectful of these guidelines.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning the long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we've posted schedules on our company Web site at CocaCola.com in the Investor Section which reconciles our results as reported under GAAP to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives during the discussion this morning and from time to time as we are having discussions with investors. Now, please look at our Web site for this information.  

With that said, I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.  

STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT, COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Larry and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us.  

Doug asked me to send his apologies for not being able to join the call, but our annual share owners meeting later this morning is keeping him very busy. Our meeting starts at 9:30 this morning so we wanted to get an early start and I'll keep my comments brief so we have plenty of time for your questions.  

As you saw in the release this morning, our business as a whole is performing very well. Our reported earnings of 46 cents per share were up 35% over the prior year. Excluding prior year charges in gains, earnings per share grew by 24%.  

The key reason for our EPS growth was our strong operating income. If you strip away all the charges, gains and currency impact, we delivered operating income growth that is above our long-term target of 10%.  

I'm most pleased to report that our growth was driven by excellent performance from all, each and every one of our strategic business units. And as a result, our country mix has improved markedly.  

In addition, we generated our strongest growth in our most profitable brands with trademark Coca-Cola growing 2% globally and 3% internationally. Also trademarked Sprite grew 4%, Dasani grew 23% and POWERade grew 28% globally.  

Our strategy to remain focused on profitable volume growth is leading to strong profits for us, our bottling partners and our customers. Many of you should remember that in our December meeting we discussed the things that we're doing to improve our operating income growth and we're doing them well.  

Specifically, we're focused on improving gross profit and tightly controlling our expenses. We told you that our plan was to improve gross profit by increasing our emphasis on revenue growth management by tailoring our brand package price and channel strategies.  

We also told you that improving bottler health would allow us to invest, execute flawlessly and share in the revenue growth of our system. We also said that focusing on our supply chain efficiencies was critical to drive down our cost of goods sold and that creating innovative and powerful marketing programs was necessary to drive the right kind of volume growth.  

We also said that we would enhance our expense leverage as we drive system efficiencies, manage our G&A, increase efficiencies in our marketing spending and incur less start-up expenses associated with the rollout of noncarbs.  

Our first quarter results reflect solid improvement in both these areas. Our reported gross profit grew by 15%.  

If we were to strip out last year's litigation gain and the impact of foreign exchange, gross profit grew by 9%. This also is above our long-term objectives for gross profit growth.  

In addition, we had 2 points of growth through tough expense management which is in line with our long-term expectations. Expense leverage results from the tight management of our G&A expenses and the system operating efficiencies that we've begun delivering.  

Importantly, our results were achieved while we continued to aggressively invest in our brands. Our direct marketing spending in the first quarter increased double digits on a currency neutral basis, reflecting our commitment to enhance our brand equity and make the most of our marketing dollars.  

Now, we're continuing to find ways to shift our marketing expenditures from nonworking to working dollars that directly touch the consumer. As an example in North America, we've been able to significantly enhance the on-air time for trademark Coke because of the savings from combining our media buying under one agency.  

We're taking similar steps around the world. In short, the first quarter trends reflect an organization fully focused on executing our core strategies.  

Now let me turn to operating highlights around the world.  

Overall, we had excellent performance across all operating groups. In fact, in the first quarter, every one of our operating groups is delivering either in line or above their current year business plan objectives.  

Specifically, in Europe our business performed very well with 4% volume growth and very strong double-digit profit growth due to favorable pricing and mix realization, tight expense control, strong recovery in our German business, profit margins and strong equity income growth.  

In Asia, we are also reporting very strong profit growth due to higher gross profits. [ loss of audio ]  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator, please hold on line, the conference will resume momentarily. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator, please hold on line, the conference will resume momentarily. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator, please continue to hold, the conference will resume momentarily. Ladies and gentlemen, the conference will resume momentarily. Please continue to hold. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the operator, the conference will resume momentarily. Please continue to hold. Ladies and gentlemen, please continue to hold. The conference will resume momentarily. Sir, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK: Thank you very much. Sorry, everybody, it looks like we got cut off. So I think we got cut off right at the beginning of the operating section. So, Steve's going to be, continue his comments at the overview of the operating groups and then we will move to your Q&A. Sorry for any inconvenience. Steve?  

STEVE HEYER: Thanks.  

I was saying that overall, we had an excellent performance across all of our operating groups and that, in fact, in the first quarter, each and every one of our operating groups is delivering either in line or above our current year business plan objectives.  

And then I began to talk about Europe. I don't know how many of you heard but let me just do it again in the spirit of making sure there's no space here.  

In Europe, our business performance was very strong with 4% volume growth and very strong double-digit profit growth which was due to favorable pricing and mix realization, tight expense control, a terrific recovery in our German business profit margins and strong equity income growth.  

In Asia, we were also reporting very strong profit growth due to higher gross profits, strong investments in our brands and lower operating expenses. Japan had a strong quarter with 1.5% volume growth and double digit operating income growth, which was driven in part by Georgia coffee growth of 8% in our highly profitable 190 ML can package, 4% full service vending growth, 6% growth in our carbonated soft drink brands and 14%, sorry, 17% growth in our Marocha nonsugar tea brand.  

Vending is up thanks to the design and innovation initiatives that we put in place last year and supermarket sales growth are robust as marketing and merchandising programs are creating real consumer interest. China and Australia were also very strong contributors to Asia profit growth.  

In Latin America, we had strong volume growth, in Argentina and Venezuela thanks to a more stable environment. In Brazil, our strategy is producing results and system profitability continues to improve dramatically.  

In Mexico, we delivered against our objective of value tailoring our brands, package, price and channel strategies to increase profitable CSP volume. Overall, our portfolio in Latin America delivered solid PBT growth.  

In Africa, profit growth was driven largely by increases in revenue due to strategic price increases, most notably in South Africa, Nigeria and Egypt. Across Africa, we continue to balance our availability and affordability strategies with our revenue growth management objectives to achieve optimal profits and selectively grow our noncarb business as well.  

Finally, I'm delighted that North America posted solid profit growth as promised. This reflects our system's ability to achieve a favorable balance of volume and pricing growth combined with expense leverage.  

Our success in executing tailored customer programs within our foodservice and hospitality division, which grew volume by 3% and our retail division's unit case volume growth of 1% while cycling 6% growth from the prior year and operating in an environment of strong pricing increases across our system and within the industry. In addition, diet CSDs have had a very favorable mix impact to our results and were a strong contributor to our North America results growing at 10% on top of 3% growth last year.  

Overall results reflect our activities to make our business and our system more profitable.  

During the first quarter, we also made strategic decisions to stop doing things that make our system less effective. In several markets around the world, we're improving and/or eliminating products and packages which have less favorable profit characteristics.  

We are de-emphasizing jugged water in Mexico and Indonesia, water packets in Nigeria and one of our regional source water brands in Germany. Within our core CSD business, we are also making conscious decisions to modify our pricing architecture to capture greater value.  

Our volume in a few markets around the world was impacted by pricing increases to capture value, most notably in the Philippines, Egypt and Brazil.  

Now, although certain of these actions may have impacted short-term volume, these are well thought out strategies that will only have a short-term impact on volume as we reset the business but will have long-term benefit for the company and the bottlers. As we've said in the past, when faced with a decision to drive either volume or profits, we are consistently choosing strategies which result in sustainable, long-term system profitability.  

Because we're focused on selling the right kind of volume, both pricing and mix favorably impacted revenue and gross profit growth in the quarter. We are also seeing the benefits of our productivity initiatives.  

Finally, the quarter reflects a healthy bottling system as we continue to see improvements in our equity income. When looking through the rest of 2004 and even beyond, we're not going to change what we're doing except to get better at it.  

Our plans are working and we are getting better every quarter as the system comes together, committed to delivering what we promised.  

As we did throughout Q1, we are going to continue to invest in our core brands, execute tailored brand pact price and channel strategies in each market, innovate for value, work even more closely with our bottling partners and continue to get expense leverage through disciplined management of overhead and more efficient use of marketing dollars. Most especially, we have a great team who are focused as our results show and we work together building an execution culture.  

Now let me turn things over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Steve.  

I'd like to start off this morning by pointing out that the results which we reported today mark the first time in the history of the Coca-Cola Company that we have ever reported net income of over $1 billion in the first quarter of a year. I think that shows that we are off to a very good start in 2004.  

Highlights from the release this morning reported earnings per share of 46 cents, a 35% increase from the prior year first quarter earnings of 34 cents. If you exclude unusual items from last year, the 46 cents compares to 37, which is a 24% increase in earnings per share in the quarter.  

Net operating revenues increased 13% during the quarter to $5.1 billion, which was driven by an increase in gallon sales of 6%, improved pricing of concentrate, improved country mix, positive currency trends, then partially offset by the impact of creating a supply chain management company in Japan.  

Reported operating income for the quarter increased 35% to right at $1.5 billion. If you exclude unusual items from last year, operating income increased 23%. This was driven by strong performance in key markets throughout the world and positive currency.  

Currencies positively impacted operating income by about 12% percentage points in the quarter. Thus, currency neutral operating income increased 11% in the quarter and this is something I am especially pleased with.  

Our equity income increased 94% in the quarter, demonstrating that our current business strategies are leading to overall improving health of the Coca-Cola bottling system around the world.  

Cash from operations for the quarter was nearly $1.2 billion as compared to about $600 million in the prior year first quarter. Overall, I'd say a great start for the year.  

Now, I'd like to continue this morning by expanding on a few items which impacted our results in the quarter.  

First, let me start with currency trends. As I've already mentioned, we're now starting to see a benefit from the fact that more than 80% of our profits come from outside of the United States. As a reminder, currencies were a major drag on our results during the years from '96 to 2002 and I'm happy to see that the trends have changed and we're now seeing a benefit.  

In the first quarter, we received a currency benefit due to year-over-year strength in most key currencies versus the U.S. dollar, especially the euro and the yen. As we look to the rest of 2004, we're expecting substantially less benefit from currencies in each subsequent quarter as we cycle through the currency moves which occurred in 2003.  

In fact, at current spot rates, our view would be that there'd probably be very little currency if any benefit in the fourth quarter of this year.  

In addition, the currency markets remain very volatile as we've seen in recent weeks. Therefore I'm not willing to quantify for a [size] foreign impact for the rest of the year because of this increased volatility. But based on our projections, I do expect some benefits but not nearly at the level we saw in the first quarter.  

Now let me move to shipping days and how this impacted our results.  

As many of you know, unit case volume is the amount shipped from bottlers into the trade and it's provided as a measure of consumer demand for our products.  

In our release this morning, we have included the reported growth in unit cases in the quarter and the growth in unit case volume computed on an average daily sales basis. We did this so that you would have all the information necessary to understand our strong performance.  

As we discussed in our last conference call, because of the way our quarterly calendar works, we experienced a shift in the number of shipping days between the first quarter and the fourth quarter when comparing to prior year periods.  

We had four more shipping days in the first quarter of this year than we did in the first quarter of last year. This impacted first quarter revenues and expenses in 2004 as compared to the first quarter of 2003.  

Remember that marketing expenses are based on the 9% reported unit case sales, which led to much higher marketing growth in the quarter. The growth in gallon shipments of 6% in the quarter trailed the growth in reported unit case shipments of 9%, primarily due to amounts being cycled from the previous year. As you may recall in the first quarter of last year, gallons were well ahead of unit cases.  

To summarize, the shift in shipping days provided a slight benefit to earnings per share in the quarter. This benefit relates to timing and as we've previously disclosed, the fourth quarter will have three fewer shipping days. For the full year, we expect unit cases and gallons to grow at similar rates.  

Just to be clear, the extra gallons only provided a slight benefit to the first quarter results. The growth in our operating income and earnings per share was primarily driven by strong operating performance in key markets throughout the world.  

Now let me move to an accounting topic, FIN 46.  

As we've mentioned in the past, FASB interpretation Number 46 impacts our accounting for certain bottling investments. In the past, our ownership interest in several Middle East bottlers and a China bottler were accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  

However, due to the application of this new interpretation, the balance sheet accounts for these operations were recorded or consolidated in our books as of March 31st of this year, resulting in an increase to assets and liabilities of about $380 million.  

Under these accounting rules, the P&L accounts related to these operations will be included in our consolidated results beginning April 1st. We expect the consolidation of these entities will not impact our net income and will have an immaterial effect on various income statement line items.  

Before I wrap up, let me highlight the strong growth in our cash flows during the quarter.  

As I said a moment ago, cash from operations nearly doubled to 1.2 billion in the quarter, up from about 600 million last year. We expect to return a significant portion of our cash to our share owners through dividends and share repurchases.  

During the first quarter, we announced our 42nd consecutive annual increase in our dividend. A 14% increase of the quarterly dividend from 22 cents to 25 cents per common share. This is equivalent to an annual dividend of a dollar per share, up from 88 cents per share in 2003.  

We also repurchased 486 million of our company's stock. Looking forward, we expect strong cash flows to continue and we remain committed to repurchasing at least 2 billion of our stock during 2004.  

To sum up my remarks, we are very pleased with our first quarter results. Each of our operating units performed very well. We expect 2004 to be a strong year as we continue to focus on profitable growth, aggressive cost management and strong financial fundamentals.  

Before we move to your questions, I'd like to make a brief comment on the topic of the CEO succession.  

We do not have any additional information to communicate at this time. The board of directors is actively managing the succession process and when additional information is available, we will provide it to you. Therefore, we would ask that your questions this morning be focused on our business and the strategies that each of us in the room is committed to implementing.  

With that said, Operator, we'd like to move to the questions please.  

OPERATOR: If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star one on your touch-tone phone. If you're on a speaker phone, please pick up the telephone handset. To withdraw your question, press star two. We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Andrew Conway of CSFB.  

ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Morning, Steve and the operators. Question on assessing, you know, volume and profit trade-off. If you could share with us your thoughts in two countries, Mexico and the Philippines in terms of how your brand packaged channel strategies will lead you to an improved competitive position in those marketplaces.  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES, PRESIDENT AND COO, LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Andrew, hi. Pacho.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Hi Pacho.  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Mexico first. If we can put that volume in perspective first. We're facing in Mexico tough comparisons. That's a 14% increase in 2003 versus 2000 in the first quarter. Economy, it is not helping us. The economic analysts see very modest GDP growth rate and unemployment in the first quarter. Also, yes, a challenging pricing environment, but within that, within that, Mexico's total volume was down 1%.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Right.  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: That's total volume. But see as this volume was up, water in personal sizes was up and it is water in jugs, large format water, that is driving the volume down. So, our most profitable volumes is up and our least profitable volume is down, so, we're staying true to our value strategy.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Great.  

MARY MINNICK, PRESIDENT AND COO, ASIA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Andrew, on the Philippines, hi, it's Mary.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Hi, Mary.  

MARY MINNICK: As you know, our bottler has undergone a fundamental restructuring of their going to market strategy significantly reducing the number of wholesalers, taking costs out of the system, finding synergies between the Coca-Cola brands and pop color, for example. After a couple of years of that and no price increases in the past three years, we have strategically agreed with our bottler that now it is time to work towards margin improvement in the Philippines.  

And given that we have a very high share of sales already in the Philippines and given that we have restructured going to market, it makes sense to go after price realization. And that price realization is twofold, one is an increase in wholesale prices on pop cola and an increase in both wholesale pricing and consumer pricing for brand Coke.  

So, from a competitive standpoint, I think we're in pretty good shape in the Philippines, have been as you know, historically. And from a margin standpoint, now is the time for our bottlers to start realizing some of the profitability from revamping going to market.  

STEVE HEYER: Andrew, this is Steve. The only other thing I'd add is that in both examples, brand health indicators are at all-time highs, which gives us confidence when we ask questions like favorite brands and brand worth the money, the numbers have frankly strengthened, which is a tribute to the marketing that we've done and the relationships we've created with consumers. And so that gives us the flexibility to extract value and we are mindful as we do this of what our relative share position looks like and we haven't seen any kind of share erosion to give us any concern that we've pushed too hard.  

So, we will continue to do that unless and until we discover brand health declines or we discover that our relative share position is in any way threatened. But doing this this way, we believe, is absolutely consistent with the messages we sent in December and the commitments we've made to one another, that our business is about profitable volume growth.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Marc Cohen of Goldman Sachs.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Gary, I think it was Gary, took us through this algorithm of 6% gallon growth to 9% gross profit growth to 11% operating profit growth. I wonder if you could just give us a little bit of a sense of a road map as the year now goes forward? Because I understand you're excited about that 11% number. It just seems to me that the gallon number, you know, may fade as the year goes on, just, you know, in light of the fact that BCS is up 2%. So how does this play out as the year goes on? Can you give us any sensitive direction of the components and how they'll go?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Marc. I guess the thing I would say and I tried to hit it a little bit in the remarks earlier is that marketing expenses, remember, are those expenses are recorded based on unit case sales. And there are two aspects here.  

Number one, not only were the gallons up on a percentage increase basis in the first quarter, primarily a lot of that due from the shipping days, but the reported unit cases were up 9% because of those extra shipping days, as well. And because of marketing expenses being recorded based on that 9% increase in unit cases you saw a significant increase in the quarter in marketing expenses. That's why you're seeing total SG&A up about 14%, I think, on a reported basis.  

So, marketing up significantly more than that in the quarter. But for the full year, I would, marketing will not be up anything close to what it is in the first quarter. So, those are kind of somewhat offsetting each other, as well.  

The other thing about marketing, I would say, is that last year, when we started the year, we knew going into 2003 that it was going to be a pretty tough year and we were pretty conservative with our marketing spend in the early part of the year and as we saw that our strategies were really gaining traction throughout the year, we started ramping marketing up and you saw the result of that, that all of our strategic business units showed solid, I think 10% operating income growth in the fourth quarter of last year.  

This year we are very confident in where we are. We know the strategies are working and we had marketing at a much higher level in the first quarter.  

So, as marketing goes through the year, on a quarter-on-quarter cycling basis, much higher in the first and the percentage increases will be declining through the year. So just reinforce, I think we had a really great start to the year in this first quarter.  

MARC COHEN: So, what we see, just so I make sure I understand this, so, what we'd see is gross profit growth moderate to something more in line with kind of, more sustainable unit and price behavior and you're just going to get tremendous marketing expense leverage as you get into the second half of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: That's right. That's what I would expect to see.  

MARC COHEN: Okay, thanks.  

GARY FAYARD: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello of Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. My question is on you had about 4 points of price mix in the quarter. And as we're seeing the bottlers focus on improved price mix, also de-emphasizing some of those less profitable packages like large format water, are we going to see this kind of 4 points of price mix sustained going forward versus what we saw more in the 1 to 2 range the last couple of years?  

And then, Gary, just one quick follow-up on the last point you were making on the operating profit growth. Given that the marketing expense went on sales curve accounting, is it a very small percentage of expenses that were more fixed in the quarter, things like amortization? Is that why you got that slight benefit in the quarter on the extra selling days?  

STEVE HEYER: Bill, let me give you a kind of a top line and then we can do once around the world discussing the different approaches that are necessary. I don't want to give you a precise forecast, but let me say that as our brand price packed channel mix strategy continues to evolve and the package diversity in key markets around the world continues to expand and our ability to do store by store, street by street segmentation improves, we expect to see much more growth coming from package and channel mix and much less coming from rate.  

That's a big piece of what the downstream strategy's about. We're going to continue to drive supply chain efficiencies and in certain markets we expect to take rate as the consumers and our trade can adjust and accept it. And that's a very different story around the world.  

So, you know, where it's relatively easy for us to get price in the trade and through to the consumer, I think you'll continue to see price increases in addition to mix improvements and in other places it's going to be driven substantially more by mix, substantially less by blunt instrument price increases, if you will. Anybody want to jump in on that?  

DON KNAUSS, PRESIDENT AND COO, NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: I would just say in North America, Bill, it's Don.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Hi, Don.  

DON KNAUSS: In the first trimester of last year we had our lowest pricing realization, so, the price realization you're seeing this year in the first quarter is probably our highest rate increases that you will see for the balance of the year. I think we in the bottling system are managing that pricing fairly well. As we go into the summer season, we'll, in fact, see some lower pricing than we're seeing in the first quarter because we're cycling a more reasonable level of pricing. Last year we just didn't get much in the first quarter.  

GARY FAYARD: Bill, Gary. On the second point of your question on operating expenses, our nonmarketing expenses of SG&A, as Steve and I both said in our remarks, we're very focused on keeping expenses down, a real cost focus.  

Those expenses, in fact, came in right on our plan for the quarter, were down versus prior year. Now, granted there were, you know, some restructuring expenses in the first quarter of last year, as well. But we would expect to see very small, if any, kind of increases in the nonmarketing G&A.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher with J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Yes, good morning, everyone. I wanted to talk a little bit about Europe in terms of how you're viewing the situation as we lap against much more difficult comparisons over the next couple of quarters from a currency standpoint, volume, weather, the whole nine yards. Was wondering if you could give us a little bit of an outlook on how things should look in Europe over the next couple of quarters?  

SANDY ALLAN, PRESIDENT AND COO, EUROPE, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: John, this is Sandy. How are you?  

JOHN FAUCHER: Good, how are you doing?  

SANDY ALLAN: I'm fine, thanks. John, I think in Europe, it's true that last year we had an excellent summer in the third quarter. But as you see from our volume growth in the first, we started off very well with 4% growth and we're confident that we're going to get reasonable volume growth certainly in the second quarter.  

As we move into the third quarter, we've got some great activities coming up, for example, we've got the Euro 2004 soccer. We've got the Olympics. And you put all that together, we have a very, very strong marketing program.  

I think in addition to that, throughout Europe, we are very focused on driving net revenue, particularly the bottlers net revenue. And last year and this year we're putting a tremendous investment along with our bottlers into single serve packaging, which, as you know, will be very profitable for our bottlers which in turn allows to us increase concentrate prices. So, we expect to get concentrate price increase.  

We also expect to get the benefit of brand mix. In Europe there is a tremendous movement towards diet product and our Diet Coke and Fanta Light products are growing double digits and they have been for the last two years and we expect that to continue.  

Now, Diet Coke has got about double the profitability for us compared to sugar Coke. So you put all of that together and we are confident that we are going to have a, certainly a strong second quarter and we'll [recycle] it that summer, we expect to be positive in the third quarter.  

JOHN FAUCHER: And one follow-up. Obviously the German market is probably still struggling from a volume standpoint. Can you just highlight your market share trends there?  

SANDY ALLAN: Let me just deal with Germany so that we're clear. When the mandatory deposit was introduced in January of 2003, consumers, all consumers just about, left the single serve CSD category. To give you an idea, we sold in 2003 about 100 million cases less of cans and half liter nonreturnables because consumers just simply couldn't get their deposit back so they left the CSD category to other categories which didn't attract the mandatory deposit like juice and tea and coffee.  

So what's happened in Germany is that the whole CSD industry came down by about 7% in 2003. And that situation will remain until there is a change in the mandatory deposit legislation, which we don't expect to happen in 2004. We do expect some change in 2005 because we believe that the European Union's going to interfere.  

So, if you take that loss of single serve volume, the fact that we ended up flat last year in Germany, was in my view a great achievement, and it showed that we are taking share in the multi-serve refillable category. So, overall last year we actually gained a point of share. This year for the first quarter, reading February, we're actually down about half a percent.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Farkus with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE FARKUS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Good morning. I'm wondering if you could address the profitability of the water business in Mexico? We're lapping now the structural change with the brands a year ago and I'm wondering, perhaps ignoring jugs, if you can give us a sense of the profit trends? And on the back of that, similarly, if you could comment on the profitability in your North American water business and how the three tier strategy is looking this year versus a year ago? Thank you.  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Hi, Christine. Profitability of water in Mexico. Water is profitable in Mexico. The small size is what we call personal sizes are very profitable, less profitable, as other categories, similar categories.  

What is not as profitable is the large format, the jugs. Those are not unprofitable, but not as profitable as the small packages. And the lapping that you talk about, I have already mentioned that it was a 14% increase in the first quarter a year ago versus '02. Does that answer your question?  

CHRISTINE FARKUS: A little bit more specifically on profit growth in your single serve water, how are those trends looking now once we're cycling the structural change?  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Well, as you know in Mexico and actually throughout Latin America, we offer different packages for different channels at different price points. This price and package in architecture is continuously bold and continuously evolving to satisfy consumer needs and to stay true to market realities.  

So, as such at any given point in time, some prices are up and some prices are down, but that strategy, that price impact strategy at the end of the day, the idea is to increase revenues. And that strategy has proven to be successful in doing just that and I believe that it will prove it again as we go along this year in Mexico.  

CHRISTINE FARKUS: Would you say those comments are true, as well, on the soft drink side given the competitive nature of what you're seeing there?  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Absolutely.  

STEVE HEYER: Don do you want to comment on North America?  

DON KNAUSS: Yes, good morning, Christine.  

CHRISTINE FARKUS: Good morning.  

DON KNAUSS: I'd say on the three tier strategy, we are getting traction. As you know, Dasani is obviously the profit engine in North America and Dasani is growing at 17% in the first quarter. I think important to note that Dasani's pricing relative to the category averages a 138 index, versus Aquafina at a 115, Nestle at an 80 and Danone at a 73.  

Now, one of reasons we're happy with the three tier strategy is to help Dasani. Using these three brands with major retailers, we're getting a lot more merchandising support behind Dasani and Evian as we group these three brands together.  

One of the things that's resonated with the trade is we're trying to optimize profitability for the retailers in this and footballing low priced water is not in the best interest of anybody and the retailers I think are coming on side with that point of view. So, we are seeing in the first half of the year much more commitment from retailers on incremental merchandising support behind all three brands.  

We have moderated the pricing on Danone in February and March. We've changed our trade approach. You can see some slowing in volume in Danone because of it. But we're focused on optimizing profitability in the category and that seems to be resonating with the retailers.  

CHRISTINE FARKUS: Terrific. Thank you. And I'm just wondering if I can follow-up quickly to get your global and North American CSD and non-CSD volume growth? Thank you.  

LARRY MARK: Christine, this is Larry. The carbonated soft drinks on a global basis were up 2%, noncarbs were up 4%, and as we said that was offset by some of the choices to de-emphasize some of the water in different markets. And in North America, carbs were up 1 and noncarbs were up 6%.  

CHRISTINE FARKUS: Thank you.  

LARRY MARK: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Yes, good morning. On Brazil, I was hoping you could give us a progress report. You're almost a near into your new model. Can you expand on both your profit trends in Brazil, system profit trends and where you are on returnable bottle initiatives in Brazil, as not all bottlers have taken them up yet? And second of all on Germany, you said you're taking share in the multi-serve returnable category, but what happens in 2005 if the deposit law is reversed? Is there life after this law for returnable bottles? Or are your investments in refillable bottles likely to become obsolete?  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Carlos, hi. Pacho. Brazil, we're very pleased with the trend in Brazil. We're clearly following the right strategy. Profits are up, double-digit up and not only for us, but for the total system.  

Coca-Cola brand, Coca-Cola is gaining share. It actually grew 3% in the quarter. And although total volume is still down, the trend is in the right direction and as we continue to trend down the unprofitable volume it would increase even more. So, we remain focused on the strategy as we have discussed it. It's paying off, we're getting there.  

STEVE HEYER: If I could just add, Pacho, this is Steve, everybody. We went to a good deal of trouble to take apart our operating costs in Brazil and to basically recast the business such that our Op Ex has been reset and substantially lower on the one hand, but we've also went to a good deal of work to build back capability that had eroded with regard to customer management, connections to the trade and our ability to really have control over where our packages went and which packages went to which customers.  

And as that continues to come online and as the bottlers build back some infrastructure with us, we believe that our ability to actually execute a revenue management strategy will further accelerate the profits in that market.  

SANDY ALLAN: Carlos, Sandy. On Germany, and the mandatory deposit, what I indicated was that there's going to be a change to the mandatory deposit in 2005, but I do not believe that there will be an elimination of the deposit. I think it will be modified.  

The problem in Germany, as I said before, is that consumers can't get their deposit which is 25 euro cents which is about 30 U.S., they can't get it back easily. I think there will be changes in the legislation that will introduce what I would call a fee on nonreturnable packaging and that fee will be of sufficient magnitude to protect the refillable packaging because after all, what the government is looking for is an improvement in the environment.  

So, they want to, if you like discourage the use of nonreturnable packaging or if consumers want nonreturnable packaging, then you must be prepared to pay a fee for that convenience. So, I don't see that refillable packaging is going to disappear when the mandatory redeposit legislation is modified.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: The next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Banc of America.  

BRYAN SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey, good morning, everybody. Just a question on raw material and commodity costs. Just curious to hear, you know, certainly we've seen an increase in commodity costs as the year has begun and where that stands relative to where you were planning at the beginning of the year and kind of how that affects, you know, the plans that you had with the system and whether or not that's creating an opportunity to actually go in and ask for more price increases in certain markets?  

STEVE HEYER: Well, this is Steve. Let me just take a second and top line this and then anybody else that wants to jump in can.  

Many of you know we've been working closely with our largest bottlers around the world to basically create a procurement capability that leverages the strength, the scope, the scale of the system. That has done a lot of good for the bottlers and for the company with respect to our ability to manage costs and really take advantage of what we mean to many of our suppliers, both from an R&D and development point of view, but also from an absolute cost point of view.  

Those programs are picking up a lot of traction. Bottlers are enthusiastic. We're working together as never before and it's showing up in P&Ls of everybody.  

So, with that as some kind of an overarching answer to your question, I think it puts us in a position where we're confident that our underlying economics can be managed as commodity prices and raw materials move, that we can find ourselves in an enviable position relative to competition.  

Anybody else want to... Nope, I don't think there are any other takers. I hope that answered your question, Brian.  

BRYAN SPILLANE: Yeah, that does.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Alec Patterson with RCM.  

ALEC PATTERSON, ANALYST, RCM GLOBAL INVESTORS: Yeah, really a direct one for Gary. Just, Gary, the FX impact, top line, could you break that out? And also, what sort of impact hedging had on delivering the FX, the operating income and how that's going to play out for the rest of the year?  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, Alec, as I said it was about 12 points on operating income on the net revenue line, currencies impacted revenues about 8 points positive.  

Relative to hedging results, the hedging actually did not come into play in the first quarter. The rates were, the actual rates that came through were above anything that we had lost, which is what you'd want to happen, obviously. That's why we used the option strategy to have the upside but protect the downside, which is what happened in the first quarter.  

Relative to the remainder of the year, we do have hedge coverage in place for most of the remainder of the year but the benefit, as I said, because we're starting to cycle some of the positive moves of the euro and the yen and last year, the benefits are going to start coming down and be substantially less, based on spot rates as of now versus last year.  

ALEC PATTERSON: So, Gary, the 8% on sales that turned into 12 on operating income is due to country mix?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. It's on country mix. That's exactly right.  

ALEC PATTERSON: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Alec.  

LARRY MARK: Operator, we've got time for one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Okay, your final question comes from Marc Greenberg of Deutsche Banc.  

MARC GREENBURG: Thanks, good morning. A follow-up with Gary on your comment of consolidation of bottlers. Can you briefly outline the criterion you applied to consolidate the new bottlers and discuss if it has any impact on your intention to ultimately reduce ownership in bottling operations? And coupled with that, some comment would be helpful about whether Coke is willing to add additional leverage to the balance sheet at this time?  

GARY FAYARD: Okay, thanks, Marc. A couple of things. I received from one of the large accounting firms recently, their booklet or analysis of FIN 46, now, remember this is an interpretation to the FASB issue. And it's something like 200 and something pages long just to try to interpret this thing, so, going through the rules is mind-boggling, shall we say.  

But basically under those rules there are some bottlers that while we do not own a majority of, we do not have majority voting control, we are required because of some guarantees or other things to consolidate them. They're minor and as I said and do not expect any significant impacts on our balance sheet or our P&L. In fact, the P&L is basically the same either way, it's just within line items, a full consolidation versus equity accounting.  

With that said, what we've said previously that many of our bottlers that we own, we would expect to sell over the next few years. We have sold our bottlers recently in Vietnam, Nepal and Sri Lanka. We are engaged in some discussions to sell some other small bottling interests that we have. Nothing of any significance. The major strategic stakes that we have, be that in Helenic or Amatyl, CCE, Simms, etc., we would expect to maintain those positions.  

STEVE HEYER: Well, thanks, everybody. I'd like to thank everybody for joining us on the call this morning. We look forward to discussing strong results with you again soon. We feel confident about the year and we appreciate you taking the time to talk with us this morning. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call, you may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040505e04l0008i
  


 HD
 Q4  2003 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,013 words
   PD
11 February 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, at this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call.  

At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded.  

   TD
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star, then the number one on your touch-tone phone. If you are on a speaker phone, please pick up your the telephone handset before asking your question. To withdraw your question, press star, then the number two. Participants will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received.  

I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of the conference call is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants, please contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have additional questions.  

I would now like to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations who will begin the conference.  

Mr. Mark, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you.  

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning.  

I'm pleased to be joined by Doug Daft, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Steve Heyer, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, several of our other senior officers are with us today to participate in the question and answer portion of the call. Specifically we are joined by "Sandy" Allan, who heads up our Europe operations; Alex Cummings, who heads up Africa; Mary Minnick, the head of our Asia group; and Jose' Octavio Reyes, who heads up our Latin America group.  

Our prepared comments will be brief so that we can use most of our time for your questions and answers. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we ask that you be considerate of others and limit yourself to one question during your turn.  

Before we get started, I would like to remind everybody that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning our long-term earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's most recent form 10-K. In addition, I would also like to call your attention to the fact that we have posted a schedule on our company's web site at Coca-Cola.com, in the investor section, which reconciles our results as reported under GAAP to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referenced by our senior executives in our discussion this morning, and from time to time in discussing our financial performance. Please look at our web site for this information.  

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Daft.  

DOUG DAFT, CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Larry and good morning to everybody.  

In a moment, obviously I will hand it over to Steve who will take us through our operational activities. Gary will take us through the financial performance. As always, I am here to hear what is on your minds. But before passing it over to Steve, let me just highlight a couple of items from 2003 which are certainly areas of focus for us in 2004.  

For the first of these, we refer to as system alignment. It is about ourselves and our bottlers. Our key bottlers are seeing improved economics compared to prior years. Their returns on invested capital, their earnings per share and operating profits have all improved during the course of 2003. And I should point out at the same time our three-year recurring compound earnings per share growth rate was 10%. Of course on a -- on a reported basis, it is much, much higher than that, 26 I think, Larry? The second item I want to comment on is our progress from what we call a volume model to a volume and value business model.  

Now, all through 2003, we put in place a new strategy focused on creating value for us and our bottling partners, through a disciplined brand, price, pack, and channel strategy. And I must say the business model itself has been extremely, extremely well received and implemented within our organization, and it does signal in our mind a more rational and sustained approach to growing our business for the long term.  

Our business as a whole is performing well across brands, and across countries. We're focused on offering the consumer the choices they want ,for a wide variety of beverages, to meet their needs, and as our core brands continue to grow, we will obviously and definitely benefit from the nearly 400 brands which we offer throughout the world.  

Now, in the same way, we are continuing to round out our country portfolio. We are less reliant than ever before on just a few countries. An we have a great portfolio of diverse countries around the world. If you look at our top 25 markets, you see markets coming in to the key -- key markets for us, but in terms of volume and profits like China, France, Chile, Nigeria, Thailand, South Africa, Spain, and Great Britain. And I really would expect that this diverse portfolio of brands, and countries, will continue to be a key strength for us in the future.  

Now, I am looking forward to 2004. And you've heard me say a thousand times before that our system is absolutely unbeatable when we are aligned with our bottling partners. Well, we are aligned. And I'm looking forward to continuing what we started. We're on the right track to long-term sustainable growth of our brands and our business.  

And on that note, let me turn it over to Steve to discuss our operating activities.  

STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Doug. And thanks to everybody joining us today.  

By now, most all of you have likely read our earnings release so I won't repeat what's there. I will focus on some key themes and be brief to allow maximum time for questions.  

2003 has been a year of many record achievements, and we feel good about the records. Record levels of unit case sales, revenues, net income, cash from operations, and equity income. Specifically, unit case volume grew almost 700 million unit cases, reaching 19.4 billion unit cases last year. Carbonated soft drinks grew 2% and represent 83% of our business today. Noncarbs grew 14% and now account for 17% of our business, up from 15% last year. Revenues grew to $21 billion, increasing 8% over the prior year.  

Our international operations generated revenues of $14.4 billion. And our operating income from outside the United States is now over 80%. The strength of our international business is one of the key competitive advantages of the Coca-Cola Company. Also reported EPS increased from $1.23 to $1.77, which is a 44% increase, and excluding certain items that impact comparability, our earnings per share increased 17% from $1.66 to $1.95.  

Cash from operations increased 15% to $5.5 billion. Of which we returned $3.7 billion dollars to our share owners through dividends and share repurchase. Underlying equity income grew by 29%. And Gary is going to go into more detail on this in a few minutes. But please keep in mind that we were able to deliver these record results despite a pretty tough year that really tested us in some ways, because of unexpected challenges that came along.  

I think this illustrates the reliability and the strength of the Coke system, and I think also it really proves out the enduring appeal of our brands; the power of our marketing and innovation capabilities; the strength of our management team; and our strong relationships with consumers and customers. However, as we discussed in December, our underlying operating income growth was not, was not , where we wanted it to be.  

With that said, we took aggressive actions in 2003 that were necessary to deliver our earnings per share growth. And even though we were hit by a whole series of unexpected challenges across our operating groups, I believe we demonstrated our ability to deliver against our business strategies, and our financial commitments. In Asia, as an example, we were hit hard by SARS, false pesticide allegations in India, and an unusually weak industry performance in Japan. However, we were able to adjust to these issues. We are now seeing a recovery and are balancing and delivering growth across our countries, our brands, and our packages.  

In North America, our system remained focused on maximizing value through a balanced price and volume approach, even as we went about the task of integrating our operations into a single unit focused on reaching customers and consumers with greater efficiency and effectiveness. That work is largely behind us. North America, at the same time, going through that process, cemented its innovation and marketing leadership position this past year.  

In Europe, we had an outstanding year driven by sound business fundamentals, aggressive innovation, strong marketing strategies, and very rigorous cost management. Also, a little hot weather and the strong euro helped drive our results.  

Throughout Africa, we continued to invest and focus on the essentials such as: growing trademark Coke; creating new cold drink outlets; improving our market execution and availability; expanding affordable packaging options; and this together led to double digit operating income growth in Africa while we also strengthened our market position.  

In Latin America, we battled some tough economic challenges, but our performance was solid once again proving that we can drive value for our system, even in difficult circumstances. This resulted in strong growth in local currency ROI, in the key countries within Latin America.  

When we look to 2004, we're confident that the steps we took in '03 and the plans we have for 2004 will noticeably improve our ability to deliver sustainable profit growth. With 2004, our primary focus is to invest in our core brands.  

We believe we have substantial upside in our CSD business, as we execute tailored brand price, tack and channel strategies. This means we are going to continue to differentiate our brands and segment our marketplace efforts to increase more value for our system. We are going to work diligently to continue to innovate for value, as Doug mentioned, and we are going to work even more closely with our bottling partners, and as we do that, we will continue to get expense leverage through disciplined management of overhead, and more efficient use of marketing dollars. We also believe we will see strong growth in our NCB portfolio, much of which will also benefit from continued innovation in product and package execution. We are addressing each of these aspects throughout the company.  

As we said in December, in most of our markets we're well long in moving in the right direction. But let me walk you through a couple of examples of key initiatives that I think symbolize and specify the work that we're doing against our key strategies. First, with regard to investing in our core brands. We are focused on those brands and also on new brand growth engines. Vanilla Coke continues to attract new consumers in North America, as an example, and is now in over 50 international markets. In 2004, we expect Vanilla Coke to continue as a key growth contributor.  

In China, now our sixth largest volume market, trademark Coca-Cola is up 13% for the year, and Fanta is up 17%, while at the same time our very profitable Crude Juice drink grew over 70%. So the message is focusing on right brands helps to deliver strong double digit profit increases in China and will continue to drive our results in the coming year.  

In Western Europe, we've increased our focus on lighter lo-cal variants of our core brands of Coke, Sprite, and Fanta. In these markets, our profitability on light products is 65% higher than on regular carbonated soft drinks. So, as we look at our mix, we see profit growth, as we continue to focus on the right brand pack, channel mix.  

In our highest per capita consumption country, Mexico, we continue to grow Coca-Cola while enhancing our other very profitable CSD offerings like Fanta, Sprite, Lift and Fresca. And together they grew double digits in 2003, and they are going to continue to benefit in 2004 from new flavor extensions, and packaging initiatives. In our 10th biggest volume market, South Africa, trademark Coca-Cola brands grew 11% during the year, and more importantly, our profits in South Africa increased double digits. The solid local execution of our bottling partners drove these results and we have every reason to believe that that will continue to be our advantage in 2004.  

Second key point. We're creating more value through tailored brand package, price, and channel strategies. A great example of this is Brazil. In Brazil we focused on price realization and profitable case sales which resulted in system operating profit growth, almost 50% on a local currency basis. This increase was due to strong profit growth for both Coke and our bottling partners, and our continued execution is going to drive profit growth again in 2004.  

France, Great Britain, Spain, and Italy remain focused on profitable immediate consumption packages where we saw double digit increases in '03 volume which clearly helped each of these operations deliver double digit increases in operating income. In Argentina, we've expanded our use of returnable packages for Coke, allowing us to offer more affordable options. The result, full year growth of 19% for trademark Coca-Cola. And our expansion of refillables to Sprite has resulted in growth of 25% in the fourth quarter, and will continue to provide a strong lift to our 2004 performance.  

In Japan, our brands sold through the highly profitable full vending channel are up 5% in the fourth quarter, as a result of actions the team took to enhance our execution. Within this channel, we reported fourth quarter growth of 16% for one of our most profitable products, Georgia Coffee, in the 190 ml can. We're optimistic about our vending channel opportunities in 2004. A lot of work has been done and it's beginning to pay off.  

Within North America, its early days, but we are already receiving a favorable response from our future consumption channel customers, as they think about our dual can promotion strategy. By ad featuring a 20 or 24 pack can package in combination with fridge pack, we are able to provide value to strong usage households and at the same time provide a preferred package to a broader range of consumers. The combination is leading to improved gross margins for our bottlers and retailers.  

Moving on to the third initiative, we are, as Doug said, innovating for value, not just volume. In North America, we're testing the fridge pack for 12 ounce PET bottles by combining the fridge pack, which is loved by consumers, with convenient resealable PET bottles, we're meeting a consumer need that nobody else in the beverage industry is addressing, while at the same time, increasing revenue category growth for our customers and gross margins for our bottlers.  

Across most of Europe, both Powerade and Nestea are successful brands which deliver higher than average margins because of their skew towards immediate consumption packages. In 2004 we will reinvest and revitalize our juice drink business under the trademarks of Minute Maid and Cappy with the intent of duplicating this economic model. We're also innovating for value in our marketing programs, leveraging our powerful Coke brand to build associations in other strong brands in ways that are very cost effective for us and exciting for consumers.  

Our fourth initiative. We've made tremendous improvements in our relationships with our bottlers around the world. As Doug said, restoring the financial and operating health of our bottling partners has been one of our highest priorities.  

Throughout '03, the earnings and returns on invested capital for our bottlers continued to improve. The Coca-Cola system is now more closely aligned than ever. We're continuing the joint strategic planning process we established with our bottling partners, as well as our regular series of top to top leadership meetings. We are running the system as one. By improving our ability to execute these initiatives help us to grow the system's economic pie.  

And lastly, we're improving our expense leverage. The steps that we've taken to integrate our food service, bottle, can, and Minute Maid operations in North America have created a leaner, more efficient, more effective and maybe most importantly, more accountable organization. Other operating groups also took steps in '03 to streamline their operations to be more efficient.  

As we look to '04, we are going to remain very focused on driving out costs in all of our groups. Each of these examples indicates our heightened focus on building value with volume. And we are setting in place this refinement in our strategy, while we are maintaining our gaining share within the industry. Our 4% growth in '04 is consistent with the growth rate of the worldwide nonalcoholic, ready to drink beverage segment, but in key categories, such as CSDs and water, we increased our share position.  

We remain very conscious of our position relative to the industry in terms of volume, but even more importantly, we look at our position in terms of value. Value share represents our portion of the retail dollars which are spent on nonalcoholic, ready to drink beverages. And I am delighted to report that we estimate that we have gained value share in at least 11 of our top 15 markets.  

In our key markets, the United States, Mexico, Brazil, China, Great Britain, Spain, South Africa, Argentina, India, France, and Italy, we grew retail dollar share. That's 11 of the top 15. I can't be more definitive on some of the others because of data availability. These stats are further evidence that our revenue management strategies are already showing clear results. In most of the world, we're getting it done. We have a very balanced portfolio of country operations driving our results. We are poised for a strong year in '04.  

As we balance the performance of all of our markets around the world with an especially strong focus on profitable volume growth. As we begin to see positive economic reports in many of the countries in which we operate, I am optimistic. We have a winning combination when you consider our system, our strategies, our brands, our people, and our financial strength.  

Now, let me turn things over to Gary. Gary?  

GARY FAYARD, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Steve.  

I would like to continue this morning by highlighting some additional financial achievements this past year. As Steve mentioned, our reported earnings per share increased from $1.23 to $1.77, a 44% increase. As we highlighted in the release, several factors impacted comparability of amounts when analyzing this year and last year, excluding these items, our earnings per share increased 17% from $1.66 to $1.95.  

The strong earnings growth led to a strong growth in our cash flows. Cash from operations increased 15% to $5.5 billion. This is the highest amount of cash from operations that our company has ever reported. Of this amount, we returned $3.7 billion to our share owners through dividends and share repurchase. We paid dividends of approximately $2.2 billion with per share amounts of dividends increasing by 10% over the prior year. And we have purchased $1.5 billion of our company stock. We also continued to reinvest in our business. We invested $812 million in capital expenditures. And we spent $359 million to acquire brands and/or bottling operations.  

Looking forward, we also expect strong cash flows to continue. And in 2004, we expect to allocate at least $2 billion to share repurchase. With such strong cash flows, we are also focused on maintaining a very efficient capital structure. As of the end of the year, our net debt to net capital ratio was 12.1%, a level well below our historical average. In addition, our return on capital is a healthy 24.5% and our return on equity was about 34% for the year. Looking forward, we expect our capital structure and our returns to remain very strong.  

Now, let me make a few comments about several of the factors that impacted our results this past year, and the outlook for these items for 2004 as well. First, let me start with taxes. Our earnings per share benefited this past year from a reduction in our tax rate. The reported effective tax rate for the year was 20.9%. And this includes the tax effect of a variety of items, including the streamlining initiatives; benefits associated with various tax resolutions during the year; and benefits from strong profit contributions from lower tax locations, where currencies also had a favorable impact.  

Overall, we are very pleased that this rate came in lower than we had originally anticipated at the beginning of the year because this had a real economic benefit to our company and shareholders, as lower tax payments directly improves cash flows, and returns.  

To give you a little background, our underlying effective tax rate in the year 2002 was a little over 27%. As 2003 progressed, we were able to continue to bring the rate down, based on a variety of tax planning strategies, and a resolution of various tax disputes. Several of the factors that benefited our tax rate are sustainable and will continue to benefit us in the future, and several other items cannot be counted on to recur every year. I am confident that nearly two points of our rate reduction from 2002 are sustainable for the foreseeable future, as they are based on our outlook for country profitability growth and equity income, and exchange rates.  

However, as we look into 2004, we are not anticipating that we will have the same level of tax resolutions and benefits as we did this past year. As such, the underlying effective tax rate on operations is expected to be approximately 25.5% in 2004. As of right now, this is our best estimate for the rate for the coming year.  

As I know you can appreciate, as a company that does business in 200 countries, our taxes can be quite complex, and there are many variables that can move the rate. But just to reiterate, for modeling purposes, if you do detailed modeling, my best estimate for a sustainable effective tax rate for 2004 is 25.5%. If I believe it will be different from that during the year, I will tell you.  

Lastly, we recognize that this is a higher rate than 2003 and it will negatively impact the company's earnings per share growth rate in 2004. We're okay with that. Since we're making a lot more money and the long term economic benefits associated with our improved tax position are very positive for the shareholders.  

Now, let me turn to currency trends. Keep in mind that over 80% of our profits come from outside the United States and therefore we are clearly impacted by currency trends. In fact, as many of you know, currencies are our major drag on our results during the years from 1996 through 2002. Fortunately, the trends have started to change and we're now getting a bit of a benefit.  

In 2003, currencies benefited our operating income for the year by approximately 2%. This has been driven by the strength in the euro, partially offset by less attractive year over year hedge rates on the yen and weakness in Latin America currencies.  

Looking to 2004, if exchange rates on major currencies remain at similar levels as they are today, we should also get benefits in 2004 that will help our bottom line. However, with regard to the price -- the precise amount of the currency benefit in 2004, I think it is premature to quantify an amount.  

Several factors could impact the amount of currency benefit we receive in the current year. First, we will not get the full benefit of the spot rate movement of the Japanese yen since we were protected in 2003 at rates better than spot. Second, we're in the process of putting option coverage in place for the current year to protect the downside risk of the yen, the euro, and sterling. Remember, there is a cost of these options, making our effective rate lower than the spot rates you're seeing in the market. Third, we operate all over the world, and therefore, all currency moves must be considered, not just the euro and the yen. For example, the 20% devaluation in Venezuela last week.  

Now, let me turn to equity income. Equity income increased 6% on a reported basis. Excluding the charge by Latin America equity investing in the third quarter, equity income increased 28% during the year. This strong growth demonstrates a result of strategies that are leading to improved health of all of the key bottlers throughout the worldwide Coca-Cola system. We have made significant progress in terms of improving our relationships and implementing numerous joint initiatives to make our system even more efficient and improve both of our returns. We would expect equity income to continue to be a strong contributor in 2004. Just as our bottling system is becoming more efficient, we are also very focused on cost management and driving inefficiencies out of our company.  

Before I wrap up, let me discuss one item that impacts those of you who keep detailed quarterly models on our company. First, just to remind you, we have a policy of not providing specific earnings per share guidance for quarters, or for the full year and we are going to continue adhering to that policy. However, I think it is important for you to recognize items that could impact our quarterly estimates, specifically as they relate to how the flow of gallon shipments is expected to occur in 2004.  

On a full-year basis in 2004, I expect that unit cases and gallons will have similar growth rates. This is consistent with what I would expect in any year. However, on a quarterly basis, because of the way our quarterly calendar works, gallons will be impacted by a shift in the number of shipping days in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter of 2004. When comparing to last year, the first quarter of '04 will have more shipping days and the fourth quarter of '04 will have less than the same period for last year.  

Just to be clear. This shift in shipping days will only impact gallon shipments or revenues, but it will not impact unit case sales. Unit case sales are reported on an average daily sales basis and therefore are not affected by the shift in shipping days. So let me cut to the chase on what this means.  

Gallon shipments are expected to be slightly ahead of unit cases in the first quarter. Gallon shipments are expected to be slightly behind unit cases in the fourth quarter. Therefore, if you are building quarterly models, you should expect earnings growth to be a little stronger in the first quarter and a little weaker in the fourth quarter.  

To sum up, our success in 2003 reflects the enduring strength of the Coca-Cola Company. We have continued to reach new heights when it comes to financial performance. We are sharing our success across the entire system as evidenced by the improving financial strength of our bottling partners. We have a broad portfolio of brands to satisfy all of our consumers beverage needs, and we continue to strengthen our leadership position in key beverage categories worldwide. We expect 2004 to be a strong year as we continue to execute our six strategic priorities, and as we continue to focus on profitable growth, aggressive cost management, and strong financial fundamentals.  

With that, we'd love to move to your questions. Operator?  

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to remind everyone, if you would like to ask a question, please press star, then the number one on your telephone key pad. We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster.  

Your first question comes from Andrew Conway of CSFB.  

ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, gentlemen.  

Steve and Doug, a question on North America profit growth and Japan profit growth for '04. North America profits were down 1% for the year. Asia was down 6, largely -- partly driven by Japan. Strategically, as you look at the North America retail business, and food service business, what changes in your mind from category, your own brands driving revenue or cost structure, to get improved profit performance? And from the Japanese standpoint on the market, what is driving some of the category stabilization? And talk a little bit about what are some of the real brand focuses that will lead some of the unit growth in Japan this year?  

STEVE HEYER: Andrew, hi, this is Steve.  

Let me take the North America part of that first. A big piece of what's different year on year is that we're seeing a food service -- on the food service side, we're seeing the business strengthen. The underlying business strengthen. We are very, very optimistic that in food service, we have the right set of services and the right service structure for us to continue to efficiently deliver quality service that is frankly unmatched in the industry. We think that our performance in North America was dragged down by water profitability, and lack of demand for juice that we're not seeing at present and don't believe will continue throughout the year.  

We have made adjustments in our economic model in water, which give me confidence that it won't be a drag going forward. The brand price pack channel work that we've engaged with CCEN is already paying dividends and as our package portfolio expands, our margins will improve and we will get both price and volume, not just price, which was a piece of the story last year in North America. You know, I don't know if Doug, you have anything you want to add to that?  

DOUG DAFT: The concentrate price would be a little higher.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Thanks.  

STEVE HEYER: With respect to Japan profit growth, we described in December that we had taken aggressive steps to make the supply company work, at the same time we have taken aggressive steps to drive incremental demand, and the market is coming back in a bunch of places. We're seeing supermarket sales improve. We're seeing mix improve. We're seeing vending up. We have programs in place that we think will cause that to continue. So it is underlying demand, it is cost management, and it is mix, both by channel and by key brand set that I think will give us some lift in Japan. Mary, you want to add to that?  

MARY MINNICK, HEAD OF ASIA GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yeah, Andrew, I think you said what did -- why are categories stabilizing.  

As you know our fourth quarter improved in particularly in December significantly in Japan, that was driven by vending and in particular Georgia Coffee. Most notable was the fact that we launched a premium price coffee for 130 yen instead of the traditional 120. So not only was it a higher margin because it was coffee but because of a higher retail price point.  

We didn't choose to participate in some of the dramatic large PET pricing that occurred in the fourth quarter in Japan. We saw PET prices go as low as 138, 148 yen.  

Moving forward, as I've said consistently, we will launch new packages, and new price points in supermarkets to deal with the supermarket channel. So we think we've got vending back on track and by the first two weeks in March, you will see an entirely new package set in the supermarkets, with new merchandising, and new price points to deal with that channel as well. Which should accelerate the stabilization of the channels in Japan.  

STEVE HEYER: Andrew, we also have dedicated packages and product offerings in vending, which is part of the reason why vending is up and we've done a lot of redesign of what machines themselves look like, which I've got a lot of heart for, and as you know, if we can just stay the erosion and get a little bit of growth in terms of channel mix, it is an enormous boost to profits.  

LARRY MARK: Steve and Mary, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody.  

LARRY MARK: Good morning.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Trying to get comfortable, in the fourth quarter, the currency neutral operating profit is up around 2% and you've done a lot of talking especially in December about the focus on improving operating profit and margin expansion. I just want to try to get some comfort on -- in the quarter you have the 2% price, the 1% to 2% mix in the revenue line. Is it that in '04, a lot of the value strategies being put in place, and the supply chain savings are going to flow more through the Coca-Cola company's P&L, than we're seeing? Even though you're in the early innings of the starting and the bottlers have been working on this value strategy that it really begins to flow into the Coke's P&L versus in '02? And in the fourth quarter, is there some, with the volume came in below plan, so the spending levels were locked in for higher volume levels and that's why we only see the 2% profit growth and accelerates so much looking at the '04?  

GARY FAYARD: Bill, this is Gary. Let me see if I can address that.  

As Steve said, in the prepared remarks, we weren't happy for -- in the full year on operating income growth, but we're feeling better during the year, and so specifically, if I go to the fourth quarter, if you look at the segment data, what you will see in the fourth quarter, if you adjust for comparability factors, you would see that operating income growth, of the operating units is actually up 10%. Now granted, that is helped by currency as well, but it is up 10, you will see a large increase in SG&A in corporate, which is actually a timing of expenses between years, and it is really an '02, and not an '03 issue. But I would expect to not have those kinds of increases going forward in '04 because it is really the comparability of '02 where the difference was. So we're starting to see operating income growth in the operating units and we would expect to see that continue.  

You mentioned margins. I think -- let me address margins as well. You will see a couple of things on margins. There are some factors that are impacting margins, starting first, part -- a large part of it is the German bottler. As the German bottler continues to increase and we would expect to see the German bottling operations actually improve in '04, significantly from the deposit law change that impacted them in '03, that will have an impact on profit margins, although profits themselves will increase from that. And we also had some impact of dollar-based expenses in Latin America, in cost of goods in Latin America, as some of those currencies devalued last year that put some pressure on margins. But I guess we are very confident that the steps we've put in place in '03 will continue to improve operating income going forward into '04.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

LARRY MARK: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Greenberg with Deutsche Banc.  

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Good morning. Just a quick follow-up question on the gross margin and then a shareholder value question.  

Is some of the underlying improvement in gross margin that you're talking about in 2004 to some extent benefiting from dollar-based goods that are going to get a currency boost, if you will, in terms of procurement in local markets?  

GARY FAYARD: Marc, this is Gary. Can you give me a little bit more so I can --  

MARC GREENBERG: Well, you know, some commodity goods, aluminum, PET, some other goods, and certain local markets in Europe and Japan are dollar-based. And you know the extent to which your company-owned bottling operations procured those locally, or you're getting them at a relatively cost advantage basis, is that something that we can look at from a gross margin basis as beneficial in 2004?  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, I think Marc, there will probably be some of that. I mean you're right, some of the commodities, if you will, packaging, PET, and some of those things are dollar-based and there could be some impact, but that's not the real big impacts.  

Some of the other impacts that hit us, a couple of other things that have put some pressure on the margins, but I think you will see less of it going forward as we continue to improve the steps we've taken. For example, is the German bottler, I was talk about the German bottler, the German bottler is also doing a lot of co-packing right now, for the other bottlers in Germany. And as it does that, basically does it on a cost, you know, a neutral basis, so it is hitting revenues and cost of goods at the same amounts, so it is impacting margins, with a little return just for the capital employed.  

In Japan, actually, in the supply chain management company, same kind of thing. When we formed it, as you know, there is a large structural impact from that, both in revenues and cost of goods, but in addition to that, most of -- all of the lines from the tea company, we've actually now leased to the supply chain management company, and so there is some amounts going through again, revenues, and cost of goods, with very little margin in there. So it has put some pressure, as the other operating units around the world continue to improve, as we saw them starting to improve in the fourth quarter, we would anticipate seeing margins expand.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thanks.  

Gary, just with regards to shareholder initiative. You've talked about lower cap ex, increased bottler profitability, and relatively low company leverage. And you've also talked about increasing share repurchase to $2 billion but with a debt to total cap so low, couldn't we start thinking about more significant levels of share repurchase as we start moving through '04 and '05?  

GARY FAYARD: Yeah, Marc, the reason I said -- I think I used the words at least $2 billion, that is, and I've talked with you about this before, I think, but it is really around the debt ratings of the system, the Coca-Cola Company, and the system.  

And as part of our commitment to the Coca-Cola system around the world, part of that is to maintain the debt ratings because it has a large impact on their costs of doing business. And so as we progressed through the year, and as we actually show you and the rating agencies the progress that we believe we we'll be making in '04 that we're very confident of, then we will be re-evaluating our capital structure, our share repurchase amounts, and those kinds of things. But it's one that I would continue to update you as we go forward during the year, but I would continue to believe that as our cash flows improve, that we would accelerate even more in 2005 in share repurchase.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thanks, Gary.  

Just follow on that, with regards to currency, potential currency benefit in 2004. Are you assuming can kind of a currency neutral outcome in '04 to get to that $2 billion number? And if currency is a positive variance, would that be incremental share repurchase?  

GARY FAYARD: Marc, it is too early to tell quite honestly. I think it is fair to say that probably a little bit of currency impact in my $2 billion number. I think it's, we wait and see how currency is actually come out during the year and then I will continue to update you each quarter as we move forward, as to kind of -- what it looked like, and then what we expect the share repurchase to be during the year.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you, Gary.  

LARRY MARK: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Faucher with J.P. Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. A quick question.  

Steve, you had commented in your remarks, I believe it was your remarks, about the focus on investing in core brands, and I hate to sort of harp on this margin issue. Can you talk about where you think you are in terms of the investment cycle? Obviously over the past couple of years, a little bit less operating profit growth on a currency neutral basis than we would have liked to have seen.  

Do you feel you've gotten the investment level up to where it needs to be? Or do you think, are we still in investment mode as opposed to, let's say, harvesting mode and harvesting is probably too strong a term there.  

STEVE HEYER: I think we constructed business plans this year that give proper weight to our core brands. So if that means we have reached steady state, I guess that would be the way I would tell it. I mean our first commitment, John, as you know, is to ensure that we have a strong a business as we can and we don't want to do anything to starve our core brands.  

One of the reasons we have shifted dollars from operating expenses aggressively as we have this past year, was to free up money for our DME. We've also been working very hard to get our working DME numbers up and our nonworking DME numbers down. Said another way, productivity for the system in marketing. I believe those actions taken together put us in a place where we have the funds we need, steady state, to deliver against the kind of long-term expectations we describe, and at the same time grow the strength of our brands and both our volume and value share. And so I think we're there there.  

JOHN FAUCHER: So you think DME is roughly at the right levels but that the productivity can be improved going forward?  

STEVE HEYER: Yes, that's right. And obviously, you know, there's -- if there are opportunities for more, we will not starve the brands. We have committed as a leadership team to ensure that our core business is robust, and we have made adjustments year on year in our plan, so as you see the year unfold, I think you will see in key markets for key brands that our DME is up but not at the expense of our profitability.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Can you give us a -- one last follow-up. Can you give us a quick idea in terms of what DME was up year over year in '03?  

STEVE HEYER: John, I think it was up --Ill check for sure but I think it was up around 7% and there is some currency benefit in there as well.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

STEVE HEYER: You bet.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Caroline Levy with UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody.  

I'm just wondering if you could dig a little bit into Europe, given that you are going to be mapping a very hot summer, as well as some very successful product innovations in Europe. As well as currency. So if you could just talk about some programs and what your outlook is for particularly the second and third quarter challenges there.  

LARRY MARK: Sandy, why don't you handle it?  

"SANDY" ALLAN, HEAD OF EUROPE, EURASIA, AND MIDDLE EAST GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Hello, Caroline.  

I mean it is true that we had a good summer in -- not all of Europe but in Western Europe, less so in Eastern Europe and in Russia, so our business did benefit for that. But throughout the year, we have been investing in immediate consumption, we've been investing in light brands, we've been investing in Powerade which has a very high profit contribution. But the way that we structured our business plan for 2004, I feel confident that we will be able to cycle the benefit that we did get from the weather in 2003, on the basis that we will have an average summer as opposed to hot summer.  

And as I say, I'm confident that the programs that we have, and particularly for example with Euro 2004, which you may or may not know, is a premiere soccer tournament that the whole of the Europe will be involved in. And for the first time, we will have a pan European promotion, in other words every country will be doing it in the same way, using the same mechanics and technique, so I'm excited about what we will be able to do in Europe in 2004. And feel confident we will be able to cycle the so-called hot summer this year.  

CAROLINE LEVY: If I just may ask for an update on Mexico, just, you know, obviously the competitive (INAUDIBLE)-- changed a little bit with key brands and Pepsi is making a much stronger effort to, you know, regain share and grow there. If you could just update us on the fourth quarter look there, and what the outlook is?  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES, HEAD OF LATIN AMERICA GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Caroline, hi, this is Patcho.  

The fourth quarter outlook for Mexico, we had a good fourth quarter. We continue with our strong performance in Mexico. When you look at the absolute number, you see the decline because of the risk of transaction that occurred in 2002 and the comparison therefore was on the fourth quarter of '03 versus the fourth quarter of '02.  

You saw that decline in the way of the business had been growing in the first three quarters. Now, the business environment in Mexico, of course, is more competitive than what it has been in the past, but we have seen that we have a very strong brand equity in Mexico. We have done very, very tailored and very clear packaging, price, and brands strategy. Would he have been very successful with our other brands, with our CSDs, we continue to gain and maintain our share and we're very confident with the outlook of Mexico in 2004 as we go forward.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Christine Marcus with Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much.  

Just to get into the regions a little bit and to make sure I understood Mexico. Were volumes actually down on a year over year basis, or did the growth rates simply come down from the first three quarters of the year? And can you comment at all about the acquired growth or what acquisitions contributed to your volumes in Europe and the company as a whole for the year?  

LARRY MARK: Christine, this is Larry. Actually Patcho was talking about the trend line decline but the gross was actually positive 2% in the fourth quarter in Mexico.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: Okay.  

LARRY MARK: And then acquired growth actually had a minimal benefit to the company in the fourth quarter, and for the full year, as you may recall early in the year, there was both the risk of transaction and also the Denoen transaction, so it was a little more than a point on a full year basis.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Okay. Great. And Gary, could you tell us what the currency impact was on your top line or break it apart from your pricing mix growth?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, as I have said for the full year, currency on net income was about two points, on revenues, it was about -- I would say about -- I would think it was about five points.  

LARRY MARK: On a full year basis.  

GARY FAYARD: On a full year basis.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: Okay. And in the fourth quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: In the fourth quarter, a little bit, it was seven on revenue and five at operating income.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: Okay. Great.  

And a final question, perhaps for Steve, can you -- you touched on this a little bit, can you comment on the profit trends in your non-carbonated businesses, especially in North America but also around the world? Given the investment, are you seeing the kind of profit improvements that you had planned for by now?  

STEVE HEYER: Well, subject to market movement, I will have to give you the answer, because of the demand swing that we saw in juice. So let me kind of take it in pieces.  

Powerade is doing everything that we had expected from a profitability point of view and more. The same would be true of Dasani. Given what happened at the low end of the water market, we were a little disappointed with the profits associated with our Dannon business.  

And given under performance of the entire juice category, we didn't have a pricing problem so much as we had a general demand problem. We've made some adjustments in our pricing. We have reset ourselves and our margins look good going forward for really all the noncarbs in North America. When you look at the rest of the world, it is a very mixed situation.  

Japan noncarb business is, from a profit point of view; fantastic. Same would be true across most of Western Europe. Noncarbs don't mean very much as a percent of our business in Latin America or in Africa. And I don't know if there is any more to that story, you want me to tell you, I'm happy to, but what I tried to do is just paint an overarching picture.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: That's terrific. Thank you very much.  

STEVE HEYER: You bet.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Cohen with Goldman Sachs.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. This is a question for Mary. Most of my other questions are answered.  

Mary, I understand that tonight or you know, Thursday in Japan, that CCJC is going to do a briefing, and talk about some of the market initiatives and how the supply chain management company is working. Can you just give us a sense of exactly what, you know, what will be talked about there? What are the key messages for that briefing?  

MARY MINNICK: Yeah, a couple of key messages. Key message number one is of course clarification on the supply chain management company and what we expect.  

We've gone on record as saying that we actually believe the benefits to supply chain this year are ahead of what we initially projected and we are predicting $100 million in cost savings this year alone which has accelerated. We are very very pleased with the progress the supply management company has made and we believe those benefits will accelerate even more as the carbonated soft drink side of it comes into play next year.  

The second thing we are going to talk about is our focus on doing the doable in the last quarter, which was to turn the business around, we concentrated on vending. And we did that through innovation, and specific product initiatives and that was successful.  

We want to talk about how we plan to extend that innovation to other channels that have been problematic for us, like supermarket. And again, we will be talking about our new price pack strategy in supermarkets that we started to reveal to retailers but has not yet hit the market. We will also talk about core brands. We are relaunching almost every single core brand this year in terms of a new campaign for Coke, Sokenbicha, and we're supporting that with a whole new merchandising strategy in, not only national supermarkets but regional supermarkets, so the look of our products and our shelves will be different. So all-in-all, it's a combined package focusing on cost management, accelerating what we've already been able to do in vending, addressing the supermarket issue.  

MARC COHEN: And on the accelerated timing of these cost savings, and the scope of them, how will that be presented as affecting the bottler profitability? Because I think my perception has been there has been a subdued optimism about how bottler profitability will be enhanced by -- through these cost savings. Do you have a message on that as well?  

MARY MINNICK: Yeah, well, I guess, you know, 100 million cost savings in a 12-month period is fairly significant for our system and of course the majority of that benefit flows through to our bottlers. So we're rather enthusiastic about that. So that's about as positive as I can get on it. The fact that we are significantly ahead of trend.  

Importantly, our bottlers have taken the initiative to make hard decisions about what lines go into the supply chain management company, and which lines don't. And that will significantly and positively and ultimately affect their cost structure.  

We also continue to see accelerated advantages through the pool procurement effort. For example, on IT, you know, we are investing in IT, so that all the bottling systems can talk to each other, to make supply chain more effective. And they've agreed on a cost efficient but highly effective IT strategy.  

MARC COHEN: Great. Thanks.  

LARRY MARK: Operator, we have time for just one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Carlos Laboy with Bear Stearns.  

CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning. Brazil, the market that is being very profoundly transformed, could you rank for us what you think have been the most important changes there? How far along you are in fixing this market? And what are some of the top changes that we might see in 2004? Lastly, by what benchmarks should we measure progress in Brazil as we go forward?  

JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Carlos, Patcho again.  

Yes, you're right, in Brazil, our system is enhancing our business model and we're trying to focus more on balancing volume growth with margin expansion and create value actually for the whole system. Volumes have not been up to where we wanted it to be this year but our operating income has benefited greatly from this new approach, of grade and value in Brazil.  

Actually, the entire system profits have increased by close to 50% this past year in local currency basis, that is on real basis. We are working very hard, very diligently with our bottlers to roll out an aligned package and pricing strategy, a strategy that emphasizes differentiating our brand, more consistent prices, and working even harder on that.  

We have new portable packages, both refillable and one way presentations. These packages are being introduced to provide greater choice to consumers and allow our system to structurally tailor our customer options based on the channel strategy with the clear intent of rising revenue growth.  

What the basis for measuring this? I think that the alignment in our system, bottlers and company working together, the customer capability, our ability to deliver that strategy at the point of sales. The movement of certain packages, of certain prices, being less reliable - or reliant in certain channels, and lastly, I think that we have to, one of our best bottlers working in Brazil, now Coca-Cola Femsa and Andina are there and we are very confident that we will continue growing in this new model as we build it in 2004.  

CARLOS LABOY: Thank you.  

LARRY MARK: Thank you, everyone for joining us this morning. If you have any follow-up questions, feel free to call Investor Relations and we will get to all your questions today. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Coca-Cola Company conference call. You may now disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040225e02b000jv
  


 HD
 Q3  2003 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,054 words
   PD
16 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company Conference Call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded.(operator instructions) I would now like to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations who will begin the conference. Mr. Mark, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK, AVP AND DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Appreciate you joining us this morning. I'm pleased to be joined this morning by Steve Heyer, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, our Senior Operating Officer, Sandy Allan, Alex Cummings, Jeff Dunn and Mary Minnick, our President would be available for the Q & A session.  

   TD
Unfortunately, (inaudible) is not able to join us this morning. Our prepared comments will provide a brief overview on the high level aspects that are going on in the quarter. We intend to leave plenty of room for your Q & A, (inaudible) Q & A, which we will be able to dig into more topics in greater detail. During the Q & A, please be considerate about others and limit yourself to one question during your turn.  

Before we get started, I'd like to remind everybody that this conference call may contain forward looking statement, including statements concerning long term volume and earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with our cautionary statements contained in the earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the company's most recent form 10K.  

In addition, I will also like to call to your attention the fact that we have posted a schedule on our Web site at " http://www.cocacolacompany.com"  www.cocacolacompany.com " http://www.cocacola.com"  www.cocacola.com in the investor section which will reconcile our results reported under GAAP to certain non-GAAP measures which may be referred to by our senior executives in our discussions this morning and from time to time when we're discussing our financial performance. So, please take a look at our web site. Now let me turn things over to Steve.  

STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT AND COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks a lot, Larry. And thanks to all of you for joining us this morning. I'm only going to talk for about 15 minutes. I think, to set the stage, and that will leave maximum time to take the questions. But in the past, you've heard me use the words please, but not satisfied, to characterize our results. That continues to be my perspective as I look at our third quarter results. We're pleased but, we are not satisfied. I'm pleased with the earnings, we have reported and I'm pleased with our performance in many of our markets, however we still have opportunities for improvement and those opportunities we want to discuss with you today. Overall, our growth continues to outpace the industry, in key beverage categories in many markets around the world.  

We're very focused on driving profitable volume growth through excellent marketing and brand building activities and we're concentrating on strengthening our relationships with consumers and customers while also improving the efficiency of the system and taking costs out of the business. That's really fundamental to what we think our opportunity is going forward to improve our overall results. We continued to focus on accelerating the growth of our carbonated soft drinks led by coke.  

In the quarter, trademark Coca-Cola was up 3% internationally which was driven by China, up 21%, Argentina, up 15%, Great Britain up 9%, France up 8%, Spain up 6%. This along with solid contributions from our other brands resulted in worldwide volume increases of 4% in both the quarter and year to date. So, our reported earnings per share for the quarter were 50 cents which included a 1 cent reduction related to streamlining and a 4 cents 9 (inaudible) for latest to the right down of assets in Latin America by Spencer, as a result of their merger with Pan Amco (ph).  

For the purpose of comparing the last year, if these items are excluded, our earnings would be 55 cents versus an adjusted 45 cents for the prior year, which is an increase in EPS of 22%. Increase in earnings by 22%, an accomplishment that we are satisfied with. As we get our economics reset, and our infrastructure resized, we're expecting to see recurring operating leverage that we're all committed to. So, looking at the third quarter, our financial performance reflects 4% growth in both unit case volume and gallon shipments, solid, very solid growth in revenues, strong on drawing equity income growth and a favorable variance in our tax expense.  

Gary is going to talk about these items in a moment, but before he does, I'd like to make a couple of comments about our operating income growth and the contributions from below the line items. Our underlying operating income in the third quarter and year to date are at record levels. But we need to get them even greater growth in operating income for us to be satisfied. We have had several unusual items that have affected our operating income in the quarter, and this year, and I'm confident that we are on track to deliver consistent, solid operating income growth.  

Now, with regard to growth and equity income in savings and tax expenses, these are both had real economic benefits for us and we're pleased with the trends in these areas. Healthy equity income from our bottling partners is a direct consequence, a direct consequence of the actions that we've taken to grow system profits, working in partnership with our bottlers. Lower tax payments are also a direct result of our business strategies. We're going to continue to pursue tax-planning strategies which have a favorable impact on our earnings.  

Now, overall, we've been able to manage the balance of our business by looking at a portfolio of countries and an expectation that when one zigs, another zags, and that on a total basis, it gives us the opportunity to consistently deliver solid results. Our top 15 markets really have been driving our performance in both volume terms, and operating income terms. We aren't overly reliant, and this is important, on any one or two markets. We're managing and balancing our portfolio.  

On the profit side, we've send turn-arounds in markets such as Germany and Brazil as we promised last year. But in a few of the other markets, we still face some challenges. What I'd like to do this morning is talk about several specific operations. Some of these are performing very well, and some have had a more difficult year than we anticipated back in January.  

First, let's talk about Japan, one of our challenges this year. Monthly volume trends in Japan fluctuated significantly during the quarter, with July and August down approximately 11%, due to unusually cool and wet weather in July and August, and continued weakness in consumer confidence in Japan. Those together contributed to a very tough economic climate. In September, much to our pleasure, our sales have rebounded with growth of 4% while cycling 7% growth from the prior year. And key categories grew in excess of 5%.  

We also re-launched Georgia Coffee in September, with the new campaign and extensive line of new products and multiple consumer promotions and since the start of that re-launch, average weekly count sales have increased sharply and our share of sales in the coffee category has increased by three points.  

Looking forward, I know some of you have some fear about the future of Japan's economics. Let me be very clear. Japan is not imploding, and we are implementing a long-term plan that will assure profitable growth for our system in Japan. The plan is very straightforward and it has four legs. First, to enhance consumer excitement in the critical vending channel with new man machines, new technologies, new products, new creative and better service.  

Second, to improve profitability in supermarkets by leveraging our worldwide expertise to increase our share of value through packaging and merchandising innovation. Third, to accelerate the rollout of innovative high margin new products such as premium functional beverages, and fourth, to make our entire bottling system more efficient in Japan.  

Now, related to this last point, as of October 1, we began the first phase of the integrated supply chain management company to centralize procurement, production and logistics operations for the entire Coca-Cola system in Japan. By 2007, this will deliver over $250 million in annual savings to the system in Japan. As we captured these gains in productivity, we will invest in top line programs to drive growth.  

Moving to an area that's performed exceptionally well in this quarter, Europe, the European SBU grew unit basis 9% in the third quarter continuing to improve trend. Thanks to strong growth in France, Spain, Great Britain and Italy, as well as I'm delighted to report solid growth in Germany. Europe has done well. The German results are a function of a huge amount of work to reset the business that is now paying dividends. The group's strong performance was led by 7% growth in carbonated beverages led by trademark Coca-Cola growth of 5% and trademark sprite growth of 8%. Non-carbonated beverages grew by 45%, fueled by strong growth in power aide, juice drinks and energy drinks.  

Our brand, packed and channel strategies are focused on profitable, immediate consumption and that's really benefited with the favorable weather in July and August. For example, in France, we saw 28% growth in the profitable 500 MLPET package and 9% growth in overall immediate consumption packages. In Spain, another interesting example, we had growth of 19% in 500 MLPET and 10% growth in overall immediate consumption packages.  

Looking ahead for Europe, we may not have the same temperature levels, but we will have the same solid execution, and the same accurate, and committed team and strategy to drive away from home occasions while effectively managing our costs. We see tremendous opportunities to expand our business in Europe and Sandy and the team are doing a great job in capturing them.  

But, I'd be remiss if I didn't big a little deeper into our position in Germany where I said we've returned this business to positive territory in the third quarter. This quarter volume increased 4% compared to flat performance in Q2 and a sharp decline in Q1, which was the result of the mandatory deposit law change. Growth was driven by trademark coke increasing 2% and 15% growth in sprite. Non-carbs grew 86% since most of the products were not subject to deposit.  

Although the environment is been difficult, we feel good about where we are now, focusing on returnable, refillable packages, which have increased their share of package mix to merely 95%. We are working very closely with our customers and regulators in Germany, and we're very pleased with our system's ability to offer flexible alternatives while not losing sight of our primary goal which is to build and to continue to build strong equity in our brands with consumers.  

We feel good about the fourth quarter as well. Now, let me switch gears again, This time to India, which has had unexpected and I might add inaccurate challenges in the third quarter. Unit case volume declined this quarter following several consecutive quarters of strong double digit growth. Beginning in August, the entire beverage industry in India was rocked by false accusations that soft drinks in India contained high levels of pesticides. Following the accusations, we moved very quickly providing facts to the Indian government with the consumers to reassure them that our products were in fact safe. We worked closely with our primary competitor, Indian politicians and our customers to ensure that the facts are clear and communicated very much widely throughout India.  

Looking forward, even though our unit case volume trends have stabilized over the past couple of weeks. We continue to monitor this situation very carefully. While sales of our 200 ML returnable glass bottles are solid, reinforcing the merits of our affordability strategy, our sales of larger packages remain weak due to confusion and concern among moms. We have done a lot of market research and we know we still have an issue to ensure that people have a sense of confidence and trust in the category and we've developed multimedia consumer campaigns to address these concerns by reinforcing the safety and benefits of our products.  

Now I'll talk about China, which has rebounded quickly from a crisis. In China, we had strong volume growth, 24% during the third quarter, cycling 13% growth from the prior year. Our business experience does a very swift post-SARS recovery because of vigorous execution because of vigorous sales and marketing programs across the entire portfolio. Coca-Cola and sprite were both up 22%, and above average 18% growth continued for Fanta. China's affordability strategy is working, and has driven returnable bottle growth to approximately 30% in the towns and rural areas where it's been launched. So, we're very optimistic in comfortable planning on continued strong performance in China. And now, North America.  

In the quarter, the group delivered 1% volume growth while cycling 9% volume growth from prior year, as a result of this successful launch of vanilla coke. A CCE suggested yesterday, our system remains focused on maximizing value for the entire category with a balanced price and volume approach, and we're enthusiastic about this approach to the business, with our bottling partners recognizing consistent increases in retail price, which we believe is critical to system health.  

Our retail customers are also benefiting as we have had significant role to play in driving retail dollar increases in the carbonated soft drink category this year. Alignment is key to our success together. We're working very closely as we develop the best approach for creating value in North America today, and going forward. In the quarter, our retail division grew 1%, cycling 13% growth in the prior year. In 2003, we've been able to lead growth in the beverage category by focusing on the health of all of our brands, especially the big ones.  

Our core CSD brands continue to advance with Coca-Cola Classic showing an improving trend with Diet Coke Trademark growing 8% in the quarter. Vanilla Coke and Diet Vanilla Coke continue to hold their share position, as increased activity has led to expansion of the Vanilla flavor category. In addition, the Sprite Trademark has been reinvigorated by the successful rollout of Sprite Remix, leading to 7% growth in share increase revenues in CSD category. Non-carb growth in the quarter was led by the acceleration of both the Sun and PowerAde, increasing by 16% and 21% respectively.  

We are very pleased with the share gains we see in the both water and sports drinks. In the water category, we are fine-tuning our three-tier water strategy, which has been well received by our customers. We're working to create a clear distinction in our packaging channel strategy across these tiers and we're seeing it pay off. These strong results were offset by continued softness in our warehouse delivered juice brands due to overall category weakness. Despite the strong performance of Simply Orange which is reaching consumers in over 90% of the country, we were not able to overcome industry declines across the chilled and shelf stable categories.  

In the food service and hospitality advice, you know it is fountain. We continue to see improvement quarter to quarter with Q3 growth of 1%, thanks to accelerating trends during the quarter in the restaurant business. We're looking forward here, and we're confident that we can improve system profits through volume growth, bolstering an already strong marketing calendar for the core brands, innovation, package mix and price realization will be the key. We also continue to streamline our operations to ensure that we have the most efficient organization. Before I wrap up, let me touch on Mexico.  

This is a market that we have great brand equity and a superior business model that has continued to deliver strong results. While Mexico has the highest per capita consumption of Colas in the world, trademark Coke continues to grow. That reflects strong marketing, overall channel pricing strategy and the continued expansion of affordable packages. In fact, despite the competitive activity in this market, we have been successful in holding and strengthening our Cola share position. Carbonated beverages in Mexico were up 4%, our flavored carbonated soft drink brands grew by double digits as a result of flavor extensions and package initiatives.  

In the fast growing water category, we're benefiting from our national marketing programs behind CL, which reported 52% growth in single serve water packages. We will continue to focus our efforts on building connections with consumers through our brands in the ways that builds profits for our customers and our bottling partners. We have got a success formula in Mexico and we're continuing to work it.  

So, in summary the results in the third quarter are the result of the markets that had some very real strong performances and a few that had some very significant challenges that we don't expect to occur. Europe and Latin America were standout strengths. We had few challenges in Asia. We are clear, we're pleased with our system value creation strategy in North America while cycling tough comparisons and importantly, in many sizable markets, we have been strong, and performance in those markets remains strong, such as Mexico, China, Great Britain, Spain, France and South Africa.  

Overall, we're managing all aspects of our business to deliver profitable growth and strong earnings per share growth. I'm confident that these strategies and capabilities will continue outpacing the industry, and deliver the results, we all want. Now, let me turn things over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Steve. I'd like to take a few minutes and continue with the discussion of our financial performance in the quarter. As Steve mentioned, our results were driven by solid growth in unit cases, gallon shipments and revenue. In addition, underlying equity income growth, and a lower tax rate resulted in very strong earnings per share growth. In addition to strong earnings, our cash from operations continues to significantly improve.  

During the first nine months of this year, we generated over $4.1 billion in cash from operations, an increase of 21% when compared to the same period last year. We are very pleased with these trends, and expect strong cash flows to continue well into the future. Ever use for some of this cash, we repurchased $915 million of our stock during the first nine months of the year and still intend to spend approximately $1.5 billion during the current year. Because our cash remains so strong, I would anticipate accelerating our share repurchase levels even further next year. Also, as Steve mentioned, we have a keen focus on growing operating income.  

I'd like to spend a moment this morning discussing several items that impacted our operating income growth. On a reported basis operating income was similar to that of the prior year third quarter. This amount included the negative impact of costs associated with our streamlining initiatives that are recorded in other operating charges. If you were to exclude this, comparable operating income growth was 4%. This amount was held down by approximately one point due to increased stock option expense, and by approximately two points as a result of increased costs associated with a recently resolved legal issue and key customer matter.  

In addition, selling, general and administrative expenses were higher in the quarter versus the nine month trend due to the timing of marketing expenses. On a year to date basis, reported operating income declined by 1%. After considering the streamlining initiatives and increased stock option expenses as well as a litigation gain we had in the first quarter, comparable operating income grew 6% during the first nine months of the year. This amount is below the level of growth that we expect to deliver on a long term, sustainable basis. Unfortunately, this year had a number of fairly unique items that have had some impact on our results, but as Steve pointed out, we are focused on accelerating our growth in this area, and we are confident that we have the strategies and plans in place, to deliver consistent, strong operating profit growth.  

Now, let me expand on a couple of the items that impacted our reported results in the quarter. First, during the quarter, we took a four cent per share non-cash charge related to a write-down of certain assets in Latin America by one of our equity investees. The background behind this charge relates to the merger of Coca-Cola FEMSA and Panamco earlier this year. In connection with the merger, Coca-Cola FEMSA is doing an outstanding job and they have taken strong steps to improve the overall operations, including streamlining and integrating the operations. This has led to the closing of several distribution centers and manufacturing plants. This along with the challenging economic conditions and uncertain political situations in Venezuela, led to a determination that certain intangible assets were impaired and needed to be written down to their fair market value. As a result, we reflected a non-cash charge of $107 million in the quarter, primarily impacting the equity income line.  

Excluding this item, underlying equity income trends continue to demonstrate overall improving health of the Coca-Cola bottling system around the world. Also during the quarter, we had a 1cent per share charge resulting from the streamlining initiatives that we initiated earlier this year on a full year basis, we are anticipating that the streamlining initiatives will result in a charge of approximately $500 million on a pre-tax basis. This amount is slightly higher than the amount we previously communicated as we continue to take steps to improve our overall efficiency and effectiveness. As the charge is higher, we also expect to have increased savings next year associated with these initiatives.  

Now, let me turn to taxes. Our third quarter results benefited from an effective tax-rate that was lower than what we had previously anticipated. During the July conference call, I commented that I thought that the underlying effective tax-rate for the third and fourth quarter would be approximately 22.8%, thus making our full year rate less than 24%. Because of country mix and continued strong profit contributions from lower tax locations, where currencies are also having a favorable impact, we now anticipate that the underlying effective tax rate for the full year 2003 will be even lower than we had previously expected, and now expect the rate to be approximately 22% for the full year.  

With that said, we're required to record income tax expense for the first nine months based on the estimated effective tax rate for the full year, therefore to achieve this result, our rate in the third quarter had to be even lower, and the underlying effective tax rate in the quarter was less than 18%. This decline in the tax rate as compared to the rate that I communicated to you in the second quarter resulted in an earnings benefit of approximately 3 cents per share in the third quarter.  

Now, let's look at the expected rate for the fourth quarter and next year. The underlying effective rate for the fourth quarter, will be approximately 22%. This is only slightly lower than what I told you in July, and the additional benefit in the fourth quarter will be pretty minimal. I computed, as about half a penny on an earnings per share basis. Looking into next year, and the foreseeable future, based on current tax laws, the company's effective tax rate on operations is expected to be no more than 25.5%, which is consistent with what I communicated previously. Now, let me move to currencies.  

With the recent volatility in major currency, let me make a few comments about how those currencies impact our business. Keep in mind that over 75% of our profits come from outside the United States, and therefore we are clearly impacted by currency trends. In fact, as many of you know, currencies were a major drag on our results during the years from 1996 through 2002. Fortunately, those trends have started to change and it looks like we're now starting to get a bit of a benefit. So far this year, currencies have benefited our operating results by approximately 2%. This has been driven by the strength of the Euro, partially offset by less attractive year over year hedge rates on the Japanese yen and weakness in Latin American currencies.  

Looking at next year, if trends continue as we have seen them in recent weeks with regard to the Japanese yen and the Euro, this would benefit our earnings next year. Before we move to your questions, I want to cover one more topic to ensure that everyone understands the accounting treatment for the Japan supply chain management company. As Steve mentioned, the purpose of the initiative in Japan is just centralize procurement, production and logistics operations for the entire Coca-Cola system in Japan, and to generate cost savings that can be re invested in the business. The creation of the entity is not about shifting any profit from the Coca-Cola company to our bottling partners.  

However, the structure of the entity does shift a portion of our business from a finished product business model to a concentrate business model. Therefore, beginning October 1 of this year, net operating revenues and cost of goods sold are both expected to decrease by approximately $1 billion on an annualized basis. Both line items will go down by the same amount, and this will not impact our underlying operating income. Just by doing the math, you will see that our margins will improve, but it will have no impact on our, on our absolute gross profit or operating profit levels. Over time, this new entity will improve the overall profitability of our entire system in Japan.  

To wrap up, our industry continues to show strong growth characteristics. We continue to outpace the industry in key beverage categories in many markets around the world. We are very focused on driving profitable volume growth through excellent marketing and brand building activities. The health of our bottling partners continues to improve. We are improving the efficiency of our entire system, and driving costs out of our company and we're extremely focused on strengthening our relationships with consumers and customers.  

Our overall financial fundamentals remain very good, earnings are strong, currencies are moving in the right direction, we're generating record cash flows, our net debt to net capital levels are very low and returns are continuing to improve. Overall, I like what we're doing and we are well positioned to continue to deliver strong earnings growth and create value for our share holders. Now, let's move to your questions.  

OPERATOR: (operator instructions).  

Your first question comes from Andrew Conway with CSFB.  

ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning. Hello, Steve and Gary. Steve, I just wanted to start off about more of a macro question to gauge your strategic thinking, in terms of what in your mind do you think needs to happen to meet or exceed your annual operating profit expectations? Given inclusive of currency, 6% revenue growth, similar rate of underlying our operating income growth granted you handled the adversity of the margin pressure in Japan are very well, but as you look at organizational capability, bottling system, as you talked about, economic reset what do you, what needs to change, how do you see that changing both from kind of a revenue price volume mix and also managing your DME to achieve desired results? How should we look at how you think about that scorecard?  

STEVE HEYER: I'm glad you called that a macro question, Andrew, because, basically what you are asking is what are we going to do from now on, forever and I think that it's actually an easy question to answer. We have to drive our gross profit. We have to insure that we're getting both volume and price, and we have to do it in as cost efficient way as possible.  

We're going to drive gross profits through revenue management around the world. That's a theme that we find over and over again, as I move from market to market. The most critical thing for the system to do is figure out how to manage mix and at the same time manage rate, such that we get a balanced delivery of volume and profit.  

A key to doing that is package diversity and channel management. And I think, you can expect to see most of our markets around the world moving very aggressively, continuing to move aggressively, because we've made a lot of progress to give us the tools in the tool kit that allow us to do more than take price up in a blunt instrument way but rather surgically manage price volume by channel by brand, by package, so that we can maximize the system profitability and if we do that, our split of it will more than take care of the Coca-Cola Company.  

At the same time, we are aggressively working to make our DME more productive. We've created a hub structure of where the company which allows us to make advertising in key markets for the world rather than making advertising all over the world. That will allow us to shift dollars either to the bottom line, or to the media costs that you see as against media costs that roll up into DME that are more the result of production expense, and infra structure costs.  

And if you take all that together, it creates the demand in the right way for us to deliver against our goals. The only other piece of the puzzle is supply chain effectiveness and we continue to work with the bottlers around the world to take costs out of the system. You know we have a top to top meeting a couple of times a year where the big six bottlers which represent call it 65%, 70% of the system sit with us for a couple of days, and we have initiatives that are pretty far down the road on procurement, on supply chain issues as relates to sharing of capability, and that is starting to pay a dividend.  

We're also sharing expertise and software, where we can to take our costs out of I.T. You put all that together, and you continue to look at the discreet work we're doing on the supply chain in virtually every market around the world, and that's how we get there. Last piece of the puzzle, we are continuing to be as aggressive as we can in taking all non-mission critical expenses out of our business. We only want to invest in what generates growth.  

ANDREW CONWAY: So, as you broaden your portfolio, you're confident that your granularly in understanding that the DME to marketing expense against the broad portfolio and the consumer response rate, your volume versus price and mix allows you to greater flexibility in managing your largest discretionary costs.  

STEVE HEYER: I wish I said that. That's exactly right.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you.  

STEVE HEYER: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello(ph) of Morgan Stanley.  

WILLIAM PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. On the topic of innovation, can you talk about how you are thinking about incremental innovation versus breakthrough, whether it be package or new product and as part of that, playing the health and wellness trend around the world and what's different about the process of building the pipeline and improving the success rate versus the past?  

GARY FAYARD: Would you like me to take that question on a macro basis, bill, or would you like to hear different points of view from around the world?  

WILLIAM PECORIELLO: First on the macro basis, just in terms of the overall processes (ph) that are changing at the gross level and then some of the specifics around the world.  

STEVE HEYER: Well. As I hope all of you know, we have a gentleman here now named Danny Strickland who runs innovation, the chief innovation officer. He joined us may be six months ago from General Mills and he is really helping us get much more rigorous around how we run, how we run an innovation pipeline. I went back and looked at the history of where we were spending our money in our innovation centers, and a lot of what we were doing was worthwhile, but it was largely incremental. There's always a role for incremental, but there needs to be much more focus on breakthrough in my opinion. What we're doing is we are allowing the innovation centers to continue to do what they do best, which is to tailor the breakthrough work.  

But the breakthrough work needs to happen not at the center, but across the world in a consolidated way. So, that we get the most leverage out of our innovation spending. Danny is running the pipeline for us. He's identified against major initiatives whether they're in packaging or equipment or in new formulations. What we think is going to drive profitable growth that's meaningful and then he's building teams from all of the innovation centers from around the world so we don't duplicate any expense, and focusing them against a timeline.  

It would be our expectation and our hope that a couple of points of growth every year, once we have this up and running will come from innovation broadly defined, and then couple that with the organic growth that we expect to see in our core brands, we kind of like what our future looks like. Danny has been working on a variety of products around adult refreshment, around health and wellness and the innovation recently with heart health, Minute Maid is an example of that.  

We're looking at a whole litany of other products that we think speak to opportunity in that space. Whether it's new formulations that are somewhat fortified or in the case of Japan and all of that, I'll let Mary speak to it, something that gets closer than neutrociticals(ph). But as we looked at the winnowing down process, we put more discipline into the process so that we are satisfying ourselves, that there's big case lift and big profit lift associated with a handful of big bets and we're managing the calendar for their implementation.  

WILLIAM PECORIELLO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Cohen with Goldman Sachs and Company.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS AND COMPANY: Good morning. This kind of builds on Andrew's question, but obviously out in the investment community, there's a concern that as you continue to grow carbonates in the low single digits and a non-carbonates in the high single digit, there's a secular pressure or challenge that you face as the margin mix changes towards the non-carbs. And, Steve, I think you touched on this with brand package and channel. I wonder if you could bring better perspective to how --just how and maybe you have to go regionally, how you can bring up the margin structure of these non-carbs, you know, both through scale and both through that mixed management and may be you can just give us, your better insight about that by example.  

STEVE HEYER: Yes. The best way to do that, I think is to kind of wander around the world, because we're not unhappy with our margins in Japan. In non-carbs. Matter fact, we're delighted. We're not unhappy with our margins against a lot of our products in North America. As a matter of fact, we're pleased, and I think in Europe, you'll hear a similar story, but let's start with Sandy, because I think he's made the most progress here and then we'll, we can do our once around the world.  

SANDY ALLAN, EUROPE, EURASIA AND MIDDLE EAST, EVP, PRESIDENT AND COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning.  

MARC COHEN: Good morning.  

SANDY ALLAN: Let me go back to 2001, 95% of our business in Europe was carbonated soft drinks. This year, 2003, it will be about 88%. So, in Europe over the past two, two-and-a-half years, we have had a focus on becoming or moving towards becoming a total beverage business. Now, like any very dramatic move of that nature, there is an investment cost in doing that. But what we have seen now, if I compare 2003 to 2001, is that 80%, 85% of all of the initiatives that we have taken in the last two years, are the gross profit level earn at, earn margins at least as good as CSD's.  

The issue then becomes at grand contribution level where we have had to invest in the market. Now, our view is that establishing a new beverage can take up to three years before that new beverage will yield the same profit results as carbonated soft drinks. And in Europe, I'm very pleased to say that that is exactly where we are and if you look at Europe's volume growth over the last three years, about 5% growth, including the mix between CSD's and NCB's. But on a profit basis, compound annual growth rate, operating income is 15%. So, I'm very happy with where we are going in Europe.  

MARY MINNICK, PRESIDENT AND COO, ASIA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Mark. Hello, it's Mary. In Japan and in elsewhere in Asia, ditto what Sandy says in terms of the gross profit level. Most of our non-carbs are at or in many cases higher than carbonated soft drinks. Again, because a lot of these non-carbs are sold in single serve packages through channels such as convenience stores or on premise. So, the revenue realization to pricing on non-carbs is very favorable for non-carbs. To Sandy's point, though, DME investment sometimes takes one or two years.  

But, in a lot of cases, we are seeing, for example, Coo in China had a break-even in year one and delivered significant profit in year two. Japan because alternatively, because we can get critical mass right away because of the vending system, most of our non-carb products are profitable the minute they go out the door itself. I'd just like to emphasize that the revenue realization from non-carbs is very favorable. I think the mythology of non-carbs is being left profitable probably comes from the heyday of water when it was a larger part of the non-carb growth, but as we expand into juices and cools of the world and PowerAde's and sports drinks.  

JEFFREY DUNN, EVP AND COO, NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Marc, Jeff, also relative to the U.S., I think one of the things we're doing is to start to address this, is to scale up brands. Minute Maid is probably one of the best examples where we have got multiple platform across chilled and now the bottled brands and by creating more focus here, we get more leverage out of the DME. We are spending, so instead of trying to do it across seven or eight brands, we are focussed now in the core CSD brands, DASANI, Minute Maid in the new segment and then powered. And that is going to allow us to continue to get more leverage as we drive those brands.  

MARC COHEN: Gary or Steve, there's obviously some sense, and I think you guys were just talking on a per unit basis, if I can make that clear, but there's some sense that, you know that, on a percent margin basis, there's still this negative mix shift. Can you just bring this into perspective, as you manage brand and package and channel, I mean, can we -- do you expect this to add 100 or 200 or 300 basis points at the gross margin line? You know, or at least enough to overcome the -- you know, the switch between the two categories?  

GARY FAYARD: Let me take that, Marc, and let me add to what's been said. I think there's another item that we want to consider, because I think what Sandy and Mary and Jeff have been talking about is really about profitability, and it's about, if you will, pennies or dollars per case and not necessarily margin percentages. And in fact, if you look at the non-carbonated beverage categories, and in many cases, your costs of goods is in fact higher, and the margin percentage is lower, but the absolute profit per case, dollars per case is actually higher. For every case we sell, we make more money.  

So, I guess what -- what we're talking about here is really not about the margin percentage, but in absolute dollars how much are you -- how much are you keeping and taking to the bottom line? So, we think we will continue to make those investments because as we get scale, the margins will actually improve, even while -- even from kind of day one, the dollars profit per case is higher.  

MARC COHEN: Yes, but you can put some numbers around that, Gary? Is this something -- are you talking about a revenue mix upgrade? Can you put some numbers around that, because there is a perception that as the mix shift this is a downward margin pressure.  

GARY FAYARD: I guess, Marc, without putting numbers around it, it's more about, I would say that as what Steve said, I think in his remarks earlier, this is one of the items that we are balancing within a portfolio of countries, channels, packaging and products. So, it's really a matter of this is one aspect of many aspects of the business that we're balancing within the overall portfolio.  

MARC COHEN: All right. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mike Rocca of Lehman Brothers.  

MIKE ROCCA, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. If I may focus on North America, clearly, the balance price volume approach certainly is encouraging, and there's been increasing discussion of incidents based pricing. But my question regards CMA's and specifically, Jeff, we all know that customer marketing agreements have been a way of doing business in the U.S. for a long time. But, given the evolving category growth dynamics and changes in the retail landscape, I'm wondering how should we be thinking differently about CMA's going forward?  

JEFFREY DUNN: Yes, Mike. It plays right into what is going on with revenue management. You may have seen yesterday that CC in Terry Marks, the chief revenue officer is very encouraging. Terry is a good executive and understands this. It's a combination of that brand pack channel pricing and CMA's together that will drive this.  

And, so, what I think you're going to see here and it's going to evolve over in the next couple of years is us being much more precise about how we array those brands and packages inside channels to get as Steve said, better realization on mix. We will continue to look at rate, but balancing those two, and the CMA's are the customer structures we put in place to drive that.  

So, in the past where those would have been more about just gross volume growth, which is still an important component, they will need to balance and insure that we get the merchandising activities that allow us to execute against those brand pack channel strategies. Now, that's not going to be flipping a switch. Its going to be an evolution. We have got to test our way into it, with these new packages and these merchandising schemes with customers.  

But what we're very encouraged by, the customers want to work with us, on that too, because they're looking to expand the value of the category. So, as, we go through the next 12 months and Terry gets in place and continues to work with Dan mar and the CNG team, I think we can look at how we drive the total management approach in the U.S.  

MIKE ROCCA: And, is it fair to say that as we look beyond this year and over the next couple of years that the CMA changes will play into your concentrate pricing architecture, and is it too early for us to kind of gauge how much of an impact CMA's will have in terms of concentrate pricing, or is that 12 months down the road?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. I think it's too early to gauge exactly that relationship because it's not just CMA's, it's how do we deal with the concentrate pricing issues in light of what we're doing in partnership with the bottler, how much value is created, in essence, how the pie it created, and then how we share that between us, the bottlers and the customers. Then the key here and we revolve very focused on this , and we talk about where in New York is, we are focused on growing that pie faster. If that happens, will be a much easier exercise for us to share that pie, against the value that's created for each one of the partners in the process.  

STEVE HEYER: Mike, I'll even take it a step further in terms of definitiveness. Our goal, is to grow profit for us in North America for that system. We will do whatever we need to do, whatever we need to do to optimize that profit for the system. And, then any structure we need to adjust in order to support that commitment, we are willing to adjust, and it is, being under split is being driven by the opportunity, not the reverse.  

MIKE ROCCA: OK. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline levy of UBS.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody.  

GARY FAYARD: Good morning, Caroline.  

CAROLINE LEVY: I just wanted to touch base with Gary on share repurchase. If you could explain what the restrictions are given how enormous your free cash flow is, and your bottlers appeared to be increasing their on financial health, although (inaudible) take on some incremental leverage. Can you just talk about what it would take for the rating agencies to get much more aggressive, say to go to a $3 billion number in repurchases next year?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, thanks, Caroline. Basically, with the only constraint is with the rating agencies, and I meet with them several times a year. To go through our plans and our actual results, etc. We're focused on continuing to repurchase shares, but also focused on continuing to maintain the credit ratings of the Coca-Cola Company and the system because, the ratings of many of our bottlers are in fact contingent on the rating that we maintain with those rating agencies.  

As, what you are starting to see, actually, is in fact as you're implying, a compound effect, because as we continue to increase cash flows, and cash from operations and our earnings and as the bottlers continue to improve their earnings and in fact pay down debt levels as well, it gives us much more financial flexibility. The one-and-a-half billion is a number that I actually discussed with the rating agencies at the beginning of this year, as a share repurchase goal for this year, and I would still intend to hit that about the $1.5 billion as I said earlier.  

As, we continue and finalize our business planning process for 2004, and we do that in conjunction with our bottlers around the world, then we'll be looking at our expectations around cash flows, debt levels, earnings at ourselves and our bottlers and then would make a determination as to what the appropriate levels of share repurchase for the company are next year. I think it's too early for me to speculate other than to say that it will increase over the $1.5 billion that we have talked about this year.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thanks. If I may for Mary, just on Japan, does it require volume growth for you to grow profit in Japan?  

MARY MINNICK: I think, what is requires is revenue management as Steve talked to earlier. Volume growth in key packages, yes, is important, to maintain that revenue management and I believe we've got the plans in place to manage that particularly in the supermarkets, supermarket channel and I think September was a good example of how when we aren't faced with the head winds of dreadful weather, we can make that happen.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thanks, Mary.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Marcus(ph) of Merrill Lynch.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH SECURITIES: Thank you very much. I just to get back to the non-carb business in North America. Despite the higher marketing expense in the quarter, it's difficult to tell how that's allocated, but can you comment on the underlying on scale and margin trends in the non-carb business in North America, and then on the back of that, you indicated some effects of timing in the SG&A expenses or marketing expenses, what should be normalized growth here and can you comment on what returns or benefits you're seeing from your marketing campaigns?  

STEVE HEYER: Well, as you think about North America and non-carbs, break it into three pieces. One would be the juice or especially the chilled juice business is under pressure. The volume has not been good for the category. We talk about that, and that's also given that soft volume and the very competitive nature of that business, put them under lying pressure on the margins in that business.  

If you look the water business, you've got some pricing pressure. In that business, it's starting to lighten up. It was very aggressive in the summer and as we go about implementing the three tier strategy, it has been very clear about starting to move towards value in the category. You have to think about our portfolio there with Evian, Dasani and them having a role in each place. Dasani continues to hold about a 125% index to the category, and it's showing very good growth in the quarter.  

Last would be isotonics and PowerAde, which had a very good quarter and a very good year. Margins on power aid are actually doing well. We're getting very good leverage out of the marketing investment there in share, especially in the key seen (inaudible), has been very, very strong for the year. And, again, there, where we made an investment into the brand to reposition it, we're now seeing the benefits in growth and in pricing leverage.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: OK. Great, and SG&A growth?  

JEFFREY DUNN: Let me take that one, if I could, Christine. To (inaudible) SG&A, I think some of their, because there was, there were some timing issues with marketing expenses in the quarter, I think it's better probably to explain it to look at on a year to date basis, what kind of leverage are we getting out of SG&A, and here's how I would think about it.  

If you look at SG&A on a year to date basis on a reported basis, it's SG&A is up about 7%, and about 2 points of that increase is due to currency where currency is helping us on the revenue line, it actually works against us when you look at just the expense lines.  

So, that two points in currency, and there's about one point of increase related to stock options just year on year because of the ramping up that we think will even out pretty much next year. And then there's about 2 points of SG&A related to structural items such as Evian and Denon in Germany. So, if you consider those items SG&A on a year to date basis is up about 2%. So, we are getting some leverage there, in the overall P & L.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: OK. Quite in the question follow up, you indicated that the savings related to these streamline initiatives in '04 are expected to now be greater than previously indicated. Can you comment on what you think the number is, and if you have already experienced some savings in the system in the third quarter.  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. We anticipate that the overall streamlining cost that would be incurred in this year we have previously talked about, about $400 million, and we now think that it will be about $500 million for the year. So, about $100 million increase in the year. No benefit flowing through this year and there will be some, some benefit if you will, flowing through starting next year.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: And has that expectation, it was I believe $100 million in savings for '04, has that now been increased in your plan?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes. It would increase somewhat.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: Do you quantify beyond that at all?  

GARY FAYARD: You know, if you took it proportionately, it would be about 125. It might be 115. It might be 135. It's some --. Some kind of number like that.  

CHRISTINE MARCUS: Thank you very much.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you.  

STEVE HEYER: Operator, we have time for two more questions, please.  

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Greenberg of Deutsch Banc.  

MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST., DEUTSCH BANC: Hello, good morning. I just wanted to follow up on the streamlining a little bit with you, Gary. Can you give us a little more color on what caused those dollars to go up a $100 million relative to earlier expectations, and may be, if you could just help us understand, what the benefits are on a sustainable profit basis, that would be helpful as well. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Marc. I'd be happy to do that. The increases first of the $100 million increase in overall charges, about $40 million of that is related to North America and it's closing one manufacturing plant that we own. And we would expect to see some benefits from the closure of that plant start next year.  

In addition to that, we went through all of the operators that are here with me this morning, and Steve and I have all went through a very concerted and detailed review just during the summer of all of our operations around the world, and challenged the infrastructure in every operating division that we had around the world.  

In fact, we've continued to look for and found additional places that we could become more efficient which does increase some of the streamlining costs this year, but then we would expect to see some of those benefits, those from that flowing through next year. So, it's really past the North America, most of it is small amounts, but in, in most of the operating divisions around the world.  

MARC GREENBERG: Thank you.  

STEVE HEYER: Final question, please.  

OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Robert Stamberg of Sanford and Bernstein.  

ROBERT STAMBERG, ANALYST, SANFORD AND BERNSTEIN: Good morning, everyone. Question about the difference between concentrate shipments and bottler case sales. You would expect that concentrate shipments would start catching up with bottler case sales towards the second half of the year. Do you still expect that for the fourth quarter?  

GARY FAYARD: Yes, Robert. Good morning. Yes, we would in still anticipator for full year gallon sales, and unit case sales should be in about, about in line with each other. You know, they were behind slightly for the first half of the year for our third quarter, and they were right in line for, and for and we would anticipate a little bit higher in the fourth quarter on gallons to kind of catch it up.  

ROBERT STAMBERG: Great. Thank you.  

GARY FAYARD: Thank you very much.  

STEVE HEYER: Well, thanks, everybody. Really appreciate you taking the time to chat with us this morning. We feel pretty confident that we're on the right track and we feel good about the results. We really do appreciate your time today and have a great day.  

OPERATOR: This concludes today's Coca-Cola Company conference call. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031030dzag0008j
  


 HD
 Q2  2003 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,452 words
   PD
17 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded. All participants will be able to listen only until the formal answer and question portion of the call. If you like to question during this time, simply press star one on your touch-tone phone. If you are on a speaker phone, you may need to lift up the telephone hand set. To withdraw your question, press star two. Participants will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors and therefore e questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola media relations department if they have additional questions.  

   TD
I would like now to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, assistant Vice-President and Director of Investor Relations, who will begin the conference. Mr. Mark, you may begin.  

LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT VP, DIRECTOR - INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning everyone. Thanks for joining us. This morning I'm pleased to be joined by Steven Heyer, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Gary Fayard our Chief Financial Officer. In addition, our senior operating officers, Sandy Allan, Jeffery Dunn, Mary Minnick and Jose Reyes are present and will be available for a Q&A session. Alex Cummings is not able to join us today as he is attending a meeting in Africa. Our prepared comments will provide a high level overview of our performance in the quarter. We intend to leave plenty of time for your Q&A at which time we ask you to be considerate of others and try to limit yourself to one question during your turn. If you want additional questions, please jump back into the queue.  

Before we get started, I would like to remind everybody that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning our long term volume and earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and in exhibit 99.1 of the company's most recent 10-K. In addition, I would like to call to your attention the fact that we have posted a schedule on our company's website at Coca-Cola.com in the investor section with reconciled results reported under U.S. GAAP to certain non-GAAP measures which we may refer to or which our senior executives may use in discussing our results from time to time. With that said, please look at the website for that information and call us if you have questions.  

Let me turn this over to Steve.  

STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT AND COO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks a lot, Larry, and thanks to all of you for joining us this morning.  

Let me start by covering a few highlights from the quarter. During the second quarter we delivered strong financial results and strong cash flows. We grew our volumes 5% and we picked up momentum as compared to the first quarter, and we continued to increase our share position in key beverage categories around world such as Mexico, China, Great Britain, Spain, India, France, Australia, and Russia. Reported earnings per share per quarter were 55 cent which included a charge of 2 cents relating to streamlining initiatives. For the purpose of comparison with last year, if you excluded this charge, the earnings would be 57 cents versus 49 cents for the prior year, an increase of 16%. Gary will talk about the specifics of our financial performance in a few moments. But in summary, our financial performance reflects 8% underlying operating profit growth, improvement in our equity income, and currency benefits for the first time in many years, and a lower effective tax rate, all leading the strong earnings per share growth.  

When we spoke in April, I made it clear that while our results for the first quarter were adequate, we were not satisfied. In the current quarter, we have seen improvements with stronger operating income growth and better leverage of our expenses. We delivered solid underlying operating income growth despite only 1% growth in gallon shipments and product recall costs in Japan. Overall, I'm pleased with the direction that we are headed as we managed our entire portfolio of countries per grow share in profitable categories, improved system profits, and most importantly to deliver earnings growth. But there is still more to do given the opportunities for profitable growth that we see for our business.  

Now, as you know, our operating model balances volume and profit across solid brands, packages and channels on a country by country basis. We have made meaningful progress on several cost savings and supply chain initiatives that will continue to free up resources into the future. While still there are a number of economic challenges in front of us, I'm confident we have the strategies and capabilities to continue growing faster than the industry average and to deliver solid financial results. Said another way, we are doing the right things, and we are confident in our ability to execute our strategy.  

In the next few minutes, I will try to anticipate some of your questions and give you a sense of how we are doing in our key markets around the world. Let me start with Europe. We are obviously very pleased with Europe in all respects. We achieved growth in all of our key countries driven by strong CSD growth particularly in our most profitable immediate consumption packages and in high profit markets. CSDs grew over 5%. A big benefit coming from innovation in the most profitable brands and packages, especially Coke Light with Lemon, Vanilla Coke, Sprite Ice Cube, and Fanta Berry. The Great Britain trademark Coke grew 9% for the quarter reflecting the successful launch of Vanilla Coke and the continued success of Diet Coke with Lemon. In France our growth came from our most profitable core brands with trademark Coke up 6%, Sprite up 15% and Fanta up 20%. In Spain, volume was up 8% with trademark Coke up over 4%. Our profitable immediate consumption 200 ml refillable package was a key contributor to that growth. In the central Europe and middle east group, volume gains were driven by course CSDs up 6% and immediate consumption packages up 10%, both of which enhanced profitability. Now I know you are interested in Germany so I will spend a little time describing where we are in the business. In Germany, our business has improved considerably with volumes flat in the second quarter versus a 10% decline in Q1. We have adapted quickly to provide the market with refillable packages which is what customers and consumers want and which we are very well positioned to supply. Even though there is some uncertainty as we approach the October 1 deadline for a central clearing system in Germany, we expect to see positive trends in the back half of the year reflecting the successful execution of our strategies. With regard to Europe as a whole, we expect to continue to deliver strong volume and profit growth by focusing on profitable brands and packages, improved concentrate pricing and effective cost management. As I know you can appreciate, we are also praying for a very hot summer and an even weaker dollar. So that's Europe. It was a very strong quarter.  

North America. Our North America results reflect very solid relative performance when you look at the industry as a whole which has been affected by poor weather and weak consumer retail traffic. We grew our volume 3% in the quarter with our retail going up 5% and food service division down slightly. Excluding the water acquisitions, our volume was flat in the quarter reflecting 1% growth in bottle delivered products offset by negative trends in our warehouse delivered juice business. Although the overall beverage category has been softer than we planned, we have increased our share of shares by .7 share points on a year-to-year basis, and our system remains committed to getting innovative products and packages into the market to achieve price realization.  

First let me talk about CSDs. Trademark Coca-Cola continued to pick up share in the cola category with positive year-to-date growth driven by Vanilla Coke, Diet Vanilla Coke, Fridge Pack, and strong growth from Diet Coke. I'm sure you want to hear about Vanilla Coke. Vanilla Coke continues to be a great success. We just completed a 52 week analysis which indicates that more households tried Vanilla Coke than any other new CSD brand. The brand continues to attract new consumers adding approximately half a million new buyers in each of the four recent months. After trying it, consumers are continuing to buy it. With 90% of Vanilla Coke volume in the latest period coming from repeat customers. Research on Diet Vanilla Coke indicates that this brand is leading all other CSD introductions in terms of repeat purchase levels at 47%, suggesting a high level of product satisfaction among consumers. We are very pleased with the success of both brands and have extended Vanilla Coke and or Diet Vanilla Coke to over 30 countries around the world. In addition, we are very excited and pleased with the launch of Sprite Remix. It's exceeding our expectations helping to grow trademark Sprite 12% in the retail division. We are extremely pleased with how Sprite remix is also enhancing Sprite's brand health which remains the CSD lemon lime category leader with over 50% share. We have seen very little impact in Sprite's share position over this past year even as our primary competitor has entered the lemon lime category. Now looking at the second half of the year, we have several important integrated marketing initiatives to keep driving excitement around our great CSD brand portfolio. Fridge Pack is currently available in 50% of the country and will be moving to 80% of the country by year end. And our results in the second half will also benefit from continued growth in Sprite Remix, a strong emphasis on diet CSDs, integrated marketing activities around key holidays and football, and the expansion of our highly profitable 6 pack 24 ounce package.  

Now let me move to an area that I know has raised a lot of questions, our water strategy. We have implemented a comprehensive water strategy which has significantly strengthened our position in terms of retail dollar share now making us the largest package water company in the United States based on that measure. Evian continues to play an important role by its positioning as the high end of our tiered strategy. Dasani, our mainstream water brand, has grown 14% year to date and grew 9% in the quarter. A slightly slower trend in the second quarter occurred as the price premium versus other competitors widened. As we have moved to appropriate price premium to other brands, Dasani returned to double digit growth at the end of the second quarter and we expect this trend to continue into the third quarter as the new marketing campaign, "Can't Live Without Dasani continues to gain traction and as we emphasized packaging innovation such as the 6 pack, 24 ounce and 24 ounce sport top bottle. We expect to continue generating strong profits from Dasani for our system. Our water brands from last years' transaction has benefited us in the quarter as we started expanding their distribution to compete directly with other spring water products. Our strategy with Dannon is to continue to be price competitive with other leading spring waters. Our Dannon brands are sold primarily in large, one-half liter multipacks that are principally offered in different package configurations than Dasani. In fact, a recent Nielson household panel study indicates that Dannon is sourcing almost 75% of its growth from category expansion. Growth coming from both new buyers entering the category as well as existing water buyers just purchasing more. 28% of consumers are switching to Dannon from other water brands. And of this group of switchers, only a very small number, about 2% are switching from Dasani. Over 38% of our consumers switching to Dannon are moving away from bulk water and regional spring water brands, which is positive for the category overall. Our water strategy has significantly expanded our presence in all parts of this fast growing category, and we were well positioned to continuing to create more value for the system as we maintain our leadership position in water. Our non-carbonated beverage growth was assisted by PowerAide which was up 15% year to date and should continue to perform very well as we move to the next phase of marketing activities around The Matrix movie series. Other initiatives around non-carbs in the second half include the geographic expansion of Simply Orange and additional marketing support behind our Minute Maid adult refreshment brands such as lemonade, light lemonade and pink lemonade. In the third quarter, our system will begin offering Minute Maid lime aid as a immediate consumption adult refreshment brand and see this flavor has generated in our chilled juice business.  

Now moving to food service and our hospitality division. Volume improved compared with the first quarter but still reflected weak overall traffic in restaurants. We are expecting positive growth beginning in the second quarter based on improved second quarter trends and our expectation that consumer confidence and restaurant traffic will improve. As I think about the outlook for North America, we are all very confident that these programs combined with successful execution by our bottling partners should lead to enhanced system profits for both package mix and price realization. We expect our volume growth to be in line with or slightly higher than industry growth, and although it's hard to say how much the industry volume will pick up, we do know that in this environment, our system will remain focused on balancing volume and price to create more value for our system and our customers.  

Before I move on, I would like to point out that we are offering consumers many choices in North America. We are, as we said, committed to being a total beverage company, and we feel North America is a great example of offering consumers whatever beverage they desire whether it's Coca-Cola, to Diet Coke to waters, to teas, sports drinks, or juices. This is important to us because it allows us to provide consumers and customers a full range of brands to choose from. Capitalizing on the consumer trends that we are seeing in the marketplace. That's North America.  

Now Asia. We grew 4% in the quarter. While this was below the recent trend, we consider this a solid result given the impact of several key events and cycling 14% prior year growth. Growth in the quarter was led by Australia, India, and Thailand offset by the impact of SARS and a product recall in Japan. Understandably, Asia lost unit case sales in China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore due to SARS. We estimate that the entire group lost perhaps a full 3-points of growth because of SARS which is nearly a one-point impact on the entire company. We took measures early in the quarter to help minimize the impact on profits by redirecting resources and postponing investments until consumer confidence returns, and these measures included redirecting marketing promotions to take home packages and channels where the consumer was shopping and therefore increasing revenue in supermarkets. Shifting brand focus to our juice drink crew which is one of the hottest selling and most profitable SKU's in China. Creating new channels of distribution such as selling product directly off the back of our trucks in densely populated apartment complexes and reducing our operating expenses. Taken together our work in China, this quarter is a great example of our ability to quickly adjust our day to day operations to conditions as we find them. We believe the worst impact from SARS is now over. Volume trends have recently improved with June volume growth turning positive in China and up 12% in Singapore.  

Another area which impacted Asia's growth that I know you are interested in is Japan. Volume was down 3% with two primary factors impacting our results. First, since we were cycling last year's highly successful World Cup program, our strategy was to pursue share of revenue dollars by focusing on profitable volume. We saw positive growth in every month of the quarter on our most profitable packages such as small cans and small PET and for our innovative bottle can pack. A second factor impacting results in Japan was a product recall in May that affected our performance in the fast growing functional and wellness drinks category. The product recall related to BOCO, a new fast growing functional water in honey lemon. The overall impact of the recall reduced Japan's second quarter volume by approximately 2 percentage points. The voluntary product recall occurred because of an ingredient suppliers confusion over the government's approval of a proprietary flavor ingredient. The ingredient is widely used in many countries including the U.S. and the EU and it poses no threat to consumers. However, the ingredient supplier didn't identify it as unapproved for Japan. We and other manufacturers pulled products containing this ingredient in May. These two products have been reformulated and are now back in the market. Looking forward for Japan, volumes should be positive in the back half of the year and we still remain very committed to and confident in a strategy that emphasizes profitability. We will get at that through new product innovation in teas, functional beverages, and CSDs by managing margins and focusing on highly profitable products such as increased initiatives around Georgia Coffee and by driving marketing and channel management initiatives such as new Fridge Pack -- new package innovation and the roll out of Fridge Pack and a bundling of the 500 ml bottles. We are focused on driving costs out of the supply chain as you know. The summarize Asia, it's been a challenging quarter in part due to several issues which we feel will not, not impact us going forward. Our strategies are the right ones and we demonstrated our ability to quickly respond to rapid changes in the market.  

Moving on to Africa, growth was driven by South Africa. Trademark Coke was up 22% helped by the introduction of the Real campaign, the launch of Vanilla Coke, the rollout of 300 ml returnable glass bottles and superior local execution by our bottling partners. These results were somewhat offset by volume declines in Nigeria where we focused on achieving attractive pricing to improve system profitability. Northern countries such as Morocco, Tunisia, and Algeria were impacted by the war in Iraq. We are encouraged that business there has improved in June indicating that we are not likely experiencing any lingering negative consumer attitudes in this region. As you can imagine, Africa is all about sound business fundamentals in an ever changing environment. We are on it. Our execution is strong.  

Lastly, let me touch on Latin America. Latin America benefited from a refreshingly stable economic conditions, we are pleased to report. With continued strong performance in Mexico and improvement in Argentina and Venezuela. Our system in Mexico continues to deliver strong performance even in an intensely competitive environment. Our growth was driven by 4% growth in CSDs. Growth in trademark Coke was aided by the Real marketing platform, continued expansion of our liter refillable PET package, and that's allowing us to compete successfully and profitably. DSDs have benefited from strong growth of Fanta, Sprite, Lift, and Fresca. In addition, Mexico benefited from single serve CL volume growth of almost 20% in the quarter on a constant territory basis. In Venezuela, post general strike, as you will recall, we restored full distribution across our outlets in March with trademark Coke being the first priority which responded with double digit growth in the quarter. In Argentina, our long term strategy to remain close to consumers throughout last year's economic crisis is paying off. As we are seeing 18% growth in unit case volumes nearing the pre-crisis levels. We have come out at the other side of this crisis stronger, just as we promised. Trademark Coca-Cola increased 27% in the quarter through an emphasis on refillable packaging which is the most affordable for consumers and it is the most profitable for our system. Our emphasis here is now being expanded to Fanta and Sprite with similar results. In Brazil, our system is focused on a longer term strategy of increasing profitability. Late last year our bottling partners experienced dramatic increases in raw material costs, largely due to currency devaluation. To offset the cost increases, prices have increased by over 20% versus the prior year. As a result, despite the fact that our volume declined 12% in the quarter, our operating income has improved as we have strengthened our profit position in the market. Although our primary competitor in Brazil did not increase prices until May, the price gap between our products has narrowed and we expect our pricing to hold in the second half of the year. We will be building back profitable volume. Looking ahead, we will continue to capture the great growth opportunities in Latin America focusing on our long term strategy of building our brand, our price, our channel, and our package approach while leading the system profit improvements.  

Now to wrap up before I turn it over to Gary, let me say we have confidence in what we are doing. Throughout our system, our execution is solid and it continues to improve. As we work with the team all around the world, we were encouraged by the intensity and the focus that we have to keep driving profitable growth and create value for our entire system. While we still have challenges remaining for the second half of the year, our clear focus will be on execution and delivering very solid profitability.  

Now let me turn things over to Gary.  

GARY FAYARD, CFO, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Steve.  

I would like to discuss our financial performance in the quarter. Our results were driven by the underlying performance from our operating groups, the continued strength of our equity income and lower effective tax rate. First and most importantly, under lying performance of our operations was strong. As you heard from Steve, we achieved positive results by balancing our performance across our entire portfolio. Reported operating income increased 3% in the second quarter which included a $70 million charge from streamlining initiatives and a $13 million increase in stock base compensation expense. If you were to back out those two items, the remaining operating income increased 8% versus the prior year. This increase is based on gallon shipments increasing only 1% in the quarter, improved concentrate pricing, and effective management of operating expenses. In addition, operating income benefited for the first time in 7 years by approximately 3% due to positive currency trends. The second factor was improved equity income which continues to demonstrate our commitment to the overall profitability of the Coca-Cola system. Our strategies of working closely with our bottling partners to drive the most profitable products are clearly paying off. And third, our effective tax rate was lower than we have previously indicated. In the second quarter, the underlying effective tax rate declined to 22.8% versus the rate of 26.5% that was communicated in our first quarter release. This reduction improved earnings in the current quarter by little less than 3 cents per share. The decrease in the underlying effective tax rate is due to effective tax planning, improved earnings from equity investees and stronger profit contributions in 2003 from lower tax locations where currencies are also having a favorable impact primarily related to the strength of the Euro. For the remainder of this year, we expect to maintain an effective tax rate on operations of 22.8%. Therefore, we expect that earnings per share for the third and fourth quarters will benefit from the lower tax rate.  

Looking into 2004 and future years, we expect the company's effective tax rate on operations to be a longer term rate of 25.5% so a decrease of a full percentage point from what we had earlier indicated. Therefore, for any of you that are modeling next year, we would expect our earnings per share to benefit next year and beyond to reflect the anticipated lower tax rate. This lower effective tax rate for the year in the future represents real economic benefit to the company as lower tax payments directly improve future cash flows and returns on capital. We are pleased that our tax planning strategies are having a favorable impact on our earnings, and this benefit is being enhanced by the currency trends. The estimated lower taxes should directly increase our earnings for this year and the next several years, and you should apply these rates to your estimates of underlying operating results.  

Moving on, in addition to our strong earnings growth, our cash flow also remains very strong. Cash from operations for the first six months was $2.1 billion. And we expect strong cash flow to continue in the future. If you were to exclude the Japan tax settlement from the first quarter of the prior year, our remaining cash from operations was up double digits. During the first six months, we spent approximately $470 million on share repurchase, and we intend to spend an additional $1 billion in share buybacks between now and the end of the year. And that's on top of a 10% dividend increase in 2003 which was the 41st consecutive annual increase in our dividend, making our anticipated total dividend payout this year in excess of $2.1 billion. When you combine share repurchase and dividend payments, we expect to return at least $3.6 billion of cash from operations to share owners this year.  

Let me address currency. As many of you know, we have been negatively impacted by currencies for seven straight years. This is a first quarter in a long time and I hope not the last of which we actually had some positive benefits from currencies. In the quarter, operating income benefited about 3% from currency and year to date results benefited about 1%. As we look to the remainder of the year, we continue to expect a slight positive impact from currency.  

One more subject I would like to address is gallon shipments. Gallons were behind unit cases in the quarter, and they are also slightly behind on a year to date basis. For the full year unit casing and gallon growth should be approximately the same. Therefore in the back half of this year we expect gallons to be up slightly ahead of unit cases and this should benefit our results.  

As for our outlook for operations throughout the rest of this year, hopefully our comments are provided helpful insight into our business. We do have some challenging markets, but in summary, we expect continued strong performance from Europe. We expect Asia to improve, but we do still face some challenges in Japan. We expect that Latin America and Africa will remain solid. We expect that North America will perform at least in line with the industry with a strong focus on creating value for the Coca-Cola Company and the entire system. And we expect our financial fundamentals to remain very good as we deliver results in the back half of the year.  

Now I would like to turn things back over to Steve for a few final comments before we take your questions.  

STEVE HEYER: Thanks, Gary.  

Before we move to Q&A, I would like to address one more item. There are been a number of media stories that have raised questions regarding financial and legal matters, investigations and our relationship with Burger King. Let me be very clear. We take all allegations of any inappropriate conduct very, very seriously. We feel strongly that our financial statements properly reflect the financial performance of our company, and we do not believe based on exhaustive internal analysis that there are any material misstatements in our results. Further, as we have investigated all of the allegations raised by Mr. Whitly, we have found nothing material that requires a restatement of our financial statements or we would be doing that right now. As you know, our senior management signs a letter certifying our financial statements on a quarterly basis. We have found nothing that would lead us to believe that our certification is inappropriate. As we reported on June 17th, we did identify several small items that required adjustments. As such, we included a $9 million write off in our second quarter results. We have always prided ourselves on the quality of our people and our actions. As we go about our daily activities, we will always act with integrity. Each of our associates is responsible for upholding our integrity and earning the trust of our consumers our bottling partners and our fellow employees. We will continue to take the steps necessary to ensure our reputation as an upstanding quality employer and trusted business partner continues well into the future. Also, let me assure you that we are very focused on running our business and we will ensure that our senior operating officers remain focused on running each of their operations around the world to continue satisfying more and more consumers every day. Our associates in food service are focused and motivated. As I hope you can appreciate, we will not be discussing any of the specific allegations during this conference call nor can we comment on specific customer relationships. However, we would like to take the next minutes to answer your questions about our operations around the world.  

So with that said, let's move to your questions.  

OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to remind everyone if you would like to ask a question, please press star then the number one on your telephone key pad. We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Marc Cohen of Goldman Sachs.  

MARC COHEN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi guys. Have I two questions and they may be answered by either of you, Steve and Gary. The first is pricing flexibility. I wonder if you could talk a little bit about some of the things you are looking at as you assess the company's own pricing flexibility looking forward into say later this year when you will be setting price plans for next year? Obviously you made moves here in Brazil that you talked about a year ago almost at this time. But what are you looking at that could give you more confidence to maybe make a decision to accelerate your own price growth and where do you think you are in terms of being in the position to do that? And then the second question is operating margins. Clearly, despite North America and Japan being weak, you held expenses down. Talk a little bit about your confidence and being able to continue to show positive operating margin behavior from here.  

STEVE HEYER: Let me try to answer your question. This is Steve. I think I understand what you are getting at, and if I'm missing the essence of your question, please stop me. Obviously we look market by market, country by country at where we think we sit relative to system health, relative to other competitors in the category, and what we know the underlying demand is for our products. And when we go through that drill, we are pretty optimistic about pricing opportunity across Europe. We were optimistic about price opportunity in parts of Latin America and some key markets in Asia. Taken together, we think we have got some meaningful upside. When you blend the rate opportunity with the opportunity we have through package innovation to continue to adjust mix, our ability to get price goes up rather dramatically. And that's really the primary opportunity we see in addition to adjustments in markets where the markets are just robust enough that we believe we can take the absolute rate up as well. Taken together, that, of course, gives us confidence in margin expansion, and when coupled with supply chain initiatives and the cost reduction activities, we have under way, and lay on top of that the innovation programs that we have which we believe downstream will generate some additional premium price opportunities taken together we see growth.  

MARC COHEN: Where do you feel you are in terms of getting to the point where that can start to come into your P&L. This year it's been a one or two percent price mix factor that's been building in the business more or less with geographies constant. Do you think that we were at a point where these factors can come together and accelerate now? Or is this something that's two or three years out?  

STEVE HEYER: I think it's closer than two or three years. I think we will gradually take the performance of the business up. I think we have done some of that in this quarter. We expect to do more of that in the second half and beyond.  

MARC COHEN: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Bill Pecoriello from Morgan Stanley.  

BILL PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. On the emphasis on profitability, when you're talking about the supply chain management programs globally, where would you say you are now? Are you just getting started? Are the bottlers on board? And is there a cultural change with Coke in terms of making this continuous and how Coke is going to participate in those systems savings? And I just wanted to follow up on the concentrate pricing. As you have say a slower growth market like North America where the bottlers are getting pricing with lower volume growth, is Coke going to participate in that in the concentrate pricing as well?  

STEVE HEYER: I will let everybody speak for their own marketplace. I think with differing degrees supply chain improvement is a priority everywhere in the world and we are making a lot of progress. Why don't we start, Mary, with you? Talk about where we are with Japan. And I know you have interesting work going on in China and then we can move across the world.  

MARY MINNICK, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, ASIA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Hi, as we talked before in Japan, bottlers are on board with it. The details are pretty much 90% there and we have in April signed a letter of understanding in terms of forming the supply chain management company in Japan and we expect it to be operational by the end of this year. As I said a number of times, the knock-on benefits of starting with production and procurement are substantial. Further down the line in sales and distribution line we also feel there are significant savings there. There is no problem with terms of bottler buy in and understanding. In China, we have replicated what we did in Japan on supply chain management in the non-carb side of our business. They are co-investing and building a non-carb infrastructure. They are fully on board. It's an operational entity with a general manager and a full staff.  

SANDY ALLAN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT; PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, EUROPE, EURASIA AND MIDDLE EAST, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, Bill. As you know in Europe, I have three bottlers that account for almost 70% of the volume. These bottlers have been very active over the past two to three years in taking costs out of their respective systems. We will follow and improve that with the 10 countries that are going to join the European union in May of next year because that means that frontiers are going to come down, and that will allow the bottlers, particularly, [Helinik], to really get at significant supply chain savings through plant closures and streamlining the logistics.  

JEFFERY DUNN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, NORTH AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Relative to North America, there's two key things going on. One, obviously the formation of CCB by the bottlers and the movement of procurement. We have just about are complete in moving the procurement resources in there. That team will do procurement for the system as we move into next year's planning and execution. And then obviously CCB will continue to leverage up over time as we add activities into it separately in terms of Coca-Cola North America, we have integrated to bring our supply chain organizations together, and that team is up and running, and we look to get savings out of that in terms of the elements in the supply chain we directly manage. So I would say both those things are moving forward. To answer your pricing question, we have a philosophical agreement with the bottlers relative to SGI or the majority of the bottlers that signed SGI that set volume and price plans going forward and we will participate in that. We won't take price ahead of their ability to get into the market, but will plan that pricing action together based on rate and mix activities that allow us to get price realization.  

JOSE REYES, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: As you know in Mexico, supply chain activities have been in place quite some time. The Mexican bottlers have done a good job of trying to take advantage of those opportunities. And we are experiencing the same results throughout Latin America. Added by the fact that Coca-Cola being integrated makes it even more easier to accomplish.  

STEVE HEYER: Bill, the only thing I would say, I say two things in summary to your question as well, which is as you may know we have implemented sessions a couple times a year that we call top-to-top meetings with the CEOs and our COO with the our largest bottlers around the world. And we've undertaken a series of initiatives working together to capture system benefits that you can only get on a global basis. I'm thinking about activities around IT procurement and quality. All of which promise rather substantial benefits. We have seen some the benefits in the bottler performance this year. We expect to see a continued roll through the system, and needless to say as their results are improved, not only do we have price opportunity down the road, but we see improvements in our equity income.  

BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Branca of Lehman Brothers.  

MIKE BRANCA, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you and good morning everyone. I have two questions. First on the marketing spending per case, particularly for umbrella Coca-Cola brand outside of the U.S. and specifically as you shifted spending to let's call it new Cola news around new products like Vanilla Coke and Coke Light with Lemon, I want to know how has that marketing spend -- what kind of incremental list have you seen from that new activity, particularly when you compare that to a couple of years ago when you dramatically stepped up your marketing spending for core Coca-Cola Classic and if you can help us understand how that should translate as you roll on extension beyond the trademark colas elsewhere. And then a second question and a follow-up on the bottler pool procurement share manufacturing and shared administrative services, as we all know close to 60% of bottler expenses are parallel across the entire system globally, and we recognize the initiatives you are doing with the three quarters of the bottling that goes through the big bottlers. Can you articulate how that will make its way to the other quarter of the volume through the smaller bottlers where we are likely to see the greatest level of savings on a per case base and along those lines your participation in those initiatives?  

STEVE HEYER: Let me deal with the second one first because I think your first question can best be answered by each operator on a market by market basis. We have -- we have been working with the big bottlers to set in motion these initiatives. There has been a huge amount of work in this area. We have basically gotten to the stage now where we aren't driving it. The bottler management teams are very engaged and we are just a participant in it, which is a much healthier way for us to go forward given that in many ways it's their cost, their bottom line, and we don't want to be glib about decisions we make for their operations. We want to be facilitators and helpful in bringing together the system to do a better job against areas where there is big scale benefit. Now that we have that foundation in place, we are reaching out to bottler consortiums, bottler co-ops on a region by region and some cases country by country basis allowing them to participate. For instance, the Japanese bottler co-op, none of whom are part of the top to top are linked in to the top to top initiatives. We are doing that with other bottlers around the world. Because you a right, there are big savings there and we want the entire system to benefit from these initiatives. With regard to your first question, who wants to start? Mary is raising her hand enthusiastically.  

MARY MINNICK: Thank you. In a number of markets and we have launched Vanilla Coke and Diet Coke with Lemon everywhere pretty much, Hong Kong, Australia, Japan. The exciting thing about investing in Cola new products as you call them is they do three things. Number one, they can bring in new users to the Cola franchise. Number two, they can increase frequency of purchase among existing users, and number three, they tend to reduce experimental switching to competitive brands. And so in many cases these are extremely incremental products and they reflect the tone and imagery Coke trademark in general. None of the positioning of these new Cola extensions have taken the brand into inconsistent directions with the trademark. So all in all, it's a win and it's a very effective spend per case.  

STEVE HEYER: Let me build on that. That's not only true for Coca-Cola but we were seeing that same effect relative to Sprite [vis-a-vi] Remix and Sprite Zero, and Sprite Ice Cube. I think you are seeing that effect on these big brands across the trademarks.  

SANDY ALLAN: I might add from a European perspective. We believe that giving consumers choice is what we are all about. And as consumers' tastes vary and trends, for example, diet trends assert themselves strongly in developed country, I think it's a responsibility for us to meet these consumer demands. It is a win-win situation because many of our brands, particularly light brands are more profitable for our system than Coke Classic by itself. So that's a trend that we see as being very positive, not only for consumers meeting their demands but also from our overall profitability.  

MIKE BRANCA: Steve, if I could make one follow-up on your comments on the bottler cost side. Would you care to -- obviously it's the bottler's savings. Would you care to give us a ballpark idea for look out over the next three to five years of the magnitude of the cost saves that you see from all of the pool procurement manufacturing services?  

STEVE HEYER: The fast answer to that question is, no.  

MIKE BRANCA: That's shocker.  

STEVE HEYER: The follow-up reason why is that there is a lot of work under way, and by the way, the Coca-Cola Company is a partial beneficiary in these activities as well. It's not all bottler benefit. But we don't want to get locked into a number because it requires a system coming together and while we are making progress, I don't want to give you guys a target number that -- except to say that it's large and very meaningful.  

MIKE BRANCA: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Andrew Conway of CSFB.  

ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CSFB: Good morning, Steve and the group. The question, Steve, on your expectations on whether you anticipate country mix improving second half of the year from the first half and which regions or countries do you anticipate to see perhaps the largest rate of improvement or largest delta? And then as a follow-up, I really value Mary's insights in Japan just in terms of her second to third quarter consumer insight. In particular March was a very difficult month in the first quarter. How has the nonalcoholic category responded competition, dollar share of category growth across the spectrum? How are Coke branch performing in light of the consumer shifts?  

STEVE HEYER: Andrew, I think we do expect to see country mix improve. You need to understand that most of the world is doing just fine. As a matter of fact, better than just fine. There are only a couple of markets where we really found that the marketplace or the economy has had a bit of a chilling effect on our results which we have talked about. We believe that Germany and Japan will have improved second halves. And we are hopeful. As far as other operations are concerned, we are running on pretty much all cylinders. Mexico can't do much better than it's doing. We expect it will continue. Brazil we expect to see some upside in the second half. China we expect to see upside in the second half. Because the SARS issue has dissipated. So country mix will be enhanced. To put this in perspective, again, let me say, most of the world is doing better than fine.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Great. On the Japanese consumer currently?  

MARY MINNICK: Andrew, as you know we don't expect the economy to improve in Japan, but we did have some one-time unplanned events that we don't think will affect us in the second half, and we do expect to see improved trends in the second half for Japan. And as I said in the last conference call, when you are faced with industry growth of zero to minus 1% and that's essentially what's going on, with a lot of share movement within that stagnant category from competitor to competitor, you have three strategies you can pursue. You can grow share volume. You can innovate to stimulate growth and you can go after share of dollars. The latter two is definitely our emphasis for the second half of this year. We will innovate aggressively and around a couple of key high margin areas. Roll out Fridge Pack in supermarkets. There are still huge upside to the availability expansion of the bottle can product. Functional drinks as you know are a big consumer trend right now. We will have a new functional drink in August. Vanilla Coke is doing well. We will expand that to all channels and packs. We will launch another nonsugar tea and we will launch some CSD innovations in the second half of this year. From Canada Dry, we can stimulate carbonated soft drink growth among consumers. In terms of share of dollars, we have an agressive campaign for Georgia Coffee in the second half. We'll have a whole new advertising campaign. We saw another has done really well but it's time to move on to that. We will have a two month consumer promotion. We have a strategy with our bottler and we're putting Georgia in Fridge Packs. In terms of the longer picture in Japan and most people are keen to understand that we have two things going for us. One is certainly not the economy. It's innovation and its supply chain management. Next year we think pseudo pharmaceuticals, functional drinks, carbonated soft drinks and a whole new line of Georgia Coffee can help stimulate growth. It's worth pointing out that we will not participate in the excessive price discounting that's going on in large PET in supermarkets, particularly around the tea area. We don't think that makes sense. It's moving share from one competitor to another. Our focus is innovation and share of dollars.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Great. So in the interim area with the category up up to flat to down slightly, you believe you can continue or to execute the value and profit strategy in local currency successfully?  

MARY MINNICK: Yes, we do. There are huge variability in our margins in Japan and we understand which levers to push to pursue share of dollars. We know which levers to push to pursue share of dollars -- or, volume and, of course, we know how to innovate.  

ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Caroline Levy of UBS Warburg.  

CAROLINE LEVY, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning. Can you hear me?  

STEVE HEYER: Yes, go ahead.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Have I two quick questions. On innovation, it just seems to me that the lapping of Vanilla Coke, if you look at the data they are showing the base brand down a lot, and you have a face that of the third quarter. You did address that, Steve. I know that the trial repeat looks very good versus other things. The implication is you will need another major CSD innovation, and I'm wondering if you have come to that conclusion and we could expect something soon? The second thing I would love, could Sandy paint a picture of a best case scenario in Germany? I think a lot of the restructuring benefits you expect to see you will put back into the market. What kind of margin expansion can we look for out of the bottling operation there under a best case scenario?  

JEFFERY DUNN: Carolyn, Jeff. I guess you are talking about lapping of Vanilla Coke in the U.S.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Yes.  

JEFFERY DUNN: Number one, we have just launched Sprite Remix which is running ahead of plan. That's going to help us cycle. We have got in the third quarter un-cycled Diet Vanilla Coke and a major diet emphasis period coming up. That's going to help us cycle. We have another 30% of the country coming on Fridge Pack. That's going to help us cycle. And then the rest of our marketing programs across the other brand portfolio. So there has been a lot made of climbing vanilla mountain, but effectively I think we have the programs in place in the third quarter to do that. In context of another major CSD innovation, we will look for constant innovation across our product and packages, and we will see. I don't think looking for it as a function of lapping, you know, a previous innovation is a good strategy. It has to be based on consumer insight and what will expand the category in our brand.  

SANDY ALLAN: Carolyn, Germany. Steve told you earlier we were flat in volume in Germany in the second quarter versus 10% down. As you know, the poor performance in the first quarter was caused by the imposition of mandated deposit. We are uniquely placed in Germany for refillable packaging. No other supplier in Germany has the refillable production capacity that we have. And so in one way the imposition of the mandatory deposit has benefited our system in Germany. Give you an example. Our bottler which we control there, CCAG which accounts for 70% of the volume, recorded its highest profits ever in the month of June. And as we look forward, we still have some uncertainties what's going to happen with mandatory deposits, that's a critical date on October the 1st when the industry is meant to put in a centralized take back system. That isn't not going to happen. What we were seeing in the marketplace in Germany that more customers are delisting returnable -- nonreturnable packaging. We are adjusting our system as we can to cater for that possibility and therefore as we look forward to the back half of the year, I'm confident that we will see in Germany both growth in volume and also growth in profitability.  

CAROLINE LEVY: And Sandy, I want to be clear, the savings you get from restructuring, will any of that serve the bottom line?  

SANDY ALLAN: No, we need to use that to invest in the marketplace. We have underinvested in marketing Germany for many years. But now that we have control of CCAG, the major bottler, then it is absolutely imperative that we take these savings and invest in the market.  

CAROLINE LEVY: Thanks.  

LARRY MARK: Operator, we have time for two more questions. I apologize we won't get to everybody's questions this morning. Our board meeting actually is starting in just a minute. We will take time for two more questions and then we will have to wrap it up and I will be glad to take other questions throughout the day today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Your next question comes from John Faucher of JP Morgan.  

JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. Just sort of wanted to can a couple of comments out of the CCE call yesterday and a comment related that Mary made today which is, as you look at -- we talked about volumes but not long-term targets for volumes. Can you give us an idea given the fact that North American CSD growth comes in sluggish and the bottlers are committed to pricing and Mary mentioned the fact that the category in Japan can be expected to grow 0 to minus one. Given those changes maybe in the growth rates, and I don't know if Mary's is a change, but if you rethought in terms of your long-term volume target needs to be? And using this in the context of whether or not the categories can grow that fast and sort of how that changes your algorhythm if you have looked at it?  

JEFFERY DUNN: John, Jeff. Let me take the U.S. business model. We are not considering changing the business model. What we see is a couple of things. The first half CSD sluggishness. We had a terrible winter and spring. There are factors in there that I think impacted the sluggishness. Number two, in terms of pricing, we were committed to value and price realization with the bottlers. We have got to continue to work on packaging innovation and the mix aspect and being surgical in the pricing. The fact of the matter is that all pricing is not created equal, and we have to continue to work with the bottles to put product and package innovation, and again Japan is a good evidence of that. When you get innovation in, you can grow these categories and we have seen it in Europe as well. No change to the model. It's about surgical pricing. It's about innovation allowing us to capture that, and I don't think the first half of this year is indicative of the potential.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. So we should -- I'm not sure where you are from a guidance standpoint. Are you guiding to a 5 to 6 target?  

JEFFERY DUNN: That's the long term model, yes.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Is that an average number? Or a peak number? Should we expect when things are going well, that's where it will be? I'm assuming that's the better way to look at it?  

JEFFERY DUNN: That's right.  

JOHN FAUCHER: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your last question comes from Marc Greenberg of Deutsche Banc.  

MARC GREENBURG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Good morning. Just wanted to pick up on a couple of pieces on the innovation conversation. Wanted to get a sense from you, first, Jeff, on what you think the prospective rate of change in innovation might be over the back half of the year and out over the next few years. And if there is anything you considered by way of package or product that might specifically address weakness in single serve business. On the second part of the innovation conversation, Mary, you talked some about the way you could go in terms of the levers. We were getting a little bit of a faint look at potentially modest price inflation in Japan? I don't know if that's a trend yet. How might that impact your packaging strategy? Anything you can do to drive volumes up?  

JEFFERY DUNN: Mark, Jeff. Let me talk about rate of change. Rate of change is hard to talk about in the back half. Let me talk about it in a multi-horizon. I only think we have gotten our heads wrapped around innovation if terms of the U.S. as a key driver. Whether that's package or product innovation in the last two years. I would see the rate of change in innovation accelerating in not only terms of quality of innovation but the hit rate. In terms of the focus on that, we said as we went into this year, we continue to focus on product innovation, but I think package innovation and especially single serve. We have Fridge this year and multi-pack innovation, but single serve innovation could be a key volume drive for us and the bottlers go forward. Not only in terms of the packaging and sales to how people interact and purchase them, vending, things like that. I think it's a major focus going forward. We are relying basically on one package called 20 ounce which we introduced eight years ago. It has done a great job. I think there is a lot more question do in that area.  

MARY MINNICK: And in terms of pricing trends, let's take each channel. Let's take vending, for example. There is a higher degree of variability in pricing in vending. We are anywhere from 100 to 160 in our machines. Overall that adds up to a stable price picture in vending. In convenience stores, fairly stable pricing and the highly profitable single serve package there. In supermarkets, we still continue to see deflation at around 5% range on large 2 liter PET, particularly in the tea category. We have aren't getting any indication of inflation there. There are things we can do to help minimize that. Two key strategies are our Fridge Pack. Particularly on Georgia Coffee which is fairly profitable. And secondly, bundling a 500 ml. Multi-packing if you will of that more profitable single serve package. You know, I do think that we are approaching the bottom on pricing in supermarkets. And wouldn't expect that trend to accelerate in the next year.  

LARRY MARK: Thanks, everybody. Want to appreciate you taking the time to spend with us this morning. We have a board meeting to attend but we do appreciate you being with us. Have a great day. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7h005qh
  


 HD
 Q1  2003 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,874 words
   PD
16 April 2003
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola Company, this conference is being recorded. All participants will be able to listen only until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star one on your touch tone phone. If you're on a speakerphone, you may need to lift the telephone hand set. To withdraw your question, press star two. Participants will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors, and therefore, questions from the media will not be addressed in this form. Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's Media Relations Department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations. 

   TD
 You may begin. 

 LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning. Thanks for joining us. This morning I'm joined by Steve Heyer, our President and chief operating officer and Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial officer, in addition we have our senior operating officer Sandy Allan, Jose Octavio Reyes, Mary Minnick and they'll be present for the Q&A session. They will provide a high level of overview of performance in the quarter. We intend to leave plenty of time for Q&A at which time we can dive into topics in greater detail. During the Q&A please try to limit yourself to one question before if you need to return to the queue. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everybody that the conference call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning our long-term volume and earnings objectives and they should be considered in conjunction with our cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and exhibit 99.1 of our company's most recent form 10-K. In addition, I'd like to also call your attention to the fact that we've posted a schedule on our company's web site at Coca-Cola.com in the investor's section which reconciles our results on an as reported basis under U.S. generally accepted accounting principals to a few non-GAAP measures which may be referenced by our senior executives in the conversation this morning. Please look at our web site for this information. I'd now like to turn the call over to Steve. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY ASIA: Thanks, Larry, and thanks to each of you joining us today. Let me take a minute and start by saying that we're pleased with the results that we announced this morning, but not satisfied. The first quarter was certainly a time of volatility, and we believe we've responded well. We continue to deliver solid volume and earnings growth. We continue to gain share in key markets, and we've become even more nimble and flexible from our day-to-day operations as situations and economical political shifts require. As we mentioned in our release this morning, we've seen weak economic conditions. We've seen declining condition summer confidence and slowdowns in the restaurant hospitality and away from home channels. In addition, we've experienced a lengthy national strike in Venezuela that basically shut down our bus control, gives us additional confidence. In addition, our continued focus on aggressive and cost control gives us additional confidence. With that said, we've outperformed our competitors, making gains in share of sells, in measured channels in most key markets, including the United States, Mexico, China, Spain, France, and Great Britain. We're focused on gaining both volume and value share of sales, as these are important indicators of the health of our business and our brand health indicators are strong, and they're improving in every major market, including Japan, Venezuela, and Germany. Our success against these measures bodes well for our future performance once economic conditions strengthen and highlights strengths of our brands and our franchise on a relative basis. For the period as Gary will outline, our worldwide unit case volume grew 4%. Keep in mind that growth rates in the first quarter were impacted by the ship to the Easter holiday, especially in North America, western Europe and Latin America. Our results also reflect the Coca-Cola system that's working very collaboratively to ensure that both the company and its bottling partners are improving the economics of the entire system. We expect the health of the bottling system to continue to improve, and there is work going on in procurement, information systems, supply chain, innovation and product development that are driving the effectiveness of our local execution and leading the cost savings for all parties involved. Let me take a few minutes to talk about certain factors that impacted on the quarter, picking up on some questions that Larry tells me you may have top of mind. First, in North America, what factors really did impact our results in North America during the quarter? Overall, North America results were solid, with 3% growth for the quarter. Our growth really can be broken into two component, our retail business, which was up over 6%, and our food service business, which was down 4%. We consider this performance very sound, considering the challenging weather, the Easter shift, and the impact of the war on the away from home channel. In the retail division, trademark Coca-Cola grew by over 2%, benefiting from Vanilla Coke, Diet Vanilla Coke , strong diet Coke performance and packaging innovation for our premiere brand Coke. In the food service sector it was sluggish trends in the hospitality and leader channels. There's a very strong co relation between food service business and restaurant traffic. The restaurant industry was hit as people stayed home in the quarter when the weather was extremely bad, and then especially is so once the war started. We believe these are temporary factor, which will present less of a challenge as we move through the year. Second, Germany. What are we doing to address the impact of the deposit law change? Europe's unit case volume overall in the quarter was down slightly, while cycling growth of over 8% in the first quarter of last year, with the exception of Germany, Europe's performance is both strong and on track. In Germany, our business has been negatively impacted by a change in the deposit laws. The mandatory deposit law on non-refillable packages in mineral water and CSDs went into effect January 1st, 2003, and it has been disruptive. Consumers have shifted away from cans. They are moving to refillable packages and selecting beverages that are not subject to the deposit laws, like sports drinks juices and tea. The Coca-Cola system has been able to accommodate the shifting preferences of retailers and consumers to refillable packages. However, we were down in the quarter, as we could not offset the early consumer retreat from cans and the destalking of the inventory in the trade by certain retailers. Our refillable package volume is up sharply, causing our package mix to shift from. 60% refillable to 80% refillable during the quarter. Our infrastructure in Germany has responded quickly to the market conditions. We're proud of what they've been able to do, which has led to improving trends as we progress throughout the quarter and into the second quarter. As we move into the second quarter, we have four major initiatives that will help our business, our approach is first to focus on marketing efforts on refillable packages. Second, to introduce new packages which can capture away from home consumption. Third, to place vendor and cooler emphasis on products which do not currently require a deposit, such as PowerAde, Coo and Nestea, and fourth, work with the government to rich a viewable and lasting solution for the industry. Overall, we believe we've seen the worst of the impact from the change in deposit laws in Germany. We're confident that we're taking the necessary actions to see growth in Germany for the remainder of the year, and we have an infrastructure advantage in refillable returnable packaging on a go-forward basis. We're quickly responding to the new environment and we're optimistic in our ability to turn this situation to a positive advantage for our system. The third question we think you want us to speak to is how much impact did the strike in Venezuela have on our results? Well, as you'd expect, Venezuela was a significant negative in the first quarter, affecting Latin America overall. The Venezuela crisis brought down total Latin America volume by more than one point and it negatively affected operating and equity income as well. In the month of March, we restored full distribution, much faster than our competitors did. We feel good about the fast and flexible way in which the system was able to respond to the situation and frankly, we don't expect Venezuela to negatively impact our results for the rest of the year. Fourth, what's happening in Japan, and will trends improve? Volume in the quarter declined 2%. We experienced solid growth of over 2% in January and February, cycling 7% growth from last year. However, March sales were very soft. The negative volume performance in March was driven by general weakness across the entire consumer goods industry due to unusually cold weather, general uncertainty and consumer security concerns. But even with declining volume, we continue to grow share during the quarter in highly profitable teas, coffee and CSD categories. What's our plan? It's to continue our strong marketing and channel management initiatives, focus on reenergizing the vending channel manage revenue and margin mix, and drive costs out of the supply chain. In addition, we announced during the quarter the formation of a supply chain management company with our bottlers in Japan. The benefits of supply chain management are primarily four-fold. One, more efficient production. Two, lower capital investment. Three, savings and distribution costs, and four, savings and procurement. As we look ahead, we're very confident that the savings from this initiative will be significant. The purpose behind the creation of this entity is to increase value for the entire Coca-Cola system. It will strengthen our financial model and the value of the Coca-Cola system in Japan to the benefit of both the company and our bottlers. Fifth, as the war in Iraq impacted our business, and specifically as negative consumer sentiment toward U.S. companies impacted our results. Short answer, yes, and no. The broader issue, and I've already talked about it, is the uncertainty around consumer confidence caused by the war and the resulting economic conditions. This did have some impact. You'll hear from our leadership team in a moment. We're taking steps in each market to manage through uncertain economic times. Specifically, though, regarding anti-American sentiment, this is a subject that's gotten a lot of media attention in recent weeks and it's something that we're watching very closely. At this time, we do not feel that there's been a reportable impact from this issue on our results. However, we continue to monitor the situation closely. It's premature to say if there are any real changes in consumer habits. We're continuing to follow our operating success formula that has worked for decades across the world. We run local businesses. We rely on local talent. We support local communities. We make local marketing decisions, and we tailor our approach based on local consumer preferences. We're confident that this approach will guide our business well into the future. Last question, are we confident about our future? We're effectively executing our six strategic priorities. We are leading the growth in the beverage industry, both in carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages. Trademark Coca-Cola has been performing very well in key markets like China, Brazil, South Africa, Philippines, North America and western Europe. As our marketing and product information continues to drive preference, the health of trademark Coca-Cola will continue to be strengthened. We continue to extend our position as the lead being marketeering of noncarb. Our focus on a system is to be about achieving the best price, package and channel mix to drive our profit, while also effectively managing our cost structure. We are very well aligned with our bottlers, probably as well aligned with our bottlers today as any time in our history. And we have great momentum around the world from initiatives such as the real campaign, Vanilla Coke, Diet Coke with lemon, PowerAde, fridge pack, Sprite remix and Sprite Ice. In summary, our efforts have been focused on strengthening our brands and making the entire Coca-Cola system more effective. Now, let me turn things over to Gary. 

 GARY P. FAYARD, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Steve. I'd like to highlight our financial performance in the first quarter. Our reported earnings per share for the quarter were 34 cents, and this is after a net reduction of 3 cents per share, resulting from a charge associated with our previously announced stream lining initiatives, and again, relate told a litigation settlement. If one were to consider these two items, earnings per share amount, which we feel is comparable to prior periods, would be 37 cents. Let me address these two specific items and then I'll talk about the remaining results for the quarter. First, on the streamlining initiatives, as we previously announced, we initiated steps to streamline and simplify our operations primarily in North America and Germany. These initiatives are proceeding exactly as planned, and resulted in a first quarter pre-tax charge of $159 million, or 4 cents per share after tax. When calculating the per share amount, I think it's important to recognize that this charge has a slightly higher tax rate, since both the U.S. and Germany have higher tax rates than our corporate average. Consistent with previous comments, the streamlining initiatives are expected to result in a full year 2003 pre-tax charge to earnings of. $400 million. Separate from the stream lining charge, we expect that our financial results will benefit by at least $50 million in the latter part of 2003, and at least 100 million on an annualized basis beginning 2004. Now, let me talk a little bit about the gain on the litigation settlement. During the first quarter, we reached a settlement with certain defendants in a vitamin anti-trust litigation suit. In that litigation, our company alleged that certain manufacturers participated in a global conspiracy to fix the price of vitamins used in the manufacture of some of our products. As a result of the settlement, we received approximately $52 million in cash during the first quarter, which benefited our results by 1 cent per share on an after tax basis. This amount was recorded in the first quarter as a reduction in cost of goods sold. Now, putting these two items aside, as I mentioned, we had comparable earnings per share of 37 cents in the first quarter. In addition, if you consider specific items recorded last year in the first quarter, you would arrive at comparable earnings per share of 34 cents in the first quarter of last year. As mentioned at the start of the call, the specific reconciliation of our reported results and comparable amounts may be found on our company's web site. We are pleased but not fully satisfied with absolute growth, and Steve mentioned our results were delivered with the backdrop of very challenging macro economic conditions, and several short term external factors. Reported operating income declined 7% in the quarter, primarily driven by the negative impact of the streamlining initiatives, partially offset by the positive effect of the litigation settlement. After the impact of these two items, operating income increased 2%, when compared to the prior year's first quarter. This remaining operating income was affected by weak results and our German bottling operation, resulting from the deposit law change, softer than expected food service and hospitality trends in North America, the strike in Venezuela, the weak trends in Japan during March, and increase stock based compensation expense on a year over year basis. As I look forward to the rest of the year, the impact of several of these short term factors should be much less, and we are expecting stronger operating income growth throughout the remainder of the year. In addition, currencies are expected to have a slightly positive impact on results as we move throughout the remainder of this year. Cash from operations for the quarter remain very strong at. $600 million, and this is after making a $145 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in January, which essentially fully funded the plan. In February, we also increased our annual dividend to shareholders by 10%, reflecting the 41st consecutive annual increase of dividends. During the quarter, we also repurchased 8.3 million shares of common stock for approximately $319 million, and we still intend to repurchase. 1.5 billion of stock this year. Although we are not commenting on specific earnings guidance, hopefully the comments that I've given and the perspective from the operators as we go into Q&A today will provide helpful insights into how we're thinking about our business and why we're confident that the continued execution of our strategic priorities will lead to strong financial results in 2003 and beyond. To sum it up, as we look to the factors impacting our first quarter results, we're confident that we will see improving trends in the remainder of the year, specifically, we do not expect another strike in Venezuela. We will not have another month in Germany like January, where consumers and customers were adjusting to a significant deposit change. We will not have a negative impact of the Easter shift remainder of the year. We do not expect that food service and hospitality channels will be as weak, now that the war is ending. We expect that worldwide economic conditions will be stable to possibly start improving, and we expect to get some slight positive benefit from currencies. Considering these factors and the they strong business plan that we have in place, we are confident that our results will improve and be strong for this year and looking forward. Now, we'd love to go to your questions. 

 OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to remind everyone that if you would like to ask a question, please press star and then the number one on your telephone keypad. We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Andrew Conway of CSFB. 

 ANDREW CONWAY, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, Steve and Gary. One part question is, as you move through the year, can you talk a little bit about your confidence level of achieving positive country mix and the associated operating leverage needed to accelerate your operating income growth, and secondly, I don't know if Mary would be willing to talk about whether she is reassessing the rate of category growth in Japan for the non-alcoholic beverage industry just in light of the monthly performances we've seen from the back half of '02, and in that environment, despite your relative share gains, would you expect to see a more challenging category result lead to more diminished EBIT growth in injure Japanese business over time. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Andrew, this is Steve. With respect to the first part of your question, positive country mix, it's our expectation that's exactly what we will see through the remainder of the year. As we said, western Europe is strong. We think it will continue to be strong, as Germany stabilizes, resets itself, restocks its business and gets focused on returnables in the market, effectively executing, we think western Europe, which is a positive contribution cluster of countries from a profit per case point of view, should do very well. Latin America, we think, is going to be strong across the board. And I will let Mary speak to the second part of your question. North America, we think, we're doing very well. We don't expect we'll have a weather problem for the remainder of the year. There were thousands of store days closed for QSR restaurants this year. The rest of the year that shouldn't happen, due to weather. We're hoping that food services start to rebound. There's reason to believe that, based on the way they are now competing and rethinking their menu and their pricing strategies, and we so we think north America bottlers is well positioned and should continue its momentum and this leaves really Japan and I'll let Mary speak to Japan. 

 MARY E. MINNICK, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY LATIN AMERICA: Andrew, yes, let me put this all into context, because it's not a simple issue. You know, you referred to the last several months of trends in Japan. What we've really got are a couple of weeks of softness in key months like December and March. Should we extrapolate those trends to the entire industry and in general for the remainder of the year is a fair enough yes but let me put it in perspective. In the first quarter of 2002, which we're cycling, we were benefiting from euphoric T growth in the category. A record number of new product launches in the history of Japan in March, and we, in particular, had an aggressive supermarket program in place. Despite that cycling in January and February, as we've already said a couple of times, you know we had strong growth in Japan of 2%, cycling 7%. In a couple of weeks in March, what we had was a major crisis of confidence among consumers between the SARS and the war concerns. We had 4% traffic declines in some of our key supermarkets and declines in fountain, combine that with several weeks of poor weather which impacted vending and the fact that we're focusing on share of value in supermarkets, not share of volume. That resulted in some of the numbers that you saw in first quarter, but your question is fair enough. In light of those growth trends, are we evaluating our strategies? It's worth reminding people that we've got about 700 SKUs in Japan with high degrees of margin variability. We can manage our provability at 1%, 2% or 4% growth, based on a constant re-planning of our mix which we do every week in Japan. Fortunately, our system is accustomed to innovation there. We're a very flexible system. We can re-plan on a dime. We can launch new products, we can pull back on new products and question change the mix. So regardless of what the overall category trends are, we believe we can manage the mix for profitability. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Great, and so your view would be, it's too early to reassess your operating plan set forth last fall early in the year for a secular change, but it's something you're going to continue to vigorously watch? 

 MARY E. MINNICK: Absolutely. You know, we have about four business plans in Japan, and we can press the button on do we do Plan 1, 2, 3 or 4 in a 24-hour period. We do a lot of contingency planning in Japan. It's just the nature of our business there. It always has been. We have key points in time where we know when we need to push the button on which plan to sell or emphasize which products and we're doing that. We've done that already in the last couple of weeks, and we will continue to do that for the remainder of the year. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Andrew, this is Steve again. We went through a rather re-exhaustive re-planning process, just as a prudent exercise over the last month, and we've looked at all major markets, and we made some adjustments. We looked at our cost structures. We looked at our marketing investments. We looked at our product mix and innovation. We isolated all the sources of growth. We asked questions about where we were cycling big gains, and whether we had a pipeline we had confidence in to do what we've committed to do, and as a result of that exercise, I think we all walked away with a sense of confidence about what the rest of the year looks like. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: And that, in spite of the perceived to be greater volatility of performance in that market? 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: We're managing the volatility as best we can. In some case, Andrew, all we can manage is what we can directly control, which is our expense base. And so we're hard at-bat. In other places we're managing mix. In other places we're managing channel or price, or level of innovation, and taken together, we think we have a recipe that gets us home. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley. 

 WILLIAM P. PECORIELLO, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning everyone. I have a question about How you are thinking about the marketing investments behind the new vanilla Coca-Cola, Sprite remix, Diet coke with lemon to various markets where you think about the year long investment versus the longer term investment to sustain growth in those brands over time, what type of investment do you make in the outer years in terms of the goals, when those brands will hit a margin similar to the core business? We've seen a lot of these brands get a lot of trial in year one, so naturally, they're down sometimes 40, 50% in year two, and how do you think about investment in those outer years? 

 JEFFERY T. DUNN, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY NORTH AMERICA: Bill, Jeff. Let me take it relative to the U.S. experience. Two things. One, obviously in the launch year, because you're trying to drive trial you're going to have incremental investment, you know. Vanilla Coke is a good example of that. We spent aggressively to launch the brand. After 40 weeks now, we have the strongest trial we've ever seen and repurchase is holding up well. We were able to slip Diet Vanilla Coke efficiently because we didn't put the media behind it and it's generating the strongest repeat on record. You put those two things together and it's very efficient and as we cycle through year one the margins come in line with core CSDs. I think the answer is for CSDs, we're seeing a very efficient kind of launch and then recapture rate as long as they stick. Obviously, as you cycle through them, you're not going to recapture all that trial. So I think from a CSD standpoint and we would expect the same with Sprite remix in the second year, we start getting to levels of profitability we're seeing on the core brands. And in terms of the level of investment, it's going to be specific relative to the individual brand and how it's doing and what we see as the requirement on driving continued trial or holding up repurchase. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Bill, this is Steve. I think what Jeff said is dead-on. If you look at the U.S. strategy it's about launching brands, we hope not products. So it's less about that which moves in and out and more about getting traction and seeing some consistent performance over the longer term. 

 WILLIAM P. PECORIELLO: Great, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Greenburg with Deutsche Banc. 

 MARC GREENBERG, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC: Good morning. My question relates to the spread between concentrate shipments at seven and volumes of four. I'm wondering if we effectively normalized Germany for the transition to returnables. Firstly, what would this type of gap look like, in other words, how much of an inventory build effectively happened because of that transition? 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Mark, Gary. First, on the gallons versus cases of four and seven, that's really a function of the prior year. If you go back and look at first quarter of last year, you'll see the gallons were trailing pretty far behind cases. In absolute numbers, gallons and cases are right in line for the quarter. So it's really just what you're cycling in timing pretty much. Some of it was also around Argentina, because if you remember the crisis in Argentina was first quarter of last year, but really, very little impact, I think, around gallons and cases in Germany. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Great. And then secondarily, I guess a lot of us look at a top line growth of 10% year on year and a gross margin decline of almost 2%, and I was wondering, I know you talked about this a little bit in the preamble and some of the timing factors, but the contributing factors there, specifically Japan as it relates to that gross margin and EBIT margin, and then the incremental new product contribution from water in Mexico here is pretty significant. How should we think about in long-term the margin, you know, moving one way or another both with regards to water in Mexico and Japan? 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Most of the margin change was in fact, due to structural change primarily around the known waters in Mexico, et cetera. If you take the structural change out, you would find that margins are pretty much level with last year, maybe slightly down, and that slightly down is because our country mix, Germany Japan, but margins are holding in there. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Okay, great. Thank you. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: We've got one more on Mexico. 

 JOSE OCTAVIO REYES, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY: On Mexico, you mentioned the water in Mexico. We have the conversion of RISCO to RANSIEL included in those numbers that you've seen and that's the big numbers in terms of water but very importantly, you may recall that the strategy in the RISCO transaction was to have a nationally available, nationally advertised brand something that will compete effectively in the grow in water category and we're doing that. 75% of the RISCO water volume has been already converted this year. The CL numbers that we're seeing now are above the trend of what RISCO used to have, and importantly, 52% of the growth in sales is on personal-sized categories or packages, which are, you know, as profitable as soft drinks. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Thank you. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: The other motivation -- this is Steve -- as you guys will recall when we did this deal was to make sure that we were totally aligned with our bottlers, and taking this brand and allowing us to do that has given us, I think, a system effect, and a system benefit of common focus at a common interest that is also accelerated the success of the brand in the market. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Thanks, Steve. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Sure. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Kanter of Prudential Securities. 

 JEFFREY G. KANTER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC: Good morning, gentlemen. Gary, with respect to cash flows I was surprised to see working capital be such a big drain on year over year cash flows and I was also surprised to see depreciation and amortization essentially flat with year ago levels, although as a percentage of sales it's declined. Can you explain those two changes and why cash flows declined so much year over year? 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Yes, Jeff. 

 JEFFREY G. KANTER: Thank you. 

 GARY P. FAYARD: First, on working capital, in the first quarter of last year, we received a refund for taxes related to a tax issue that we had had in Japan. We received $279 million, which actually saw a decrease in working capital use last year. So if you normalize that, I think you'll find that working capital is right on. We're okay in the working capital area. Relative to depreciation and amortization, I would just say it's very consistent trends that as you know, we've been working very hard over the last several years to control our CAPEX expenditures, our goal had been to keep CAPEX at $1 billion or less. We've been able to do that for a couple of years so you're seeing leveling out of depreciation and amortization. 

 JEFFREY G. KANTER: A quick follow-up question. Steve, as we go through the year, is 5% to 6% still the goal as we go into the second and third quarter year over year volume growth? Because you've been coming up light. Is that still the goal? 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Well, we never said volume targets or profit targets on a per-year basis. We have a long-term operating model. The long-term operating model we have confidence in. 

 JEFFREY G. KANTER: Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Christine Farkus of Merrill Lynch. 

 CHRISTINE FARKUS, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just a quick question on volume growth. If we can break that down to organic versus acquired, specifically in North America and Latin America in the quarter. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Yes, let me take North America. With overall 3% growth organic underneath that was down slightly and that was really a function of our bottle and can. Bottle and can was up very good performance there. Our warehouse business primarily 100% juice business was down, and then fountain, as we've said with the food service business was down, so slightly down on organic growth, but solid growth in our bottle and can business. 

 CHRISTINE FARKUS: Okay, and is there a way perhaps to comment on the profitability of your water ventures, specifically with the Dannon. Has that changed at all given the change in the market environment? 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: We're right on our conformant on the Dannon Business. We set that plan with Dannon as we came into the year. Evian has been a little soft but the Dannon side of the business has been very strong and the strategy of maintaining three tiers of Dannon Dasani and Evian is holding up, as well as especially Dasani, which continues to carry a 25% premium to its major competitor as contained to grow at 40%. We feel comfortable about the three-tier water strategy working. 

 JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: In Latin America, the full effect of acquired volume is in Mexico, as you know, Mexico grew 14%. Nine to ten points of that 14% comes from the RISCO transaction and the strategy is working. The conversion from RISCO to CLS advances were 75% there and CLS has performed extremely well. It's now the leader in personal sizes in Mexico. 

 CHRISTINE FARKUS: Terrific, thanks a lot. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher of JP Morgan. 

 JOHN FAUCHER, ANALYST, JP MORGAN SECURITIES: Yes, good morning, everyone. Quick question on sort of the regional data, and I guess the question is, I'm not sure, was the inclusion of the regional data last quarter sort of a one-shot deal, is that an end of the year thing, or -- I've been under the impression we're going to get that every quarter. If you could follow up in terms of giving us highlights from the regions from an operating profit standpoint in terms of where you felt your strength was from an operating standpoint on a regional basis, since that data wasn't included in the press release. 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Hi John. Gary. Relative to the segment data, we did include it at year-end. We did not include it at this release, only because of timing, the way the calendar fell. We were just not able to get that done, and get it into the release, because we were about a week earlier than we normally would be. We are planning to accelerate our 10-Q filing so that we can get the segment data to you as quickly as possible. Relative to operating performance by segment, what you will see basically is what we talked about today. It will be a little -- the impact of food service, Germany, Japan and Venezuela, and that's basically the impacts you'll see. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Okay, and Gary, if I can do one sort of quick further question, which is, in the annual report, it talks a little bit about, it says the reasonably possible that the company may be required to consolidate some bottlers based on FASB interpretations in number 46. Given FASB, can you give us color on that? 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Yes, the FAS-B issued some new rules called variable interest accounting. I think we and many companies are still trying to understand them and exactly how you apply them, but basically, we think there's a reasonable possibility or it's probable we may have to consolidate a couple of bottlers in the Middle East, where we own less than a majority, but under these new rules we might have to consolidate them. They will be very small. It will be an immaterial impact. At the same time, as an offset to that, I will tell you that we've completed the transaction on COSMOS. We've taken control of the brands and San Miguel, our bottling partner in the Philippines has trean control of the bottling assets. During the second quarter we will be deconsolidating the Cosmos bottler. The net results will be a wash to a slight decrease in assets that are consolidated I think. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Any meaningful profit impact from that? 

 GARY P. FAYARD: No, don't expect any real impact at all. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Thanks. 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Thanks, John. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question Carlos Laboy of Bear Stearns. 

 CARLOS LABOY, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Good morning. I was hoping, if you could walk us through on how you think Brazil is evolving. It sounds like you've got an option to takeover some of the Coke's Brazilian operations and what are some of the conditions that might prompt you to perhaps take over those operations, and on a related matter, there's a lot of talk of tax reform in Brazil. Are the type of reforms on the table the type of reforms that are likely to make a major improvement to your Brazilian business? 

 JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Hi, it's Jose Octavio Reyes. No, we are not contemplating any in terms of transactions in Brazil. We do not have that as part of our horizon. The ideas of types reforms in Brazil, hopefully would lead to a more stable and a level playing field with all of the players involved, and in that sense, I think it would be beneficial. Now, having said that, you and I know that those discussions about tax reforms in Brazil has been there forever. I wouldn't hold my prayers on the outcome of that discussion. 

 CARLOS LABOY: Anything you can give us in terms of color and consolidation in Brazil? 

 JOSE OCTAVIO REYES: Well, we do have a policy, a stated policy of free association, and that is our policy, and it has worked well as the ApanAmcoFEMSA deal has shown, and we believe that will continue to work well in the future. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Carlos, this is Steve. A part of your question that you didn't specifically ask you but it's probably worth noting and he wouldn't mention it because he's too modest. Pacho and Glen and Brian Smith, over the last couple of months have been working very hard to streamline and simplify how we work with bottlers and how we create infrastructure in Brazil and we're very enthusiastic that we've made a lot of progress in Brazil. We are working diligently to get prices up, and that seems to be moving in the right direction. We're also working to get the bottler system properly aligned in Brazil so that we can focus on the kinds of products that will generate the greatest profit for the system. The system's coming together very nicely. There's much more collaboration between the bottlers in the market, and a very high level of trust, and so whether there's literal consolidation or not, what we think we're seeing is substantially more collaboration which is resulting in our ability to better execute in the market, and we're optimistic. 

 CARLOS LABOY: Thank you. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: We're going to take one more question this morning. We've got our shareholders meeting this morning and I think these guys are going to have to get to our shareholders meeting in a minute. We've got time for one more question this morning. 

 OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Bryan Spillane of Banc of America Securities. 

 BRYAN D. SPILLANE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. I just wanted to ask a question about the streamlining initiative. First was there any benefit in the first quarter, you know, in terms of cost savings and in the second, just in terms of kind of where you stand, what you've done so far, there's been some concern there'd be some disruption going into the summer selling season, and if you can just talk about what you've done so far and how you feel about that as you move into the summer. 

 JEFFERY T. DUNN: This is Jeff. On the North American streamlining efforts, we're right on schedule. We executed against the restructuring effort at the end of March on the 27th. Most people found out their destiny. Obviously the layoffs happened. There was no benefits in the first quarter. The benefits will start accruing and we've got meetings planned with all of our associates as we go through the next couple of weeks to get them refocused. We feel very comfortable there's going to be little disruption as a result of this because of how it was planned, and implemented, and there were certainly none in the first quarter and I would not expect any in the remainder of the year. 

 BRYAN D. SPILLANE: Does it impact any people directly facing with customers? 

 JEFFERY T. DUNN: Yes. It impacted. What we tried to do in terms of the customer basing organizations is limit that. In fact, the account executive kind of people we limited it as much as possible. A lot of this was back shop, and when we have the two new organizations up with a retail and a food service organization, the feedback from most customers and we've talked to the top hundred customers in the U.S. in the last 30 days, they are excited about this customer basing organization, because the retail and food service organization also represent all the different brands and packages. So I think that the response has been very positive, and again, I wouldn't think that we're going to have a lot of disruption going into the summer selling season. 

 BRYAN D. SPILLANE: That's great. Thank you. 

 JEFFERY T. DUNN: Well, thank you, everybody. We appreciate your participation. If have you any additional questions, Larry will be around. We have an annual meeting of shareholders now, and over the next couple of days, should anybody want to talk to Larry, Gary, or me or any of the operators, we'll figure occupant how to make that happen. 

 STEVEN J. HEYER: Thank you. 

 GARY P. FAYARD: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: This concludes today's Coca-Cola conference call. You may disconnect at this time.--- 0 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   AN
Document fndw000020030416dz4g003ph
  


 HD
 Q4  2002 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,806 words
   PD
12 February 2003
   ET
02:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Jason. I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company fourth quarter end full year 2002 conference call. All participant lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question and answer period. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. And questions will be taken in the order they are received. If you would like to withdraw your question, press star and then the number two. I'd also like to remind everyone that the purpose of this call is to talk with investors. And therefore, questions from media participants will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should regard the discussion as background information only, and should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have additional questions. 

   TD
  I would now like to introduce Larry Mark, director of investor relations, who will begin the conference. 

 LARRY MARK, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning, everybody. Thank you for joining us. I am pleased this morning to be joined by Douglas Daft our chairman and chief executive officer. And Gary Fayard our chief financial officer. In addition we have the senior operating officers with us today. They'll be participating in the Q&A session. They are Brian Dyson,our vice chairman , Steve Heyer,our president and chief operating officer ,Sandy Allan who heads up Europe, Alex Cummings who heads up Africa, Jeff Dunn, for North America, Mary Minnick for Asia , and Jose Octavio Reyes our president for the Latin America group. Our prepared comments will be brief. We plan to use most of our time this morning for Q&A session. 

 So that we can get to as many as of your questions as possible, we would ask you to try to considerate of others and limit yourself to one question during your turn. If you have more questions, please return to the queue. Before I'd like to remind everybody that this conference call does contain forward-looking statements including statements concerns our long-term Volume and earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and exhibit 99.1 of the company's most recent form 10-K. Now I'd like to turn things over to Mr. Daft. 

 DOUG DAFT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Larry. I assume now that everybody with us this morning is -- has had a chance to see our earnings release. And as Larry has indicated, I'll keep my prepared remarks very brief so we can allow maximum question time. Let me open by saying we have concluded a strong fourth quarter and a strong 2002. Our results reflect a clear focus on executing our six strategies. They reflected everyone in our organization understands these strategies. They reflect the fact that the strategies work. And it also shows, and I'm quite proud of this, the dedication and the ability and the depth of our senior management team. Now that you have heard me say very often that when our system, that's our brands, our employees, our bottling partners when our system works together, we are absolutely unbeatable. And the system is working together. 

 All of our financial metrics support our performance. Gary will take you through these in a moment, but quickly the worldwide case volume just short of 19 billion cases and 20 billion dollars of revenue, a record 5.5 billion of operating income. Cash from operations, up 15% to 4.7 billion. And after investing activities we generate 3.6 billion in cash, which in fact is 22% over 2001. Our reported EPS of 123 which included 54 cents of one-time adjustments which in turn also included 11 cents per share impact from stock option expense as we adopted the so-called modified prospective method of expensing these options. This currency negatively impacted our supply further 8 cents a share. Steve and all the operating team today are totally focused on executing our six strategic priorities. And we're confident that 2003 results will reflect just that. We'll see stronger growth in beverages led by Coca Cola, continued strong growth in our noncarb portfolio, and improved profitability from the already solid profit base established for this part of our business in 2002. 

 Our results will reflect the continued collaborative relationship with all our bottlers, and continued improvement in bottler economics. This trend actually built in 2002. We'll see continued market share growth and value share growth. And 2003 will see strong financial results. From our company. Now, I often get questions about the environment. We do business in. And certainly the macroeconomic environment last year, 2002, was difficult. But we achieved our strong results in spite of that. And I think as everybody realizes, the macroeconomic and the political environment in 2003 will be challenging. But I've got to emphasize we have a well thought out, clearly defined strategy and a focus on execution. And with this in hand we are confident in our ability to lead industry growth, and deliver solid financial results. We're prepared for complexity. It's built into our plans and programs and nothing I know today would lead me to change the way I outlined our business for 2003 when we met with many of you last December. Now, let me hand over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you. I'd like to continue this morning by giving you a few facts by what we have achieved in the past year. First, I'd like to give a few comments abut our performance versus the overall industry. As you saw in this morning's release, our worldwide volume grew 5% for the year or by nearly 950 million incremental cases. When you compare this to the 2% growth rate of the worldwide commercial beverage industry, or the 4% growth rate of the worldwide nonalcoholic ready to drink beverage segment, you can see that we are leading the growth within our industry. As you also saw in today's release, we outpaced the industry across all major beverage categories. This is further evidence that our focus on our strategic priorities is clearly showing results. Now, let me make a few comments about the numbers. 

 As Doug stated, our reported earnings per share were $1.23. This is after a reduction of 54 cents per share resulting from the adoption of FAS 142 related to goodwill and other intangible assets. The expensing of stock options and several charges and gains from earlier in the year in Latin America. Most of these items were from earlier in the year and they are described in detail in earnings release. Therefore, I will not go into each of them at this time. However, I do want to mention briefly the accounting for stock options. As announced earlier this year, we adopted a policy to expense the fair value of employee-based compensation. Based on the transition rules that were issued at the end of December, in FAS 148, we selected the modified prospective approach to recording stock based compensation expense. We think the modified prospective approach is better than the alternatives, as it allows easier evaluation of our growth rates and our performance in the future. 

 Under this approach, we started recording expenses for stock options, starting at the beginning of this past year as of January 1, 2002. As a result, the previous reported quarterly results for 2002 have been restated to reflect the impact of adopting this new FASB ( the word inaudible)statement. But also please recognize that when you are comparing our results with prior years that under the modified prospective approach, financial results for 2001 and prior years have not been restated. The overall impact of adopting the fair value method was a non cash adjustment for 2002 of 373 million dollars pretax, or 11 cents per share after tax. As we mentioned in our earnings release, this expense was spread fairly equally throughout the quarters. We are very explicit in the release on the amounts by quarters so that you can quantify the impact of expensing stock options when you are comparing with our results to those of others. We will continue to provide you full information so that you have all the facts in the event that you would like to make comparisons to companies which are not expensing stock options. 

 Lastly in this area, we expect the stock based compensation expense in 2003 will be approximately 13 cents per share after tax. Which is slightly higher than the 11 cents per share impact in 2002. In the years after 2003, I do not expect any significant increases in the annual stock-based compensation expense. I believe for modeling purposes that most analysts have been building in approximately 3 cents per share in 2003 under the previous required rampup methodology. Therefore, we would expect to see an adjustment of 10 cents by most analysts purely related to this accounting change for stock options. Let me reiterate though that this new accounting treatment for stock options does not impact our cash flows or the underlying economics of our business. As you know, we have taken a very proactive approach to ensuring our financial statements, take the information that was previously included as a footnote disclosure and we're now including that in our income statement. In fact, from discussions with the international accounting standards board and the (inaudible) I believe that all companies will be required to do this same accounting in the future. 

 Let me move on to a few other items. As Doug stated, our business model continued to generate strong results. We had a record operating income of 5.5 billion dollars for the year, and this is even after reflecting the stock option expense. As reflected in the operating segment results in our earnings release, our international operations generated operating income of 4.7 billion, reflecting one of the true competitive advantages of the Coca-Cola system. With 80% of the growth in the beverage industry projected to come from outside the United States over the next five years, this clearly demonstrates how well positioned we are to capture those growth opportunities. Additionally, as we discussed with many of you in December, our average profit per case on noncarbs is approximately twice that of carbonated soft drinks. And remember that we have actually been in the investment phase for this segment of our business over the last three years. 

 So I would expect to see continuing improving profitability from noncarbs. Equity income which reflects our investments in the bottling system around the world and as representative of the improving health of the Coca-Cola system, increased over 25% to 384 million dollars. Our return on capital was a healthy 24.5% and return on equity was over 34%. Our cash from operations were superb increasing 15% during the year and we continue to use our cash resources very effectively. Our dividend increased to 11% in 2002. The 40th consecutive year of a dividend increase. And we allocated 700 million dollars to share repurchase. Over the next five year we remain confident that we'll generate at least 31 to 33 billion in cash from operations, and spend less than 5 billion on capital expenditures. Now, turning to the current year, as we stated in December, we are not going to give specific earnings per share guidance for quarters or for the full year. 

 However, we said we would continue to provide you with prospective on our value drivers. Strategic initiatives and factors critical to understanding our business and operating environment. First, we continue to be confident in delivering our long-term growth goals of 5 to 6% volume and 11 to 12% earnings per share growth. Secondly, we expect 2003 to be a strong year as we continue executing our six strategic priorities. Then let me give you a few more comments about different areas. Economic conditions, macroeconomic conditions are expected to remain challenging in certain parts of the world, but most economists are expecting improved conditions in 2003 versus 2002. Keep in mind that there are some uncertainties that exist surrounding the Middle East and the impact of this that this could have on global economic conditions. Concentrate pricing. 

 Our expectation is that revenues will increase ahead of unit case growth as we realize price increases in line with global inflation at 1 to 2%. Relative to currency, based on our current estimates, currencies are expected to have a neutral to slightly positive impact on earnings per share in 2003. Relative share repurchase, as I said we repurchased about 700 million dollars worth of shares in 2002. We will accelerate that to at least double that level in 2003. Pension expense as we discussed in December, we have lowered our expected return on planned assets and have lowered it --from 8.25% to 7.25%. As we had also discussed in December the net effect on this pension change on 2003 results will be about a penny per share additional pension expense. We did make a contribution to the pension plan in January and it is fully funded. On our streamlining initiatives, the company is integrating the operations of its three separate North American business units which will result in a head count reduction of approximately 1,000 people. 

 The company's bottler CCAG in Germany is also closing three bottling plants which will affect approximately 900 employees in that country. These two initiatives are expected to result in a full year charge of earnings of approximately 400 million dollars on a pretax basis, and this will primarily be in the first and second quarters with some amounts impacting the second half. Regarding savings from these initiatives, the German savings will be invested in that market as part of the restaging of the German business. There will be savings from the North American initiatives that will float through to the bottom line they're expected to benefit 50 million pretax in 2003 and at least 100 million dollars on an annualized basis beginning in 2004. Regarding other streamlining initiatives, we do not expect any other charges beyond these that we have just discussed. 

 Those are the primary items that you should consider as you look at 2003, although we are not commenting on specific earnings guidance. Hopefully the comments above and the prospective from the operators today will provide helpful insight as we move forward in 2003. But to sum it up, the Coca-Cola Company by any measure is very strong. We have the right strategy in place. We have collaborative relationships with our bottlers. And are working to strengthen the entire system. We have a broad portfolio of brands to satisfy all of our consumers beverage needs. And we have reasserted marketing innovation and excellence worldwide. Now, let's move to your questions. 

 Operator? 

 OPERATOR: At this time, I would like to remind everyone that if you would like to ask a question, please press the star, then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press star and then the number two. We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Andrew Conway with CSFB. 

 ANDREW CONWAY, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning. Doug and to the operators, my questions really revolve strategically. It looked as though your global business accelerated a little bit in fourth quarter to 3% from a 2% run rate. In your operating planning process for 2003 do you anticipate accelerated CSD growth to continue? And Doug, I'm budgeting strategically about 4, 4.5% global volume in year. In light of your improved execution, innovation pipeline and portfolio brand management, is that enough to offset some of the challenging macro and geopolitical issues? In other words, can you profitably grow volume closer to your long-term targets of 5% this year? 

 DOUG DAFT: You should join our planning group, Andrew. Let me first of all, I'll make brief comment. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Sure. 

 DOUG DAFT: Then I'll hand it over to Steve and then pull everybody in terms of the carbonated priorities. I think I said at the beginning, our absolute priority this year is to accelerate our carbonated business, led by brand Coca-Cola. I believe we saw that momentum build through 2002. And, in fact, accelerate toward the end of the year. I without commenting on the 4.5, and I'll leave the details to bring that through, let me emphasize that the things that I also said is that we have actually got a plan that incorporates assumptions about the environment which we do business in. We believe that the these --that these assumptions always are on the conservative side, but we build our plans and our -- and what we see the business doing around these assumptions. We have a very, very clear method of handling what we see in our environment, which makes us confident then about what we will achieve during the year. Steve, do you want to add to that? 

 STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT AND CEO, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Well, Andrew, I think Doug hit the highlights. The commitment we have across the entire system is that trademark Coke is a key focus and trademark Coke, we have plans in place that we feel very comfortable will cause real growth. Across the rest of the CSD portfolio, we're also focused on putting renewed energy behind Sprite. We think we have made tremendous moves forward in making Fanta a critically important piece of our portfolio. And it is an element that we will also Heavily focus on this year. We have the enthusiastic support of the bottling system around the world to do that. With respect to your question about the growth rate and the economic difficulty that you kind of imbedded in there, our business plan assumes that we can through proper management of costs grow our margins. 

 And that is one of my primary areas of focus this year as Doug has instructed. And we're encouraged that we're taking the actions to get the growth that's consistent with our long-range plan target and at the same time protect profitability should that be an issue anywhere in the world by constant pressure on nonmission critical expense management. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mike Branca with Lehman Brothers. 

 MIKE BRANCA, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. You've frightened your worldwide volume growth in 2002 in the context of the commercial and nonalcoholic drink segment. I was hoping you could drill down a little bit more detail on your key countries outside of North America, specifically enlighten us with your market share performance either by value or volume preferably by the nine alcoholic-rated drink beverage market. Also in that context, Doug, in your prepared remarks you talked of stronger CSD and you touched on this in the earlier question. Can you help us get a sense as to how Coca-Cola trademark's behavior would be going forward and how much you expect to come from line extension, again outside of North America? 

 DOUG DAFT: Yeah. I'll let Steve handle that. Mike, he's sitting there. He's dying to do it. 

 STEVE HEYER: Well, I have the data, Mike, so I thought I'd share it. On a top-line basis, every SBU, every major region in the world grew share. I think that's an incredibly important thing for you to register. Secondarily with the exception of Germany, every major market of ours in the world on a country basis grew share. And in some cases pretty dramatically. And so we feel very pleased with our relative position and with the momentum we have and keeping momentum is an act of will. And we've committed to one another that going forward we'll we are focused on both volume share and value share and the profitability that flows from those trade-offs. But it was by any measure a very strong growth year for us against category growth numbers. 

 MIKE BRANCA: Okay. In terms of trademark Coke and the broadening out of the portfolio there? 

 STEVE HEYER: Well, I think we're going to continue to innovate, but we're going to see fundamental growth in the core in what we're defining trademark Coke today. A lot of growth in Diet Coke around the world. A lot of growth in Vanilla Coke as it rolls out around the world. Pretty substantial growth in Diet Coke with Lemon as it rolls out around the world. And the core business is a key focus, sugar Coke and we are optimistic about the growth that we believe we can get in that core brand too. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Andy, what did you comment on Diet Coke or Cokelite as it's called in Europe which is seeing an extraordinary ... 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Sure. Andrew, good morning. Mike, sorry. 

 MIKE BRANCA: That's all right. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Call him Fred, Mike. Um, Mike, if we look at Europe in an earlier analyst conference call, I said that I really believe that the moment for Diet Coke and Cokelight in Europe had come. And if we look at our performance in 2002, the grasp of Diet Coke was 11% and we've rolled out Diet Coke with Lemon in 11 countries as well. And on core, what I call core Diet Coke, we've also had stunning growth in some countries, especially in eastern Europe where we had growth in excess of 20%. As we have progressively put more money behind Diet Coke, so to the point that we would believe that the future growth of Diet Coke in Europe is a very sustainable double digit going into the future. 

 MIKE BRANCA: Okay. Thank you, sandy and Steve, if at some point you can clarify what a lot and what pretty substantial growth rates really mean, I'd appreciate it. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Well - 

 MIKE BRANCA: Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: We'll do what we can within the bounds of what we're allowed to say. 

 MIKE BRANCA: Got it. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bill Pecoriello with Morgan Stanley. 

 BILL PECORIELLO, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. I was hoping Mary can give us more color on Japan in terms of the industry weakness in fourth quarter because you alluded to the share gains. And then the magnitude and timing of the savings you see for the bottler network and how you're managing the positive mix shift there through the weaker volumes in driving profits? 

 MARY MINNICK, ASIA, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Yes, bill, you know, Japan is a difficult economic environment and no reason to expect that to particularly change one way or the other. So under those conditions what is our criteria for success? We think it's threefold. Number one, are we outgrowing the industry which indicates your brands are healthy and competitive? And the answer to that is yes, we've done that for six quarters in a row. Second criteria is of the top-line growth that you're getting, is it managed towards the products that one are your core and therefore important to your base. And two, that are incremental in terms of their margin. And the answer to that is yes, we have healthy core brand growth. In fact, greater than the corporate averages as a whole on brands like sokenbicha (ph) and Diet Coke. And the third criteria of course is the cost reductions. 

 Which we've talked extensively about. That we believe are on the table in both the short and the midterm substantial over the next three years. So relative to Japan, that's our three criteria for success. On the other side of the equation from a volume standpoint, we have exponential growth in other countries in the Asia portfolio. The Indias and the Chinas of the world are high double digits. And from a profit standpoint, there are certain profit gems within the Asia group that we can polish this year, an we did in fact polish last year and despite the softness in the fourth quarter in Japan, the company still made its objectives and as a result of, you know, intelligent portfolio management with other countries within Asia. Particularly south Pacific, the Philippine, Thailand and so on. 

 BILL PECORIELLO: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Caroline Levy, with UBS. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Caroline? 

 OPERATOR: Please go ahead, Ms. Levy, your line is open. 

 CAROLINE LEVY, UBS: Can you hear me? I was asking if we can have the same discussion about Mexico which of course had a great quarter, but if we could just talk about what the financial center together means going forward and what the outlook looks like for Mexico given the recent peso devaluation and the tie to the United States? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Good morning. That's bringing together I think to our best operators in the --in the deal that is bound to bring Deficiencies toward the system. As mentioned, there are a lot of opportunities in terms of sales execution, in terms of production, distribution. Efficiencies in terms of administrative overlaps that are bound to happen or that had happened before. And this several of you have pointed out, that is something that's going to be beneficial to the Mexican market and to increase the power of what it is today a very strong system. One of the strongest systems in the world. Mexico is looking is looking I believe on the positive side. Most analysts believe that the economic outlook for the country will continue to be tied to the U.S., but slowly as experienced by this past year. We believe that it will continue in that route. We're very confident of the power of our system and the combined strengths of Coca-Cola. 

 CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you. Would it be possible to touch on Germany and the outlook there? 

 SANDY ALLAN, EUROPE, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Hello, Caroline. 

 CAROLINE LEVY: Hi, Sandy. 

 SANDY ALLAN: Germany, while there's no doubt that the economic situation in Germany is challenging, and the change of government that took place not the change, but the continuation of the old government under Mr. Schroeder ... 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Don't make political comments going forward. 

 SANDY ALLAN: No no. No political comments. But Mr. Schroeder I think as you read, Caroline, is having difficulty. He's lost two provincial elections recently in December, and therefore, the government remains fragile. And of course if you have a fragile government, it doesn't allow economic reform to carry on. Because I know it and you know that Germany needs substantial reform in its welfare system and labor practices But a difficult environment. I think from our business perspective, I mean, as you know there's been some recent deposit legislation which has resulted in a very difficult situation in the marketplace where consumers are finding it difficult to return containers in which they have paid a deposit. 

 Fortunately, our business before this deposit was put into force was 50% returnable. And we do see an opportunity to promote our returnable package and we are in a unique position because no other competitor in Germany has anything near the returnable capacity that we have. So although our business is being negatively affected in the short term in single serve packages, that like the half liter and the can, already we are seeing that the loss that we are having in non returnable take-home packages is being compensated by an increase in our take-home returnable packages. So we are confident in Germany as we move forward that the German business will, from our perspective, be solid in 2003. 

 CAROLINE LEVY: Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John with JP Morgan. 

 JOHN FAUCHER, JP MORGAN: Thanks. If I can, I'd like the congratulate all you have in terms of increasing the level of disclosure in the press release, particularly in terms of the organic volume numbers and the regional operating profit. I think it's a huge improvement and I think people really appreciate it. So looking at that, I was wondering if sandy could give us an idea in terms of his outlook for European operating profit which was really sort of the bright spot from an operating standpoint this year, and then Gary, if you can talk to us, it appears as though corporate was a pretty big leverage area in this quarter particularly. It seems as though corporate drove a lot of the operating profit growth year over year. Can you let us know what drove that and how sustainable that is looking out over the next year or so? 

 SANDY ALLAN: Well, as far as Europe is concerned in 2002, we had a satisfactory year. And the reason we had the satisfactory year is that we got marginal improvement in our business, as well as having solid volume growth. And solid volume growth was in soft drinks which grew by 2% led by trademark Coke and also a continuing expansion into noncarbs which grew at 36% on a profitable basis. And I see no reason that we cannot continue in the same VEIN. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Great. Gary, do you have any thoughts on the corporate side? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yeah, John, thanks. Relative to corporate, we have been doing a lot of work. As Steve said, we have a real focus around leverage of our expense lines, and it's not only in corporate, but also across all of the operating units globally as well. But I would expect to see continued leverage coming out of corporate a we continue to refine exactly what accountabilities are as we have gone through the streamlining with North America. I expect to see a lot more efficiency being able to leverage that. So I would expect to continue to see leverage coming out of the corporate operating expenses as well. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: So we should expect the G&A improvements you have spoken over the last six months or so should be a combination of corporate and then we should see them roll out in the regional lines as well then? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yes. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: You will also see some benefit around procurement and other activity areas in our numbers, but even more substantial improvement we expect in our bottler numbers. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Got it. great. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Cohen with Goldman Sachs. 

 MARC COHEN, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. You know, it's very clear that you have stepped back the emphasis up on growing the carbonated soft drink business, but I wonder if Mr. Daft and Steve Heyer, I wonder if you can address two things from a strategic stand point. One being after having made this big investment to really build out the noncarb business, where do you see that effort in terms of scale and scope today and sort of as you look out over the next several years, what kinds of things do you feel you need to do to complete that process? And I guess I'd also like to get a sense of having worked so hard with the bottlers to set them on a positive course where incomes rising and returns on capital are improving you know, how you see that situation playing out between yourselves and the bottlers over the next two or three years as well? 

 DOUG DAFT: Mark, it's Doug. First, on the noncarb, yeah, we have built now -- again, remember now that -- I mean we in the industry draw an artificial distinction, consumer choose what they want to drink. We're offering the consumers the choice of what they want We look at it in industry jargon versus the way that the consumer looks at it which is what do I want to drink and we want them to drink one of our brands. So we have built what we call a noncarb business very successfully in the last several years. It's now 15% of our global volume. That's roughly 3billion cases to put it in context, and you measure that in terms of, you know any other person, any other company, the industry, it is in its own right a huge business. 

 We have of course been in an investment mode. It has from the very beginning delivered profits and will continue to deliver that profit. What we're applying are the same principals and continue to build that business because to us it is a drink. It is a beverage that we successfully applied in the so-called carbonated business, soft drink business which is building scale, building efficiencies in the business, building brands and as time goes on, getting increasing returns, margin returns as these businesses become as the brands become established. And as the investment phase moves into stage two of brand building. So certainly that process will continue. This is something that just continues to build the strength of the Coca-Cola system. It's not any good for us. It's been good for the bottlers. The situation with the bottlers, I describe as in two ways as it's collaboration. And as you see so many signs, Mark, and I'll hand it over to Steve in a minute. But we're both very passionate about this sort of bottler issuer as are all the operating folks, because it's the system that strengthens. 

 So I see it as both collaboration and you see so many signs of that. You see the new venture in North America. The work that was being conducted in Japan. The fact with we announced earlier this year, a statement earlier this year that our China bottlers and ourselves are building infrastructure in China. We're working together as you heard Sandy talk with the key bottlers in Europe on infrastructure and efficiencies. So all of the signs of collaboration, true collaboration and the benefits for the system are there. And then a recognition that we had we needed to and we did put the bottlers back on the path of economic health. And as I said, we see that momentum which began -- sorry, it picked up strongly in 2002. I think Gary mentioned a 25% growth rate in the bottler economics, our equity share which is a measure of their own success. We see that momentum building. Steve, you want to - 

 STEVE HEYER: I can't add to that. I think you answered the question. Mark if there's anything specific that Doug didn't cover that we can handle, but I think Doug sure did justice to your question. 

 MARC COHEN: Yeah. I guess if one part of it that maybe I didn't ask and should be addressed is you as part of an effort to strengthen the balance system have obviously put some of your own capital to take them back in. How do you see that playing out you know, over a few years? Is this level of investment that you in today should that be thought of as a level investment that should stay, but maybe rotate through properties or do you envision in any meaningful way being able to eventually get capital back out of the bottlers? 

 GARY FAYARD: Mark, it's Gary. Why don't I take that one, and then Steve may add a few comments of his own. But here's how I would think about it. We actually have a lot of capital and investments in 100% owned bottlers around the world today. I have told you previously that a lot of those bottlers we will reduce our ownership or sell completely because many of those are not strategic. Some are such as our investments in Coca-Cola enterprises, et cetera. But others are not. We will sell those bottlers and so it will reduce our own capital. That's number one. But in very importantly I think as you look at what we're doing around the entire system globally on being able to take capital out of the entire system equation, you can see that from the initiatives that we have going on in North America today, you can see it in initiatives we have going on that Mary is leading in Japan and China. We've got some going on in Brazil. We are doing this around the world. And in fact reducing total capital requirements not only for the Coca-Cola Company but also for the entire Coca-Cola system. 

 STEVE HEYER: The only thing I'd add, Mark, if you look at the work that we have been doing with the major bottlers around the world in procurement I.T. shared services, what you see is capital avoidance of substantial amounts on behalf of all of us because of the sharing and the leveraging that we're able to accomplish and we're very optimistic about what the impact -- what that impact will mean to the system over the next couple of years. 

 MARC COHEN: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Mark Swartzberger (ph) with Legg Mason. 

 MARK SWARTZBERGER, LEGG MASON: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. A question for you, Mr. Daft or Steve on some of your opening comments regarding carbs growth in '03. I wonder if you can unpack a bit more for us, there's a lot of confidence there. I know we have talked about it in this Q&A and some of your prepared remarks, but if you can unpack that confidence for us a bit more to the extent it's relevant include any commentary on bottlers' incentives to help you achieve that objective, that would be helpful. 

 DOUG DAFT: Yeah. Mark, a quick comment. It's Doug Daft. First of all, global emphasis on -- let's call it Coca-Cola classics in the United States, as evidenced by the new campaign which you don't declare success instantly, but very you know, very strong initial positive feedbacks and Steve will elaborate a little bit from the consumer. You know, and the bottlers and our own people and everybody who watches Coke which is most of the world. So that's that of course gives us great impetus and momentum behind that brand. Then you add the success of Vanilla Coke and Diet Vanilla Coke in the U.S. which will give us full year results in 2003, et cetera. And the fact that this has proven to be a highly successful brand from Sydney to London. Diet Coke you heard Sandy talk through, that is a worldwide phenomenon. Diet Coke, Cokelight, whatever it's called in various countries from some countries to a small base, but the results are extremely strong. 

 Add that to that a very good acceptance of Diet Coke with Lemon on a global business and roll out through that will continue to add to this momentum behind the trademark Coca-Cola but every part underneath the trademark that' number one. Number two, Fanta had a fabulous year last year. It was I think broken out in the earnings report 6% growth. It's a function of the strength of the brand that's been built in all countries, from Latin America through Asia through Europe. The extensions that we add which are timely and appropriate to that flavored brand, and as I said, just the momentum once built in our system in the system itself gets behind the brand. So I think the combination of that and we've already talked about the priority that Sprite will have in North America and will continue to have in the global business. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: The only thing I'd add operationally, Mark, we are focused on obviously leveraging price pack channel with these brands very aggressively dealing with affordability in some parts of the world and deal with convenience, packaging innovation is going to be the important element of that. As will line extensions around the core. We have marketing momentum Doug alluded to it. We're feeling pretty good so far. Obviously the proof will be in our sales, but we're feeling very comfortable that we've got great advertising in development for Coke. Early testing, quantitatively with a panel of a couple of thousand teens tells us that this campaign is the strongest in the category and maybe a decade. So that we think puts us in a good place to see continued upside. Innovation will continue to be important in every aspect of how we go to market. And then last, I think the bottling system is really committed and we have plans that are very well aligned in all major markets where our business plan and their business plan, read like the same business plan. 

 MARK SWARTZBERGER: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Kanter with Prudential Securities. 

 JEFF KANTER, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Good morning, gentlemen. Once again, thanks for the disclosure on the press release. I thought that was very helpful. Gary, how much of your charge -- how much of the 400 million dollar charge this year is going to be cash? 

 GARY FAYARD: Jeff, of the 400, I would expect probably 300 to 325, somewhere in that range would be cash. 

 JEFF KANTER: Okay. When we -- you know, when you consider this 1.5 billion in share repurchase or so, basically all of your free cash flow, it will be either put towards this charge or the share repurchase that's fair? 

 GARY FAYARD: Well, I would consider the share repurchase will be some --as you say around the streamlining cost. And there will also be some that goes to dividends and I would expect the board would have a we will propose a dividend increase to the board next week to make it 41 consecutive years. there will be some small acquisition activity. Near a good cash position, and very strong financially. 

 JEFF KANTER: Fair enough. You know, Steve, I guess what we're all trying to figure out is when are we going to get a return on these investments? You know, as I look through your P&L in 2002, your operating income growth has been in line with your shipment or below. When you strip out all the charges and everything like that. And we have been going through this investment stage. You know, are we passed it now? Are we going to start to see operating income leverage? Hopefully that's not just from lower corporate expenses but just as a segment levels, is the heavy lifting over? Because that's -- that to me is kind of the real key, because you haven't been get anything type of margin left. 

 GARY FAYARD: Jeff, Gary again. Let me get that. Number one, we will be getting leverage in expense lines going forward. As we have talked about earlier. A lot of the investment phase that we talked about. You know, if you go back three years ago, we really were a carbonated soft drink company. And today we are the largest carbonated soft drink company and we are basically the largest non carbonated beverage company in the world in three short years. Those three years, yeah, we have developed and invested behind and introduced and grown significantly in the noncarb area as well. Well, what you see us doing now is in fact increasing your profitability because we're kind of out of the feeding and investment stage, if you will and now starting to grow profitability on those brands which as I said were already almost twice that op CSD. I think you'll see a lot of leverage coming in a lot of the different lines that's why we're very confident not only in operating results but back to the free cash flow very, very good returns. 

 JEFF KANTER: So no matter what the volume growth numbers are, in 2003, you know, if we strip away whatever the currency impacts are going to be on a quarterly basis, if you don't see any lift, you'd consider that a disappointment? 

 GARY FAYARD: We should be getting some leverage, yes. Not only in pricing, some in cost of goods and then some in the expense line. So you should be seeing that coming through in all those lines. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: It will be a function of scale supply chain, reinvention and regionalization or globalization in some cases of brands. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: And the other thing, Jeff, you've got to remember we're doing what we do best which is build brands so the investment you're talking about in fact is a marketing investment in building that brand. Which of course will get the returns on as opposed to if you like a capital investment. So for PowerAde for example which is now I believe in 70 countries, that it wasn't in eight months ago has been done as we built that brand and the investment in marketing which of course the payback comes once the availability is there. 

 JEFF KANTER: Okay. So we just all -- we're just all hoping that the operating assets are going to start to stay flat here. And this sounds like that that's the plan. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Alex Patterson with Dresdner RCM (ph). 

 ALEX PATTERSON, DRESDNER RCM: Good morning. Just the market share point you guys made, was that value shares on the increase? Just want to clarify that. And secondly, kind of a broad question, sort of stepping back if you guys have, you know, transitioned the company, repositioned it, and the incentives in place for management long term hit the algorithms of 5% volume 11 to 12% earnings. With all the changes that have gone on with accounting and options and all these things, would you give us a sense, does the 11 to 12% long term growth work off the base from 2000 which options was like $1.55 or so. Or do we sort of reset the bar here? The implication is to hit that 11 to 12 from off the base back then we've got quite a rapid increase in earnings growth in front of us. I just wanted to know whether you guys were comfortable with that vis-a-vis where your incentives are lined up? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Let me take first piece of that on volume share and value share. We have hard data on volume share and some with softer data on value share. The hard data absolutely indicates that our volume share is up as I indicated everywhere. And our softer data around value share also confirms that conclusion. I think we're very comfortable that our value share actually did better than our volume share. It's just hard for me to prove that. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: That's okay. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Jeff? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Yeah. The other thing, if you look at different categories I think you have different dynamics. If you look at the water business for example in North America we grew volume share last year, but relative to the major competitors we grew value share faster. I think each category is going to have slightly different dynamics, but the goal would be across all of them to accelerate value share. You know, it's easy to give stuff away. We have been through that cycle. So the strategies are all with our bottlers, focused on driving value share and volume but not volume at the expense of the system's margin. That's a mistake. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: Okay. Good. That's clear. 

 DOUG DAFT: It is Doug. The best answer on incentives is to say that our incentives are in line with our expected performance. People will have incentive if we achieve the results that we believe we will achieve. Now, I know that's open ended but you have to be with incentives. Let me emphasize for the operating management of our company which of course is most of the people who benefit from the incentives. We have always measured their performance in the currency with which they do business in. I know we're a U.S.-dollar based organization and our corporate performance is a function of U.S. dollar results. But we are in 200 countries, and the only way you can incentivize management in those environments and we have done this forever is to ensure that our operating management incentives are based on what they're selling which is local currency. So that may help understand how our management in fact measures itself and believes that it will benefit from that. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: That's fair, Doug, and you have always talked about currency neutral earnings growth which I think is fair as well to hold your people accountable to that. I guess I'm just wondering about the implied margin expansion that comes from, you know, growing to hit that long-term, 11to12% target off the 2000 base. We are looking at 14% earnings growth for the next to two years. Are you comfortable with that? 

 GARY FAYARD: Alex, Gary. When it comes to required accounting changes, and stock options would be one of those, where in fact it's a change where we've got an expense in this year 2002 and 2003. Not in the 2000 base that you're referring to, you would need to adjust the 2000 base. You need to get that out of the footnote in the financial statements. But at the same time, there are accounting changes such as goodwill, for example, amortization where we adjusted the other way for incentives and things and actually added income back to the prior year. So accounting changes we make it apples to apples. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: Right. 

 GARY FAYARD: Which leads us back to the long-term apples to apples growth rate in the 11 to 12% earnings per share range. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: Okay. Off of the apples to apples 2000 base or from here forward 

 GARY FAYARD: Both. 

 ALEX PATTERSON: All right. Wanted to be clear. Thanks a lot. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog from Salomon Smith Barney. 

 BONNIE HERZOG, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Good morning, everyone. I have a quick question about the health of your fountain business in North America. I was hoping somebody could talk ( inaudible ) I understand foot traffic has been down in restaurants and I'm curious how your business has been doing. 

 JEFF DUNN, NORTH AMERICA, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Bonnie this is Jeff. I'll take it. If you look at our full year fountain results we grew 3% for 2002. Which we believe relative to the industry and relative to our customers, traffic was very good performance. And the fountain now the food service as we make this change, we're refocusing that group on selling all packages to our food service customers can continue to grow ahead of the industry and ahead of our customers traffic. Now, what's the uncontrollable is our customer's traffic and there's a lot of softness out there. 

 BONNIE HERZOG: Right. 

 Jeff Dunn I think some of it is situational, but we have to read that through the course of the year. But we're working closely with our customers and continue to build the value of our business with them. Because one of the most profitable things they sell are beverages and it's very important as they go through some challenging times. I think it's going to come back, but right now especially in certain segments it's soft and we just got to work harder to get growth on top of their traffic. 

 BONNIE HERZOG: That's helpful. Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Operator we have time for one more call or one more question. 

 OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Christina Farkus of Merrill Lynch. 

 CHRISTINA FARKUS, MERRILL LYNCH: Jeff, you commented briefly on the water business. I'm wondering if you can talk about how the three-tier strategy is working out certainly from supermarket data we are seeing less sharp declines just on the pricing. Secondly, Sandy, perhaps you can comment we saw benefit from new product rollouts and both CSD and Isatonics (ph)as well as from acquisitions. Is there still room in 2003 for new territories to benefit from these product roll or is it really innovation that's going to drive that? Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Christina, on the three-tier strategy, I think it's early days yet, but we're seeing a positive response from our customers. Because they want to continue to build the value of the category and looking to manage multiple price points and multiple packaging configurations is the way to build the value of this. We're collaborating with the JB (inaudible)and with Evian to continue to work with our customers to continue to build it. So early days it's working. So Dasani is holding up. It's continued to have a 22% price premium to it's major competitors and it's continuing to grow very fast. So from that standpoint it's a good data point that it's working and continue to focus on that, because the fact of the matter is we believe there's a value added proposition here for our customers and they seem to be responding well. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Christina, on carbs for Europe, I already said that we had a very strong year in 2002, and as far as PowerAde for example goes, we have now rolled out PowerAde in almost all of western Europe, and we will be rolling out in eastern Europe this year. So there's still room to go for that. On other products like juice and NESTEA, I mean, we are still in our infancy as far as juice is concerned in Europe. We've taken the strategic position that in western Europe the brand is going to be Minute Maid and we have initiatives which were started in 2002 and we will see the benefit of these in 2003 and it is our intention to intensify our distribution and our investment behind the Minute Maid brand because we see that as a very strong property in Europe. The other area that I see lots of room for expansion is in our tea business with NESTEA. And we are currently rolling NESTEA out again in western Europe primarily and to follow in eastern Europe. And the last category would be water. We had some acquisition in water in 2002. In Switzerland and dorna, in Romania and we see there are still opportunity to expand into water more than a regional basis and also looking at the possibility of expanding Dasani into Europe and certain markets. 

 CHRISTINA FARKUS: Terrific. Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: If I can just quickly sum and say first of all, thank you very much for joining us morning. By any measure, the Coca-Cola Company is strong. We have the right strategy in place. We have a collaborative relationships with our bottlers. As we continue to strengthen the entire system. A broad portfolio of brands to satisfy all of our consumers beverage needs, and we have reasserted marketing innovation and marketing excellence on a worldwide basis. So thank you very much for joining us, and look forward to our further conversations. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's teleconference of the Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the company's Web site at Coca-Cola Company.com. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   AN
Document fndw000020030213dz2c000bc
  


 HD
 Q3  2002 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,754 words
   PD
16 October 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, at this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola, the conference is being recorded. 

 All participants will be able to listen only until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star "1" on your touchtone phone. If you are on a speakerphone, you may need to lift the telephone handset. 

   TD
 To withdraw your question press star "2." Participants will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors, and therefore questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. 

 Media participants should contact Coca-Cola's media relations department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Mr. Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations who will begin the conference. Mr. Mark, you may begin. 

 LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT VP AND DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, very much. Good morning, everybody. I appreciate you joining us this morning. I am pleased to be joined by Gary Fayard, our Chief Financial Officer and our senior operating officers. Today Gary and I are joined by Sandy Allen who is responsible for Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East, 

 Alex Cummings who heads up the Africa group, Jeff Dunn who heads up North America, Steve Heyer who is responsible for Latin America and Mary Minnick who heads up our Asia group. Our prepared comments will last approximately 25 minutes and then we will allocate time to your questions. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we ask you to please try to limit yourself to one question during your turn and if you have more questions, please return to the queue. 

 Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that this conference call does contain forward-looking statements including statements concerning long-term volume and earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the Company's most recent Form 10-K. And now I'd like to turn things over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD, CFO AND SR. VICE PRESIDENT, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning and we appreciate your interest in the Coca-Cola Company. 

 I'd like to start the call this morning just to say that we are managing this business for the long-term with very clear strategies. Those strategies include things such as improving overall system economics and bottler economics and I believe you will see from the results not only from the equity income that we reported this quarter but also the results of many of our public bottlers that that strategy is clearly working and clearly presenting a much stronger system globally. 

 Another of our strategies was to become a total nonalcoholic beverages business. And within that, in three years, the Coca-Cola Company has become the largest non-carbonated beverages company in the world. The next was that we needed, quite candidly, to fix the U.S. business. 

 I think our results this quarter show that with innovation, excitement, we have fixed the U.S. business and have, in fact, shown that cola fatigue is a myth, because, in fact, colas have grown very well during the quarter. 

 As we look around the world, we have improved our share position in substantially all markets globally, all of that in the face of significant economic headwinds. But to be clear, we have a strategic direction and we will continue to adhere to that strategy and are not changing course from it. 

 But stepping back, we do have to recognize that from a macroeconomic sense times are tough. Conditions are weaker than we expected at the start of the year and the recovery that we and others anticipated in the second half of this year has not materialized. 

 Growth in North America was very strong; however bad weather in key markets impacted our business in the third quarter, such that our worldwide results were below our internal expectations. Specifically, our earnings per share in the third quarter were in line with consensus of analyst expectations however our internal projections were higher than our results. 

 We delivered earnings per share of 48 cents in the third quarter when you exclude from equity income the one penny per share negative impact which resulted from nonrecurring charges by equity investees in Latin America. Earnings per share on a reported basis increased 9% in the quarter and if you were to adjust earnings per share in both years for one-time items you would see a 7% increase on the currency neutral basis in the third quarter and a 9% increase year-to-date. Importantly, operating income showed positive trends in the quarter, increasing 9% when both years are adjusted for one-time items and 10% on a currency neutral basis. Cash flow characteristics of our business remain very strong as net cash from operating activities was $3.4 billion in the first nine months of the year, and we expect cash flows to remain very strong. Reflecting the improving cash flow trends the Company has spent approximately $464 million to repurchase 9.3 million shares of common stock during the first nine months of the year, and we're still on track to repurchase approximately 750 million in the current year and expect this amount to accelerate in the coming year. Our carbonated brands have grown 2% on a year-to-date basis and our non-carbonated brands have grown 27%. Within these numbers there's some benefit from brands that we have acquired as part of our strategy to expand into new beverage categories that present strong growth and profit opportunities. As I mentioned in the last quarter our policy is to provide you with the size of any brand when they enter the Coca-Cola family so that you'll have a basis for understanding our strategic rationale for the acquisition. We will not individually report each of the brands on a quarter-over-quarter basis as our objective is to bring each brand into our system and then accelerate its growth. In the current quarter we received a little more than one point of growth from recent acquisitions or licensing agreements, namely Evian, the Dannon Waters, Seagram's Mixers and Risco in Mexico. We have a very diligent and deliberate process of evaluating brand opportunities. We will likely continue to make strategic acquisitions as a means to enhance our family of beverage brands and as we do so we will continue to make clear to you the size of the brands when they enter our system. As for our outlook, we expect that the economic environment will remain tough throughout the remainder of this year. I don't need to tell any of you that GDP growth rates are well below what we anticipated coming into the year. Worldwide GDP estimates for the fourth quarter have been revised downward by one full point from where they were at the beginning of the year. Because economic conditions are not expected to improve in the fourth quarter we may not recoup the earnings impact of factors beyond our control that affected our business in the third quarter. As a result we believe that there is a possibility that the Company's full year earnings may be 1 to 2 cents per share below the current consensus expectations of $1.78. We remain focused and committed to exceeding worldwide industry trends in all major beverage categories. I'd now like to turn things over to our operators, they will provide highlights on our performance in the third quarter as a means to illustrate what I've said earlier about our solid execution of our business strategies despite challenging conditions. Jeff? 

 JEFF DUNN, PRESIDENT AND COO, NORTH AMERICA, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Gary. I'm happy to report that our North American business had an outstanding quarter. On a reported basis our volume grew 9% benefiting from growth in both our carbonated and non-carbonated businesses as well as layering in our recently acquired or licensed brands such as Seagram's, Dannon Waters and Evian. Excluding these strategic acquisitions our underlying organic growth was 5%, driven by very strong performance in Bottle/Can of 7, Minute Maid Company growth of over 12 and Fountain growth of just 1%. Because of our solid performance our business continues to reflect share gains within total beverages across all measured channels. 

 Nielson data as of the end of September indicates that our share increased in total scanning channels by .9 points year-to-date, which is the largest increase in any company in the beverage category. Much of this success is being driven by trademark Coca-Cola. We've seen tremendous performance in trademark Coca-Cola due to innovation with growth over 4% in the third quarter for the total North America. but importantly, 6% in the bottle and can business. 

 Vanilla Coke has clearly exceeded our expectations and we're especially pleased with the 42% growth rates that our bottle and can business has experienced with Cherry Coke which was relaunched at the same time as Vanilla. Diet Coke with Lemon continues to be a strong incremental contributor bringing over 5 million new consumers into the Diet Coke franchise since its launch. We'll continue innovating within the diet franchise most notably with Diet Vanilla Coke which began hitting stores just yesterday. 

 In water, we continue to believe that sustained profits and value will be earned by those who build superior brands and provide great customer service. Retailers have just as much interest as we do in growing the profits and value of this category. Dasani continues to gain share within the category with volume growth year-to-date of over 40%. Again, September 28, year-to-date Nielson shows that Dasani is maintaining a price premium of approximately 16% above our primary competitor. We plan to maintain disciplined pricing especially as our line of water brands now includes Evian and Dannon Waters which help to best position us to maximize potential within this fast-growing segment for ourselves, our bottling partners and, importantly, our customer base. 

 Moving to juice and juice drinks we've seen solid growth across our entire juice portfolio. Minute Maid Lemonade continues to grow at strong double-digits even as it [lapsed] the prior year launch. I'm very excited about our accomplishments here. 

 We moved from 0 to 25 million unit cases in 2001 and we expect to be close to 80 million unit cases this year as Minute Maid Lemonade is joined by Pink Lemonade and Light Lemonade. We see much room for growth in this emerging category if you consider that household penetration is just 14% for these brands. If you look at our total juice business we continue to outpace all other competitors and industry trends year-to-date. Nielson supermarket information indicates we've gained 2.2 share points year-to-date through September. In sports drinks, regarding Powerade, we're encouraged by its continued strong double-digit performance, 13% growth year-to-date and we remain optimistic in our outlook for this category. 

 We are approaching sports drinks as a long-term play and as such have some additional innovation behind Powerade planned for 2003 which we believe will continue our momentum into next year. I'm sure you realize that this outstanding performance in bottle/can and Minute Maid has been offset somewhat by slower results in the fountain business. External traffic, restaurant traffic information, clearly shows a slowdown in the third quarter and this has reflected the fountain business given its relatively high share position. This is not what we expected given the results in the first half of the year and given the slowdown that occurred after 9/11 but it's understandable given the protracted sluggishness in the economy. Consumers are feeling the pinch and they're just not going to restaurants as much but we believe that's short-term in nature and is really related to the economy. 

 Looking forward we'll remain very focused on our customer service capabilities and bringing programs that allow us to grow faster than traffic which has been the historical norm. Our North American business continues to perform very solidly due to strong marketing activities, innovation and excellent execution by our bottling partners and as we look forward to 2003, we're supportive of bottler's efforts to get 2003 pricing initiatives in place in the fourth quarter, I believe C.C. talked about that in their conference call this morning, and we've got a strong fourth quarter lineup. So we look forward to continued performance in the fourth quarter. Now I'd like to hand over the discussion to Sandy Allan to talk about Europe. 

 SANDY ALLEN, PRESIDENT AND COO, EUROPE, EURASIA, MIDDLE EAST, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. Let me update you briefly in the performance of Europe, Eurasia, and the Middle East for the quarter three. As we budget ourselves in any given year, we estimate for average summer weather, but as you know the weather in Europe, especially in July and August, was very poor indeed. In addition floods dramatically interrupted sales and distribution in many markets; Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic to name just a few. 

 We ended up the quarter with a growth rate of 2% which given the poor summer combined with the adverse effects of the on going boycott in the Middle East of U.S. brands was a credible performance. What was encouraging and expected in light of reasonable weather was the month of September where volume grew strongly for the month across all key markets including Germany. The September result bodes well for quarter four and the full year results for the Europe SBU. In addition versus a year ago our CSB market share in our two key profit countries of Spain and Great Britain grew 3 points and 3.5 points respectively. Overall we have grown CSB share in almost all markets throughout Europe, both East and West. 

 As we head into the last three months of the year, we have a number of exciting marketing initiatives planned both on our core brands and new brands. First let me talk a little bit about the key activities on core brands. I spoke last quarter about the pending roll-out of Diet Coke/Coke Light with Lemon. This very profitable line extension launched to date in the U.K., France, Belgium and Austria has exceeded our expectations. In fact in Belgium, Coke light with Lemon has already reached 6.5 share points of the total CSD market. It's significant to note that we are seeing a positive halo effect across the entire Coke Light franchise indicating to us that our consumers are eager to see the Coca-Cola Company bring innovation and excitement to core brands. 

 We are accelerating this launch across the major markets through the balance of this year and early in 2003. On brand Coke our clear focus is on Christmas where we have always had enormous equity in Sun Bloom Santa. As in previous years we'll be activating this property through the line with consumer promotions advertising and experiential programs. For example in Germany as part of our Christmas Caravan efforts, decorated 18-wheeler Coke trucks will be visiting 230 towns across Germany, culminating with a the big event in Dresden, the city at the Elbe River that was worst hit by the summer floods. Learning from our experience on Diet Coke/Coke Light with Lemon, we are rapidly progressing with testing of another very profitable line extension, Vanilla Coke, with some very positive results already seen in France and Germany where a taste resonates well with teenagers. You'll be seeing this rolling out in certain markets over the first half of next year. 

 The performance and strong volume growth of Fanta continues. The recent launch of a Halloween flavor made from red oranges in Germany and a consumer promotion linked to it are looking very promising. We're having great success with this brand but as we look further match our flavor test profiles to different consumer age groups in different countries. Two recent launches are good examples of this. Pumello, a grapefruit in Belgium targeting adults and Twist, an intense kind of fruit punch taste in the U.K. 

 Now let me talk briefly about new beverages which are building on our solid CSD business in Europe. For 2002 we are driving almost 30% growth in our non-carbonated business. Many of our activities this year were in quarter two and quarter three such that you expect non-carbonated growth to accelerate in 2003. During quarter three, we had ten new product launches or significant brand relaunches across the top ten countries. We would expect a similar level of initiatives in the next few quarters. 

 We have the economic model, the organization, set of processes and linked information systems in place to deliver strong profitable volume growth. In the water category we continue to move forward towards our goal of becoming a major profitable water player in the European market. For example in quarter three we announced along with Hellenic bottling, the acquisition of the leading mineral water company in Switzerland, Valsa, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter. We also continued to push our relaunched Bonaqua in Russia with new packaging, new advertising and a new distribution focus which is expected to produce a growth of over 50% on this brand in 2002 and put us in position to be market leader by 2003. 

 At the end of quarter three we also relaunched our English mineral water brand, Marvel, and we are looking very closely at potentially launching the Dasani brand from the U.S. as a premium water brand in two or three major European countries. On Powerade, another very profitable new beverage for us, we are experiencing increasing momentum behind the roll-out. We'll be in more than ten major European markets by the end of this year and are tracking well ahead of budget. These are just a sample of the many activities we have planned for the remainder of the year and I am confident that we will deliver our contribution to the company. Thanks. And now I'd like to turn things over to Alex Cummings. 

 ALEX CUMMINGS, PRESIDENT, AFRICA GROUP, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Sandy. Our business in Africa remains healthy and continues to profitably grow. Volumes were up 7% on a year-to-date basis, with CSDs growing at 2% and non comp growing over 150%. The fundamentals of our business remain strong. However our performance in North and West Africa in the third quarter was impacted by the Middle East situation which continues to effect our performance in countries such as Morocco and Egypt. 

 Our business in these markets has been hurt by boycotting of American brands. This has had the most impact on our brand Coca-Cola and as a result we've placed emphasis on other brands such as Fanta, Sprite and Schweppes which are not as impacted by these actions. In addition we have moved into new products such as Central Powders and are aggressively expanding value priced single-serve returnable glass bottles for many of our CSD flavor-brands. Early signs are encouraging with growth returning in September. 

 We continue to have solid performance in South and East Africa led by our Central African region. Specifically in South Africa, our largest market, we continue to grow Coca-Cola, Sprite and Fanta year-to-date. However we did see slower growth in the third quarter as the high inflationary environment necessitated price increases to support the profitability of both our company and our bottling partners. 

 Across Africa, we continue to focus on core CSDs and specifically brand Coca-Cola, the engine of our business. We are also profitably broadening our range of beverage offerings in selected markets. As a result the outlook is positive with continued expansion of Coca-Cola affordable single-serve returnable glass bottles in South Africa and a strong new products pipeline, we will be entering three new products in South Africa and two in Kenya in the fourth quarter. 

 Africa continues to be a region where we do well by doing good. Given Africa's socio-economic development, our community activities positively impact the performance of our business. Together with our bottlers, Coca-Cola is a major contributor to many local economies. We take this responsibility seriously and will continue to invest in our people, our business and our communities for the long-term. And now I'd like to turn things over to Steve Heyer. 

 STEVE HEYER, PRESIDENT AND COO, LATIN AMERICA, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Alex. Our key messages in Latin America are really three. First, we're managing through very tough economic times flexibly as circumstances change. Second, our actions today reflect our objective to emerge from this situation with a business that's stronger than it was prior to the crisis. And third, in relative terms, we are stronger now than maybe we've ever been. We are performing well against our market adjusted definition of success. 

 In this climate, performance against key operating metrics like brand health and shared sales and bottler profitability are meaningful indicator of overall system strength and strong relative position and doing better on all fronts. The health of our brands continues to increase with trademark Coca-Cola showing positive growth in Latin America for the quarter. In Mexico, for example, favorite brand scores for brand Coke increased four points versus last year and frequency scores are 2 points higher than a year ago. 

 But maybe most important, our share is improving. In Mexico our carbonated soft drink volumes are growing three times as fast as the category. And in Argentina where the category had seen dramatic declines, our share of revenue in the most recent monthly data is at a record high and we're working very closely with our bottlers to maximize their profitability and protect our own operating income as best as we can through the crisis. We're doing this primarily by managing package and channel mix and by eliminating all non-mission critical costs from the system. Investments will continue as we see investment opportunity for the long-term in the region. 

 As the crisis hit, our local operators quickly revised plans and have been clearly focused on executing in the marketplace. We're moving quickly to play the hand that we're dealt and our management team in the region is really terrific. In Argentina, for example, when other companies have run from the crisis, we've remained committed to consumers and our system is extremely aligned behind the plan that's focused on affordability. As we mentioned refillable packaging has gone from less than 10% of our package mix to approximately 30%. It sounds like a simple step to shift to returnable packages but please recognize that this is more challenging than it sounds and it takes a little time. 

 The good news is that perhaps this system in Argentina is best equipped to do just that. By offering affordable packages, we make the entry price accessible so that Coca-Cola remains an important part of everyday life among our daily drinkers. Once again brand Coca-Cola has shown an improvement in brand health and significantly better performance in the third quarter, reporting a decline of only 4% versus a 14% decline year-to-date. For our total business in Argentina, we saw a volume decline of 14% in the third quarter which is an improvement when compared to earlier in the year. In Brazil, we've also had to revise our plans based on political and economic uncertainty. 

 In the last couple of months we've seen consumer spending contract. Increased prices of rice, sugar and beans and other consumer staples have really impacted the disposable income of consumers causing us to, once again, shift our focus to an affordability strategy. We were already offering returnable glass packages in selected channels. However, this package type is increasing in importance as P.E.T. and aluminum costs are rising. We are adjusting quickly to do this, recognizing the new reality. 

 In the quarter we continued to manage or product and package mix to increase profitability. Volumes increased 2% and on average for the country pricing was up over 8%. Our objective in Brazil throughout 2002 and into 2003 will be to improve profitability through a balance of volume and pricing. 

 Mexico continues to manage through a weakening economic environment because of its link to the U.S. economy. In Mexico we reported 5% growth driven by brand Coca-Cola, Ciel and Risco. Brand Coca-Cola continues to be a growth driver as daily consumption of Coca-Cola in Mexico is today five times higher than its nearest CSD competitor. In addition, we receive benefits from the inclusion of Risco volumes in September and this contributed a little more than 2 points to our growth in Mexico. The Risco transaction with Panamco is key to our strategy to have a nationally available brand in the water segment behind which we can execute national advertising and promotional programs. This move has significantly strengthened our position in the water category in Mexico by making the the Coca-Cola Company the market leader in the personal size water segment and the number two player in the overall water categories in Mexico. Our objective is to emphasize the profitable personal package sizes within this category. 

 We are also pleased with the continued strong performance of Ciel as we continue to experience share gains in a very fragmented category and with the opportunities that we now have to expand Ciel in partnership with Panamco. But before I wrap up, let me tackle a question that I've received often in the last couple of weeks that relates to what's really going on in Mexico. I think it's very important to understand that the business in Mexico is very different than the United States. 

 Approximately 75% of soft drink sales go through small format stores and on-premise outlets. This requires a large and very difficult, maybe even impossible, infrastructure to replicate and that gives the Coca-Cola Company a substantial advantage and it's an infrastructure that we've spent decades developing. Relationships with retailers are also critical and, again, we've spent decades developing these relationships by providing excellent service. 

 Of course we always take competition seriously and taken steps in the fourth quarter that will make our system stronger as new competitors enter the very attractive CSD market in Mexico. And so we're optimistic in our outlook for Mexico despite the economic challenges. 

 In summary, times are hard in many parts of Latin America but our system is performing well due to our focus on our strategic priorities. The position of the system in the marketplace is important because when these economies recover and grow and history shows that they will, we'll be in a position to capture tremendous value. Now let me turn the mike over to Mary. 

 MARY MINNICK, PRESIDENT AND COO, ASIA, COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Steve. The highlights for Asia are that solid volume growth of over 9% was recorded in Asia in the third quarter despite historic levels of flooding and bad weather in many markets including Korea, Japan, Indochina and Thailand and continuing economic softness, most notably in Japan. However several key markets performed strongly, most notably China and India, again demonstrating the benefits of the diversity of our Asian markets. 

 Japan volumes were flat in Q3 and year-to-date have recorded growth of 3%. Performance in the third quarter, however, can be broken down into two significantly different periods. July volumes in Japan were particularly soft as a result of a long and cool rainy season with two typhoons hitting Tokyo and the main urban centers, only the third time this has happened in 50 years. This particularly impacted our sales in the large and important vending channel. Compounding these difficulties was the decline in half-yearly bonus payments from Japanese employers, the first time bonuses have declined in decades. Performance, however, recovered in August and September with volume growth well above 5% for both months. Importantly for the full quarter we estimate we gained share and our business in Japan has now grown share consecutively for five quarters. 

 Share growth was solid for CSDs, coffee, teas, juices and sports drinks. Georgia coffee was again strong with growth well over 2% for the quarter even though it was cycling strong growth of over 4% from prior year. Georgia's growth was driven by the release of a special movie edition can to coincide with the national release of a premier movie which is based on our Georgia advertising campaign, stong sales of the European blend flavor, as well as package innovations including small P.E.T. and contour cans. 

 In the extremely competitive tea category we continued to perform well with growth well above 2% for the quarter cycling strong growth of 5% from previous year. 

 The diet segment is especially growing. In this segment our brand, which roughly translates into the English words "love body," has performed well becoming the diet tea brand in Japan. Importantly 75% of Love Body's volume is in the highly profitable 500ml pack and in vending machines. This brand is now turning as fast as Sokenbicha. 

 Looking forward we expect the shifts in brands, packages and channels as well as the difficult macroeconomic and deflationary situation in Japan to continue. We recognize that to address the impact that these conditions inevitably have on our system certainly requires change, and that is, of course, the purpose of our ongoing supply chain initiatives. These initiatives are fundamentally changing everything we do in Japan from procurement to manufacturing and they're modeled on our highly efficient, proven and effective approach to new products. In Japan we centralize procurement, manufacturing and forecasting for most new products and we have decades of leading-edge experience managing the logistic sides of new products. Therefore our new product process is actually a model for how we can continue to take costs out of the core brand side of our business. 

 In addition, we continue to demonstrate our ability to exceed industry growth levels and drive incremental profit and volume both through strong marketing programs on core brands like Georgia and through launches of profitable new products. So despite the challenges in Japan we remain very confident about this market. As I mentioned earlier, both India and China performed strongly recording double-digit growth in third quarter. Sales in China were up 13% on previous year and year-to-date volume has grown 15%. Our core CSD brands grew solidly behind a combination of successful summer campaigns. All core brands recorded share gains and now we have consistently outgrown the industry for the past 20 quarters in China. 

 Strong growth continues for our non-carbonated brands in China as well. [Koo,] our profitable juice entry in particular continues to be an outstanding success with media and distribution coverage expanded to 57 cities and all 21 bottlers in nine months. In less than a year [Koo] has captured over 12% of the juice market and we are confident of further volume and share gains as its geographic expansion continues. In India CSDs grew over 30% with strong growth across all brands, share gains of 2% and brand preference scores reaching an all-time high. 

 Our non-carb business in India continues to grow rapidly with Maaza juices, Sunfill powders and Kinley Water all making large share gains. After its launch only two years ago, in Q3 Kinley Water became the largest packaged water brand in India reaching a market share of 35%, up 15 percentage points versus a year ago. Our business in the Philippines maintained its solid momentum in third quarter with strong double-digit volume growth for both CSDs and non-carb businesses and as we have discussed with you previously, the restructuring of our bottler distribution and logistic system is proceeding according to plan. We now have put in place close to 90% of the targeted wholesaler partners covering 450,000 outlets. In closing, as I mentioned at the outset despite challenging times in Japan, our business in Asia continues to perform solidly. Now I'll turn things back over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Mary. Just a couple of other items that we wanted to cover before we opening it to your questions. First I'd like to point out a change in the timing of company's stock options to employees, we had expected to issue stock options for 2002 in October, we now expect those to be granted in December. So we are still planning for some expense in the current year related to these options; however, not quite as much as we had originally anticipated. The reason for the change relates to a broad review which is under way of all aspects of employee compensation programs. 

 Secondly on currency, since this is usually a topic of interest, we have not changed our outlook on currency. We still expect currency to negatively impact our earnings per share for 2002 in the range of 8-10 cents, most likely at the upper end of that range given recent weakness in Brazil. Year-to-date currency has had a negative impact of 6 cents, one penny of that in the third quarter but year-to-date 6 cents, so a much greater impact in the fourth quarter from currency because of the timing of our year end option contracts and Brazil. 

 As for currency impact in 2003, if the U.S. dollar stays at current levels and there are no major devaluations, we would expect exchange on next year to have a neutral to slightly negative impact on operating income and earnings per share which is significantly better than what we've experienced over the last seven years where we've seen 3-10 points of negative impact each year. 

 As for 2003 earnings, it is too early for us to make any specific statements because we are in the midst of the 2003 business planning process and we plan to update you later in the fall once the business plan is complete. With that I would like to open it up to any questions that you may have. Operator? 

 OPERATOR: At this time I would like to remind everyone that in order to ask a question, please press star then the number "1" on the telephone key pad. We'll pause a moment to compile the Q&A roster. Your first question comes from Andrew Conway of CSFB. 

 ANDREW CONWAY, CSFB: Gary, I know, as you mentioned, it's early to talk about 2003 but in the context of a continuing difficult global macro environment and in the context of your CSD business is globally growing perhaps around 2% and bottlers becoming more profitable, is it reasonable to think that management would widen the range of expectations for global volume for '03 closer to perhaps a 4 to 5 or 4 to 6 range. How do you triangulate your long-term views when we have a period of short-term macro effect. 

 GARY FAYARD: Andrew, thanks for the question. It's a very good question. I guess, to be candid, I'm going to dodge the question, however, only because truly we are in the midst in the process and premature to give guidance on it. Let me say that we are still committed to the long-term growth of this business and believe in the future. We do have significant economic headwinds obviously as we all know but continue to be committed for the long-term. We'll continue to manage the business for the long-term and as we go through the business planning process, as we complete that, we'll give you a full update on the expectations for next year later this fall. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: As a follow-up, is there any way that Sandy can talk a little bit about, beyond his comments on German brand strategy, of how the distribution and bottler structure and "go to market" strategy will assist the business in the coming year, please? 

 SANDY ALLEN: Andrew, on Germany specifically, through the management control agreement which happened in January of this year, what we've been doing in the implementation of that agreement is to start to restructure the business in Germany. 70% of our volume in Germany goes through what we call a national sales company, which has been run as a separate entity in the past. What we are doing at the moment is we are integrating that entity into CCAG which is the main bottler in Germany. And from that we expect to get some very substantial benefits not least of which is substantial cost savings. But more importantly it means that we will go to market in a far better way, I mean what we see is that the way we promote our products will improve, our merchandising of our products will improve, the way that we get efficiencies out of promotions will improve. So we see major opportunities to maximize the profitability of our German system particularly in 2003. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question is from Caroline Levy of UBS Warburg. 

 CAROLINE LEVY, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody. I'm trying to understand how you managed to achieve your third quarter estimates in the face of all the economic challenges that exist and yet will not or do not expect to achieve your fourth quarter and I'm wondering to what extent that has to do with the currency have 3 cents not 1 cent as a hit, or the seasonality, where Latin America is more important in the fourth quarter than in the summer months, but any guidance you could give on that, because I think that's what everybody is confused about. 

 GARY FAYARD: Okay, thanks, Carolyn, this is Gary. Let me give a shot at that one. First the following, if we step back and look at the full year first and let me address it that way first. Because as you know, we give guidance on full year but not, we do not give any quarterly guidance. And so what's happened as we went into the year and I think we clearly stated that our expectations were built off of improving macroeconomics in the second half of the year and obviously, that's not happened and, in fact they've gotten worse. But with that said, let me go through some of the things that have happened and I think it will give you some clarity of where we are. 

 The first thing that happened early in the year was Argentina and basically the entire economy melted down. Second thing that happened was Venezuela with economic and political issues. Brazil has not improved any and, in fact, is getting worse as we speak. With that said, Europe, as Sandy talked about our view and our plans would have been based on an average summer. Quite candidly, there was no summer in Europe this year with the weather and then all of the flooding in Central and Eastern Europe as and -- I think Coca-Cola Hellenic has referred to not being able to even get their route trucks out to deliver products during the flooding period. The next thing that happened was Japan was hit by three typhoons, the worst weather in Japan in 50 years. At the same time Korea was experiencing the same kinds of flooding. 

 With all of that said, basically as we step back and we look at it, our internal estimates were that the third quarter would have been actually much better than where your expectations were. And even with those things and the macroeconomic situation not improving, we think we'll going to come in pretty close to what the full year estimate was. But as I look forward, and now let me just focus in on the fourth quarter for a little bit, As I look forward the fourth quarter, currencies will be worse in the quarter. But if I just step quickly through the rest of the world Europe is going to be okay. Europe is having a good year absent what happened this summer. So Europe will be okay. Asia x Japan will be fine. Japan -- there's severe economic conditions in Japan. We've been doing very well gaining share but I think Japan will kind of go sideways on us a little bit. 

 If you look at the U.S., bottle/can, Minute Maid doing extremely well. Fountain is suffering from traffic, if you will, in restaurants. Latin America I've pretty well covered, however Mexico is doing just fine. Mexico is fine, it's kind of south of Mexico that we've got the issues. And Africa, the southern part of Africa is doing fine, Northern Africa is suffering somewhat from the boycott. 

 So I think if you take all of that together, we were actually expecting a much better third quarter than we had but overall full year with everything that happened, we believe that the strategy is right, we keep doing as we've done and we still believe that it was prudent to tell you where we think we are, but we keep executing strategy as we've done. 

 CAROLINE LEVY: Thank you, Gary. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Marc Greenberg of Deutsche Banc. 

 MARC GREENBERG, DEUTSCHE BANC: Hi, Gary. Just a follow on Caroline's question, with regards to the local impact in some of the weakness, I wonder if the operating heads might talk about what the Coca-Cola Company can do to ease the bottler impact specifically in Japan with CCHBC and, obviously, if we could spend a little time on Brazil. 

 MARY MINNICK: Yeah, let's start first with Japan. You know conditions are not worsening in Japan and this is not a new phenomenon. It's been going on for years now and that's why a while back we started working on the supply change initiatives with the bottling system. We are waist deep in an intense collaboration with them on how we reengineer the system. And I believe we will start to see the benefits of that in 2003, we will start. And those benefits will accelerate in 2004 and, of course, 2005. As I said that means a complete reengineering of everything from manufacturing to procurement and ultimately some of the sales and distribution side of our business. And our bottler partners are well aligned with us on that. It's just a question right now of continuing to roll it out. So, there is a light at the end of the tunnel of this kind of economic pressure and we'll get there. 

 SANDY ALLEN: Mark, I think, also on Hellenic, I think you should keep in mind that two years ago Hellenic went through a merger with Central Bottling. They now run the franchises in 26 countries throughout Europe. So they are going through a process of consolidation. But, having said that, if you look at their EBITDA results for this year, you'll see that there's been a major improvement compared to 2001. So they're on track to substantially improve the returns on investments, specifically returns on invested capital. I'd also like to say that if you take Italy, for example, we, the Coca-Cola Company, and Hellenic have a joint, what I call Marshall Plan, for Italy to regenerate that business. So we are in alignment with Hellenic. I think that their returns will improve dramatically, I'm very confident of that. Thanks. 

 STEVE HEYER: Mark, this is Steve, with respect to Brazil, first thing we are doing is we're focusing the portfolio. We are committed to a limited number of new product launches next year and a very heavy focus on CSDs and our core brands. The other thing we are doing is focusing on affordable packaging and creating a richer portfolio of packages to make it easier for us to catch incremental share but do it profitably for the bottler. We are also focusing whatever innovation we do in terms of new products on bottler compatible products so that their economics are further enhanced and we are studying shared services and other infrastructure adjustments and the goal there is to really free up money so we can keep the DME investment high so we can accelerate the affordable and returnable package structure that we discussed so that bottlers can really enjoy as much profitable growth as we can find. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Thank you. Gary, just a follow on that, with regards to the three markets discussed, impact on the Coca-Cola Company, do you anticipate that any of the major bottlers are going to need kind of a more direct support in the form of lower concentrate pricing or higher marketing support? Thank you. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks. No. I do not. As you look at all of the major bottlers around the world, you are seeing improving economics and improving returns on invested capital of substantially all the bottlers. So I think as part of our strategy we've been very deliberate in ensuring we've got the strongest system around the world. We are seeing results of that and would not anticipate any significant changes in funding levels. 

 MARC GREENBERG: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Canter of Prudential Securities. 

 JEFF CANTER, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Thanks for taking my call, good morning, everybody. Gary, on the second quarter conference call you helped bridge the year-over-year changes in operating income growth, currency neutral, good will, the incremental marketing structural changes, I was hopeful you could do the same again for this quarter. 

 GARY FAYARD: Sure, Jeff, I'd be happy to. In this quarter reported earnings per share were 47 cents. There was a penny of equity income charges from Latin America equity investees and a penny of currency impact versus 2001. So, 47 cents reported, 49 cents currency neutral ongoing. Third quarter of '01 reported earnings per share were 43 cents. then if you had adopted FAS142 on good will, retroactively that was 2 cents, about 2 cents a share, not quite 2 cents, but 2 cents a share. So, reported adjusted for 142 if you will, 45 cents. There was a 2 cent gain from Coca-Cola Enterprises and their accusation of the herb territories in Chicago and there was about 3 cents of incremental marketing. So EPS for third quarter of '01 on a currency neutral recurring basis, 46 cents. So reported, 47 versus 43, a 9% increase. Recurring currency neutral, 49 versus 46, about a 7% increase. 

 JEFF CANTER: Okay, fair enough. So just looking at the operating income line, the 17.8% improvement, operating income was negatively impacted by one point so currency neutral operating income growth year-over-year would have been up 19%. Then you take out -- I guess what I'm trying to find is what the internal operating income growth was excluding the marketing... 

 LARRY MARK: Jeff, this is Larry. The incremental marketing last year was a little less than $100 million. So if you back off just a little less than $100 million at the operating line you'd get about --adjust off for FAS142, you get about 9% on the operating and then currency was 1 if the operating is combined. 

 JEFF CANTER: Perfect. And then was there any structural change benefit on the operating income line as well? 

 GARY FAYARD: Slight positive. but not significant. 

 LARRY MARK: Some of that gets offset, Jeff, by increases in other expenses below the line which is minority interests. So we can talk about that later if you want. 

 JEFF CANTER: Fair enough. And you said that internal case sales would have been more than a point lower with all the water deals. I didn't hear you mention Cosmos, was that included in that number or was that excluded in that adjustment to get to an internal case sale number. 

 LARRY MARK: It was not in the number that Gary made reference to, Gary was talking about the recent acquisitions. When we talked about Cosmos at the beginning of the year, we talked about that as about 100 million cases when we acquired that on an annualized basis. 

 JEFF CANTER: Okay, I just wanted to make sure that I understood it correctly. All right, thank you very much. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Jeff. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Faucher from J.P. Morgan. 

 JOHN FAUCHER, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning, everyone, this question is for Steve. Steve, you talked a lot about trying to keep your brand in front of the consumers by using returnable packages and some other affordable packages there. Can you talk about the strategy you have in place for a transition when the economy has picked up in terms of how you get the consumers off of the sort of lower priced, lower profit packages and back to the more traditional packages that they've been doing and realizing it's kind of up in the air in terms of when that's going to happen. 

 STEVE HEYER: First of all these package adjustments are not necessarily lower profit. In many cases they are higher profit. What we're doing is managing the relative price to the number of ounces so that for people who are really economically stressed, they can still have a relationship with our brand in a manner that's affordable to them and attractive to us. With respect to what we're going to do in the future, I don't think we will ever pull out of this much more robust and rich package structure because I think we ought to be mindful of the fact that markets move and even in the terms of a recovery, I would like the product to be available to everybody on their terms. In certain markets b-brands are still an issue. And being able to bite the b-brands effectively with a broader array of packages profitably and grow our core business is a going forward attractive position for us. So frankly I think this economic climate has done nothing but accelerate the right strategy for us in the long-term in Latin America and what the infrastructure we are building, I wouldn't pull. The infrastructure we are building even as the market comes back, I would see as a go-forward substantial advantage to us as we connect with more consumers on terms that work for them. 

 JOHN FAUCHER: Okay. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Anna DeKappa of Bear Stearns. 

 CARLOS LABOY, BEAR STEARNS: Yes, good morning, this is Carlos Laboy. Gary, I was wondering if you could expand on how you're accounting for the purchase of water brands. The purchase of Risco Water in Mexico accounted for I think you said, two out of the five points of growth in Mexico in the third quarter. But Panamco indicates that the purchase agreement wasn't reached until October 7th and that the incidence payment is not really being attributed to Coke until '03. So are the volume comps unfair or are we misunderstanding the timing of the transaction? 

 GARY FAYARD: Carlos, thanks for the question. In fact, we reached agreement for a licensing agreement on the Risco brands in September and have included the volume in September but that's why I was trying to be very clear that Risco is included in the numbers and that's why we are clear on what the impact was on Mexico and included that in the worldwide volume as well. And there is some profit in the licensing agreement that's attributed to the Coca-Cola Company this year in the third and fourth quarter. So based on our accounting policies we had to include it but we wanted to be very transparent and make sure you knew it was in there and what it was contributing. 

 CARLOS LABOY: And on a related issue on Brazil you mentioned that you were moving to more affordable packages in Brazil, does this mean more returnables and do the bottlers have the fixed assets in place, the plants in place and the lines to move more aggressively to returnables? 

 STEVE HEYER: Yeah, it does mean more returnables and certain of the bottlers are ahead of the curve and certain are a little behind it and the system is committed and very excited about what they see as potential opportunity. The entire bottler population in Brazil sees the market the way we do. They're excited about investing into this, and they are, frankly, very optimistic and upbeat about what they think they can achieve and so are we, again, within the constraints of what the market will allow us to take. So it's a relative story, not an absolute story in the short run and will be an absolute story as the economy comes back. 

 CARLOS LABOY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your final question from Marc Cohen, Goldman Sachs. 

 MARC COHEN, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, guys. One of the big issues that people, I think, have on mind is how the whole venture into water as it ramps up ends up being a profitable endeavor for the Coca-Cola Company and the bottlers. You may have to deal with this regionally but can you give us a vision of how you see the penetration of the water business on really an international basis developing and what it's implications are in terms of both margins and returns on capital for both levels of the system. 

 JEFF DUNN: Hey, Mark, this is Jeff. Let me take it from a U.S. standpoint and then the other folks can talk about outside the U.S. But in the U.S., I think there's two levels to the discussion. One is system profitability and the second is the profitability of Coca-Cola, the Company. From the system standpoint clearly water is going to be a very important incremental contributor to growth and profitability. We've ramped up our strategy in order to help there. That's not only going to make the system stronger but it's also going to allow us to reinvest back in growth across the whole portfolio because it's clear that water will be the fastest growing category. For the Coca-Cola Company, we've now got a portfolio of brands and source and distilled waters so that we can meet the needs of consumers, innovate and, we think, the way to profitability is to accelerate volume but bring more value added to the category in terms of packages, brands and value-added elements to the water. And if we do that, we think we can grow profitability in line with the growth of volume. Dasani's profitable today and we believe we can continue to grow that and protect it through deploying the portfolio we've acquired through the Evian and Danone acquisitions. So that's our perspective for the the U.S. 

 SANDY ALLEN: Mark, on Europe, I think I commented about this on the last conference call, the biggest beverage category in Europe, in packaged goods is water, but it's a very fragmented market. In Europe there's probably upwards of 600 different brand names. So it's a very regional business. But within that you can divide it into three segments what I call a high premium water category packaged and we have entered that with our acquisition of Valsa in Switzerland. In fact, the returns on Valsa for the system are superior to carbonated soft drinks. And we will progress in Europe by looking for strategic acquisitions on a regional basis and we believe they will be highly profitable. Then you come on to the medium category which is, it's a category which is very regulated because all water in Europe essentially comes from a source. But there are ways in which we can use a source water but then brand it, that's why I said earlier that we are looking to launch Dasani in two or three markets in Europe. And what we would do is take a source water, which allows us to comply with regulations, and then add minerals so you get a balanced water and we believe that that will have a great market potential in Europe and will be highly profitable. Then you have the other water which is the lower margin. When I say lower margins, these are probably about 50 to 60% of the margin of CSD's and the issue there is a volume issue because we believe that water is the fastest growing category in Europe, and although you may make less per case on these lower margin waters, the real issue is what you multiply that margin by so that we believe in absolute terms that these lower margin waters will in fact be significantly profitable for us. 

 MARY MINNICK: Yeah, just to elaborate on that, there are three things that effect the profitability of water in most markets. Number one is price. And as Sandy and Jeff have mentioned, in many markets, even Asia, we have three pricing tiers for our waters, Philippines, China, Australia, three water brands. premium, medium and value. The second factor is cost. And as you gain economies of scale and efficiencies, you increase capacity utilization and you go to creative levels like light weighting of P.E.T. which can have significant cost savings of up to 20 to 30%. So you start to take costs out. That's the second factor. The third is what you spend in DME. In the last few years we've been launching a lot of these brands. Now we've moved from launch DME levels to maintenance DME levels. That dramatically effects profitability. And as time goes on, like I say, you don't have launch levels of DME. So you combine those three things together and the water business starts to look improved from a margin and profit standpoint. 

 STEVE HEYER: As far as Latin America is concerned, pretty much what you heard holds true. Except for us it's less about tiers and more about differences in pack size. The pack size play for us is really around a core strategy that's focused on single-serve packages that go through very highly profitable channels. That's our primary focus. 

 Secondarily there's a bulk business which works for the bottlers. And so from a system strength point of view it's a good thing, but from, frankly, a Coca-Cola Company point of view, there's marginal return associated with that. The third element is that as we build national brands, and our Risco transaction gives us the opportunity to do that, we get all kinds of leverage in the trade and all kinds against advertising expenses which allow us to take operating costs down as we grow volume. So it's a profitable strategy for the system and it's a profitable strategy for us by virtue of the way we do our consolidations around core brands and the way we focus service to the retailer and emphasis single-serve. 

 GARY FAYARD: Go ahead, Mark. 

 MARC COHEN: Gary, I'm just wondering if you can roll that up on an international basis for us and give us a sense of today is this move into water more or less profitable for you than your base business and do you envision coming up to that kind of level of profitability over time and how does that play out? 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Mark. Here's how I would answer that question. As we've moved into the non-carbonated beverage segment, so it's more than just water, but it's all of the other brands that we're focused on. And as we become the largest player in the non-carbonated arena, our goal and objective is that the margin characteristics as, on whole, of all of the non-carbonated brands should equal to about what carbonated beverages are yielding and with the kind of foot print that we have then and with the entire beverage portfolio and the strength with retail trade and the improvement in overall system economics as we get that margin characteristic to a CSD level on average, and that's on average because some will be below but some, as Sandy said, are higher, we think it's a very profitable model on which to continue to grow the business. 

 MARC COHEN: Okay, thanks. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thank you, and I want to thank each of you for joining us today and we will look forward to continuing the dialogue with you in the future. Thank you, very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference. You may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
africaz : Africa | asiaz : Asia | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021017dyag00060
  


 HD
 Q2  2002 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,423 words
   PD
17 July 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to The Coca-Cola Company conference call. At the request of Coca-Cola , the conference is being recorded. All participants will be able to listen only until the formal question and answer portion of the call. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star 1 on your touch tone phone. If you are on a speaker phone, you may need to lift the telephone hand set. To withdraw your question, press two. Participants are will be announced by their name and company in the order they are received. I would like to remind everyone that the purpose of this conference call is to talk with investors and therefor questions from the media will not be addressed in this forum. Media participants should contact Coca Cola's media relations department if they have additional questions. I would now like to introduce Mr. 

   TD
  Larry Mark, Assistant Vice President and Director of Investor Relations, who will begin the conference. Mr. Mark, you may begin. 

 LARRY MARK, ASSISTANT V.P. OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining us today. This morning I am pleased to be joined by Gary Fayard, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and well as our Senior Operating Officer. Today Gary and I are joined by Sandy Allan, who is our Executive Vice President and President, Chief Operating Officer for Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East. Alex Cummings, who heads up our Africa group. Jeff Dunn who heads up North America. Steve Heyer, who's President and Chief Operating Officer of Coca Cola Ventures and is also responsible for Latin America. Mary Minnick who is responsible for the Asia Group. 

 Our prepared comments will last about 30 minutes this morning and then we will allocate time to all your questions. So that we could get to as many questions as possible, we would ask that you please limit yourself to one question during the turn. If you have more than one question, please return to the queue. Before we get started, I'd like to remind everybody that this conference call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term volume and earnings objectives and it should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements contained in our earnings release and in exhibit 99.1 of the Company's most recent form 10-K. Now I'd like to turn things over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD, CFO, SR. V.P., THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Larry. And thanks to each of you for participating in our call this morning, we appreciate your interest in The Coca-Cola Company. Our confidence in our execution of our business strategies is increasing. Consumers continue to increase their consumption of commercial beverages throughout the world. We believe that The Coca-Cola Company as the leader in the ready to drink, non-alcoholic beverage industry, is best positioned to capture this growth. 

 The share gains that we have experienced in many of our major markets including the United States, Mexico, Brazil and Japan illustrate our capabilities. The results we announced this morning reflect our focus on our six strategic priorities. Our year to date earnings per share growth, free cash flow generation and volume results demonstrate solid performance across the Coca Cola system. In a moment you'll hear numerous examples from our senior operators of how we are doing this. 

 In addition, I want each of you to know that The Coca-Cola Company strives to be a leader and assess the quality standards in all key areas including corporate governance and financial reporting. We have very stringent corporate governance practices and we take a conservative and straight forward approach in recording our financial results. Therefore, earlier this week we announced that we have chosen to change our method of accounting for stock options. Our management and Board of Directors agree that stock options are a form of employee compensation expense, and therefore it is appropriate for these stocks to be reflected in our financial results. We expect the impact of this change in accounting methodology to have a minimal financial impact on the current year results. 

 In a few minutes, I'll spend some more time with you discussing our financial results and walking you through the new method of stock option accounting. But first allow me to pass the microphone to Jeff Dunn to discuss our strategic approach in North America. Jeff? 

 JEFF DUN, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Gary. It's my pleasure to be here this morning representing our three North American operating units and to be reporting total North American volume growth of over 4% on a year to date basis. We said in the past that our long-term objective for North America is 3% plus volume growth, thus we are pleased with the year to date results, driven from the efforts of all our people and those of our bottling partners. Our growth in the quarter is comprised of solid 3% growth from both bottle can operations and our fountain business and double digit growth by Minute Maid North America. On a year to date basis, both our bottle can and fountain business' are up 4% in North America. Our priorities continue to be core and flavored CSD's, water, juice and juice drinks and sports drinks. 

 All channel data measured and nonmeasured indicates we continue to post show share gains across all of these four major categories. We said coming into 2002, we remain confident in our Coca-Cola business. We are convinced that marketing innovation derives growth in CSD. Our persistence is paying off with Coca-Cola. It's up 2% in the quarter and over 2% on a year to date basis, led by a strong start for Vanilla Coke and continued strength in Diet Coke and Diet Coke with lemon. You isolate the month of June when Vanilla Coke was really hitting the market, total Coca-Cola volume was up over 4% for the month. As you'll hear from Coca Cola Enterprises a little later this morning, our strategy of offering Vanilla Coke in immediate consumption package for one month prior to its general distribution paid positive dividends from both volume and profit perspective. 

 The next step is to widen distribution of Vanilla Coke through future consumption channels and you'll also begin to see Vanilla Frozen Coke in selected fountain outlets. In addition to our strong performance with Coca Cola, our growth in flavored CSD's continues. Historically we've been under-developed in flavors, but Fanta and Minute Maid are changing this. Combined, they're up over 3% on a year to date basis and getting stronger as the reposition Minute Maid sodas with real juice hits the market. Sprite continues to be soft. Some exciting new brand work is nearing completion. Sprite continues to rank as a favorite brand among urban use now we're looking to grow frequency within this base while adding new consumers. The next key and priority is water. This category continues to grow strongly, but volume for volume sake is not our strategy. Since Dasani was first introduced in 1999, we've implemented a pricing and packaging strategy to drive profitable growth. Our goal for Dasani is to maintain price points, which bring real value to the category for the customers. 

 We believe that by focusing on marketing innovation and superior customer service, made possible through DSD, we'll continue succeeding in growing this Dasani brand profitable. There's been a great deal of attention on the pricing dynamics in the water category understandably so. Given the fact that the brand which currently holds the number one share position has lowered their average price point in super markets by 13% year to date. I'd like to state clearly price is not our strategy for Dasani. Our aim is to build a brand that creates value for all participants. We are doing just that with Dasani, in the most recent Neilsen period, outpacing industry and all other competitors in retail dollar sales growth. 

 With the completion of the recently announced agreements with Evian, and [INAUDIBLE] brand, we now have a comprehensive water strategy that provides great flexibility to better capture the total water opportunity in North America. Our next priority is juice and juice drinks. Where we are very proud of the results. Minute Maid lemonade and fruit punch which were extremely successful brand launches in 2001. have now been joined by Pink Lemonade and Minute Maid Light. During the past year, we gained nearly 7 share points in the single-serve juice drink category. We recently added Minute Maid Light Lemonade to our fountain lineup and you should begin to see this in casual dining restaurants, starting in the third quarter. Not only has Minute Maid helped our system create these outstanding refreshment brands, which are driving growth to our bottler network, but also growing their own direct warehouse broker and shell DSD businesses at double digit rates. 

 Simply Orange is growing so fast, we just announced we'll be adding more capacity. It continues to hold a share position in the Northeast, which when combined with Minute Maid premium share, gives us an overall juice share which is 3 points higher than our share position prior to Simply Orange's introduction, in May of 2001. Although there's been slight [INAUDIBLE], we believe by broadening our consumer offering, we are in a much better position to capture changes in consumer trends and to expand value in this category for our customers. In addition, our Disney brands are growing in spite of intense competition within this category. New advertising that communicates the benefit of 25% less sugar of these brands to moms has just begun and we believe will expand trial. Our innovative use of the Disney characters on our packaging combined with the reduced sugar content, makes this a unique offering in the category. 

 When you look at our total juice and juice drink business, we continue to outpace industry trends. Neilson's six-month supermarket data indicates that the total juice and juice drink category is down almost 2%. However, Minute Maid brands grew volume over 11% posting a share grain of almost 2 full points. During the 2nd quarter, volume growth for Minute Maid brands in the supermarket channel was up 17%. Delivering substantial growth despite relatively weak category are very well-positioned as we go go forward. 

 Moving on to the next priority, Powerade, which continues to post share gains. In the [INAUDIBLE] channel where consumers have the most choice, and are not as easily influenced by aggressive trade spending, we saw a share swing of 2 points in the most recent quarter. In supermarkets where trade spending by our competitor has been most apparent, Powerade continues to achieve a balance between volume and profit. Based on standard data, we posted year to date growth of 20% with a 4% price increase. While Gatorade growth of 21% is driven with pricing down 5%. Our strategy on Powerade has been clear from the beginning. Early in '01, we adjusted the price points and in mid '01 we repositioned the brand and since then have been focussed on building the brand through some truly creative marketing efforts, which are paying off. 

 Let me talk about the next six months. We'll continue to emphasize Coca-Cola through executing a strong summer program around music cash and the continued roll-out of Vanilla Coke. Moving into the fall, we'll be executing local and customer specific back to school and football programs for our CSD business', that will be followed by strong programming behind "Harry Potter Two" and the the traditionally strong holiday focus. We'll also be intently focused on the integration of the new water brands into our system and to continue to build out our water strategy. We are optimistic about continuing to deliver on our long-term objectives as we look to the rest of 2002. Now I'd like to turn it over to Sandy Allan to talk about Europe. 

 SANDY ALLAN, EXECUTIVE V.P., PRESIDENT AND COO OF EUROPE, EURASIA AND THE MIDDLE EAST, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff and good morning. [INAUDIBLE] the business in Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East grew year to date in volume terms by 6%. Of that 6% growth, 5 points were attributable to carbonated soft drink growth, and one point to non-carb's. A strong first quarter of 8%, kick-started the year and set us up well to weather a few storms in the second quarter. Notably, cool weather across northern Europe in April and in June. Also you will recall that Easter this year occurred in the first quarter and was a benefit to our results and would naturally impact the second. Taking all of the above into account, our total business in the second quarter grew in volume terms by a solid 3% plus, giving 6% year to date as I said. 

 What is also encouraging is that our solid business performance for the first half was spread across the whole of the region with good performance in Great Britain, Spain, Germany, Turkey and Russia. 

 Let me say something specifically about Germany. Their volume grew by 5% in the first half with brand Coke up 3%. The management control agreement the Company has had in place with CCEAG which accounts for close to 70% of the volume since the beginning of the year is starting to have a positive effect on the business. We are stabilizing our business in Germany. We continue to drive forward to restructure all aspects of the business, from pricing to packaging and many others. There remains much to do, but the signs are encouraging. 

 On marketing, let me talk about core and new brands. More in terms of the last quarter and the coming six months. Firstly core brands which grew plus 2% in the second quarter. Our brand, Coke Activation, at the soccer World Cup, the biggest sporting event in the world in June, was very successful. Our marketing platform for this global property included strong local advertising, packaging, promotions and customer activities. Of particular note were the ads produced in Turkey, Spain and Great Britain, all of which had significant impact with our consumers and the press. With the Turkish ad winning a prestigious [INAUDIBLE] award. In virtually all markets we activated the event with collectable can multipacks, prizes to attend the games or win interactive limited addition computer games or in some cases, coveted footballs from the event itself. 

 The very recent launch of Diet Coke with lemon in Great Britain has been very successful with strong acceptance in the trade and positive initial product [INAUDIBLE]. We feel confident that we will see the same success in the upcoming roll-outs in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Austria. Fanta has been a strong performer as we continue the momentum with a new proprietary bottle rolling out in Great Britain. New flavors based on local preferences and new key oriented local advertising. 

 Looking forward to the next six months, on brand Coke, we have summer programs keyed into the teen passion for music followed by a major Christmas initiative. On Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, we are rolling out with successful lemon variant, as I've said, and we continue to evolve the silver concept with a new silver bottle label's eye-catching [INAUDIBLE] and the restaurant point of sale and integrated consumer promotions. On Fanta, we expect to continue the strong positive momentum we have seen in the first half summer programs such as the seasonal flavors in Spain. 

 Now let me talk about new beverages which are increasingly complimenting our CSD's in meaningful ways. During the second quarter, we had 17 new product launches or significant non-carbonated brand relaunches across the ten countries. We would expect the same level of activity in the third and fourth quarters. We have an organization, set of processes, linked information system and marketing resources to deliver this. In water, we will be in the water business in a significant way and in every major European country by the end of the year, with the potential exception of Italy. 

 For example, in Germany, we relaunched Bonaqua in the second quarter and saw positive results in June. We are also in the midst of launching of Bonaqua in Spain and are looking for volume results as we go forward. We've also relaunched Bonaqua in Russia with new packaging, new communications and a new distribution focus and we continue to drive [INAUDIBLE] in Turkey. We have also very recently acquired a major premium water called Valsar (ph), in Switzerland. 

 On juice, we are also continuing to accelerate the launch of our global Disney juice drink proposition. We launched Mickey Adventures juice drinks in France and in the Netherlands in the second quarter, and are in the midst of a launch of Winnie the Pooh juice in Great Britain. We expect to be in at least five other markets in Western Europe, with these propositions, by the end of the year. 

 We are also experiencing strong momentum behind the Powerade roll out across Europe, to the point that we are struggling to meet demand. The trade loves this new brand. It has been voted by the German and Irish trade as the most successful new beverage product, and in Sweden, we have achieved share leadership in just seven months. This is a brand we are really excited about and we are looking forward to further strong growth in the foreseeable future. On teas which we see as an increasing growth opportunity in Europe, we have relaunched our Nestea brand in the second quarter, with new packaging and advertising in major countries including France, Spain and Italy. At the same time we are examining new ready to drink tea and coffee propositions which will meet consumer's needs, and we will aggressively pursue these. So that's where we are with the European business. Solid first half and on track for the remainder of the year. I now would like to turn things over to Alexander Cummings. 

 ALEXANDER CUMMINGS, JR., AFRICA GROUP, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thanks Sandy. Our business in Africa continues to positively grow. [INAUDIBLE] volumes were up 9% on a year to date basis with CSD's, the primary driver of our growth, up 5% on a year to date basis. Our south and east Africa division continues to perform well, growing at 16% year to date. This performance is led by [INAUDIBLE] Zimbabwe and South Africa. In South Africa, which as you know is our largest market, [INAUDIBLE] per capita [INAUDIBLE] is 183. Volumes have grown over 6% year to date, driven by both carbonated brands such as Coca-Cola and Fanta, and non-carbonated beverages such as [INAUDIBLE] fruit drinks for kids, and the recently introduced Nestea. 

 In the north and west Africa division, Nigeria continues to perform well, driven by CSD's and water. Given low per capita incomes in Africa, our system continues to focus on affordability through price and package strategies and improving system efficiencies. This translates into our actions around introduction and expansion of multiserve value packs such as the [INAUDIBLE] glass package in markets like Nigeria and Guinea. As well as an affordable single serve entry level package, such as [INAUDIBLE] package in [INAUDIBLE] Morocco and Egypt. Returnable packages are typically the lowest cost to produce, and therefore the most affordable. 

 In addition, we are finding ways to introduce not ready to drink beverages such as cordials. In order to bring new consumers into commercial beverages and to generate incremental operating income. It is important to point out that there are many consumers in Africa who do not participate in the commercial beverage industry. By offering not ready to drink beverages, we are able to present affordable alternatives to these consumers. 

 With the expectation that as economies continue to develop, consumers will migrate to the wide range of ready to drink beverages offered by The Coca-Cola Company. As we continue to leverage and stressing our already very strong system, we will continue to profitably grow our business in Africa. I'd now like to turn things over to Steve. 

 STEVEN HEYER, COO, LATIN AMERICA, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Alex. Good morning, everybody. As you saw in the numbers this morning, we are in the midst of some real economic challenges in Latin America. So I'd like to start with a few over-arching points about our system's performance in Latin America and how we are approaching the business to provide some context and maybe even a glimpse into how we're managing through things. 

 First, the economy is very tough, so therefor we're committed to actions which will allow us to come out of this economic downturn stronger. Let me give you examples of some things that give me confidence. First, our franchises in Latin America are strong. Second our market share is growing and we remain focused on our core brands. We are managing our pricing, our packaging and our channel mix very aggressively and we're focused on affordability. We are working hand in glove with our bottlers. We have very crisp accountability between us, and that eliminates any duplication and this continues to be inspected. We are also working diligently to reduce all costs that we deem to be nonessential. It's difficult to be upbeat in the short-term, but in such a challenging environment, we think we've got some opportunity and that we are doing the right things. We've shifted our marketing spending to support returnable glass and refillable PET. 

 When economics are tough, affordability is key. Our pricing and packaging actions reflect this reality so in addition, we're executing the Company strategy for profitably expanding our brand offererings but we are doing it with a focus on affordability rather than through premium-priced products. This has been our approach throughout all of Latin America and especially in one of the most challenging areas: Argentina. Our volumes have declined 22% on a year to date basis. But even with these declines, we are increasing share. 

 We continue to connect with consumers through our marketing and in particular our World Cup activities and through communication relative to family values. One of our recent ads, [INAUDIBLE] was recognized with an award at Caan and more importantly, we believe it is receiving very positive response from consumers in Argentina. Tactically, we are focused on providing affordable packages. In 2000, to give you an example, refillables represented between 5-10% of our package mix. Now refillables are over 30%. We expect our mix to go to 50% refillables as is currently the case in areas in the north and in the countryside. 

 We've even brought refillable packages to Buenos Aires which was previously considered to [INAUDIBLE] and area to warrant this kind of package. In May we launched a 1.25 meter returnable glass bottle which is already become 9% of the product mix and this we think is an indication that we are giving consumers what they want. Plus our system has the capability to shift quickly to refillable packages, our brands are now more affordable and certainly more available than other brands which only offer consumers one way PET packages and have become much more expensive to produce as import costs have increased. We're now moving our efforts behind returnable packages for our other core brands, Fanta and Sprite. 

 Our outlook for Argentina is the same given the economic situation. The steps we are taking is designed to impact current results and position us favorably for the time when economic strength returns to Argentina. Based on our most recent Neilson ratings for June, we've gained almost 3 share points year to date within CSD's. Brand preference for Coca-Cola is up from 50% in January to 54%. These are the data points that we are focused on. 

 Moving on to Brazil, there's also political uncertainty giving the upcoming elections, but fortunately, many consumers are not directly influenced by the political news and they're still excited about winning the World Cup. On a consumer standpoint, we haven't seen any indication of real pessimism. The Coca-Cola system is continuing to execute its strategy to recovering bottling margins that were lost during recent periods of devaluation and in 2002 we are managing our product and package mix to increase our profitability. I'm pleased to report that in the second quarter, Brazil volume is up well over 4% with positive pricing gains, which you'll hear more about when some of our public bottlers report their quarterly results. This balance results in an optimum profitability for our system. Throughout 2002, it's our objective to maintain this balance of volume and price in Brazil. 

 Our World Cup activities became particularly meaningful to our consumers not only for the quality of the marketing, but interestingly our jingle turned into the almost the official song of the 2002 World Cup for Brazilians, and also didn't hurt that Brazil won it. This strength in the meaningfulness of the event returned the value of our sponsorship. Coca-Cola performed very well during the quarter. [INAUDIBLE] continues to be an area of focus and is delivering 13% growth year to date. Fanta is growing at 19% behind the introduction of two new flavors coupled with new package design. [INAUDIBLE] Nestea and [INAUDIBLE], our new product launches, are also performing well. 

 Mexico is the only economy in Latin America which is still showing some strength and management in Mexico understands that it is covering the rest of Latin America as best it can without stripping away what it needs to do to compete going forward. Mexico is the Company's largest market in terms of per capita consumption and it continues to be the star performer of the group, growing at 5% in the quarter and on a year to date basis. Coca-Cola continues to be the driver of that growth contributing more incremental unit cases both in the quarter and year to date than any other brand in Mexico. Share of sales data indicates that brand Coca-Cola has gained 1.7 points on a year to date basis. 

 Also in Mexico, our fastest growing water brand was a large contributor to growth as volume and personal sized packages grew at 34% reflecting the packaging innovation such as the new 1 liter sports cap bottle. Powerade which was only introduced in Mexico late last year, was also a driver of growth during the quarter. In summery, times are hard in many parts of Latin America, but our system is performing well, due to our focus on our strategic priorities. And we are confident that we will come out the other side of this crisis stronger. When you can't manage the business for volume and profits, you manage for share and brand strength. This is how in the short-term we are defining success. Now I'd like to turn things over to Mary Minnick. 

 MARY MINNICK, ASIA GROUP, THE COCA COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Steve. The headline for Asia is healthy, balanced growth across our portfolio of markets. In the second quarter we recorded very strong growth of 14%. Cycling growth of 11% last year, and in all our markets, our local operators are playing their strategic role to deliver on volume, revenue and operating income growth for the group and for the Company. 

 In Japan we continue to see gains in share sales, delivering second quarter volume growth of 3% while cycling a strong 7% growth from prior year. On a year to date basis Japan has grown volume over 4%. We successfully leveraged our sponsorship of the World Cup in Japan's role as co-host, to draw Coca-Cola growth of 6% in June. We were overwhelmed by the response to an innovative, onpac promotion where 23 million figurines of famous soccer athletes sold out in only three days. Aquarius was also activated through the world cup, and grew 15% in June and over 7% for the quarter. 

 Solid Georgia Coffee sales continued in Japan, with new flavors and small PET packages, continue to bring new consumers, particularly women into the Georgia franchise. And as the tomorrow is another day campaign continues to be successful. Our tea business in Japan continues to perform solidly in line with industry growth. Overall we are now well positioned in this intensely competitive category with strong brand offerings in all tea segments. 

 Over 30 new brands have been launched since the beginning of the year, but most of these new brands are disappearing rapidly as consumers revert back to traditional teas. This is good news for Coca-Cola because we are strongly positioned in traditional teas with [INAUDIBLE]. The green tea category continues to grow as well especially in super markets, and our brand Marocha is holding steady in this competitive category. Love Body, launched in April is doing well and we are confident its growth will accelerate as we expand this brand into more package offerings. Cool also continued to perform well in Japan as the new summer flavor, passion fruit combined with Disney Pooh honey lemon, resulted in very strong sales growth over 40% in the second quarter and share of sales gains of over 8%. 

 The introduction of resealable bottle cans through the vending channel, was strongly embraced by the consumer and we are confident this will further accelerate favorable trends in this important channel. In China, we achieved unit case volume of 18% in the quarter and over 15% year to date with both our core CSD and non-carb brands performing strongly. The cola brands of Coca Cola, Sprite and Fanta collectively grew 9% in the quarter, and AC Neilsen information shows that we have consistently outgrown the industry for the past 18 months, reaching a record high share of CSD market in China of over 50%. 

 These positive results were due to our successful World Cup Activation which allowed consumers to have a once-in-a-lifetime experience of attending a World Cup match in Korea and 2.7 million consumers to win prizes. Strong momentum on non-carb brands continued in the second quarter in China, with Ku (ph) continuing to be a runaway success, not only in China but also Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. We have made solid progress in developing our water business in China, growing share of sales in this competitive segment using a combination of national and local branded waters sold at multiple price points. Our business in the Philippines experienced a healthy acceleration of growth in Q2, with volume growing strong double digits driven mainly by the Cosmos brands, but also by improving trends in our core business. 

 As I mentioned in our last conference call, together with Sam McGel, we are in the process of implementing a number of programs to build overall system capabilities. The most important initiative under this umbrella, the restructuring of the bottler distribution and logistics systems in order to expand the number of outlets served and take costs out of the system, is proceeding according to plan. So far we've converted over half of the targeted wholesale partners covering more than 300,000 outlets to the new structure, and we're confident that the major part of the disruptions that effected our volume in the first quarter, now are behind us. However, the rebuild of the route to market system will continue for the remainder of the year. 

 In India we are aggressively pursuing our business strategies resulting in excellent growth across all categories. CSD's which account for the majority of our volume in India, grew 25% for the quarter, and we continue to outpace the competition. These strong results were driven by an aggressive expansion of the 200 ML single serve affordable packs which have reignited the market, particularly in rural areas where 70% of the population lives, and a successful cold drink means Coke, or as we call it Tanda (ph) campaign, that has increased purchase intent among teens. Our non-carb business continues to grow dramatically as well and we're rapidly building Kinley into the number one water brand in India, with market share now over 30%. In fact, in three of the six regions where it is available, Kinley is already the number one brand. 

 Quickly wrapping up with other activities within the group, we successfully launched Diet Coke with lemon in Australia, driving incredibly strong growth in our Diet Coke brand in June. In Indonesia, we completed a successful launch of Frestea, our new ready to drink Jasmine flavored tea. Frestea provides a superior consumer proposition in a country of more than 200 million people where tea, in fact, is the third largest segment. As I mentioned at the outset, we are delivering healthy, balanced growth across the Asia portfolio and our outlook for the rest of the year does remain positive. Now I'll turn things over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Mary. There are still four topics that I'd like to cover before we move to your questions. The first are some questions I've received recently about brand acquisitions. Secondly, a little more detail about stock option accounting. Third, I'd like to talk a little bit about consolidation and consolidation accounting and fourth, and most importantly, our financial results. As you've heard from our operators, our unit case growth has been driven by solid performance in key markets such as in U.S., Japan, Mexico, China and western Europe. Carbonated beverages continue to be our key drivers of growth. 

 In addition, we have expanded our leadership position in non-carbonated beverages. As we have articulated through our strategic priorities, we are expanding into new beverage categories where there are strong growth and profit opportunities. Our approach in this expansion will sometimes be to introduce new brands, sometimes it will be to acquire local or regional brands that we believe will strengthen our beverage offerings in each market. We have a very diligent and deliberate process of evaluating brand opportunities and we will only consider brands that, one, improve our strategic position in a market, two, have attractive and predictable earnings growth potential, and, three, are beneficial to the economics of the entire Coca-Cola system. These transactions are about creating significant future value for our shareholders. We only enter into transactions which will strategically improve our position in the overall nonalcoholic beverage category. 

 In all of these situations our objective is to expand and grow these brands through the focus and resources of the entire Coca-Cola system. Now let me discuss how these brands will be handled in our earnings releases. Our policies will be very clear and consistent. We intend to provide you with a size of any brand when they join the Coca-Cola family so that you will have a basis for understanding our strategic rationale for the acquisition. We do not plan on individually reporting each of the brands on a quarter over quarter basis. Our objective is to bring them into our system and then accelerate their growth. 

 In the current quarter, the only large brand acquisition that impacted the Company's volume was the Cosmos transaction in the Philippines that occurred in late 2001. As we previously communicated, the volume of the Cosmos brands was slightly over 100 million cases in the year prior to joining the Coca-Cola system. Other small items that benefited results in the quarter were the Adwala brands, which we also acquired in late 2001, the Segrams brands for which the deal closed in June, and several small, regional water brands in Germany. At the same time we are focused on our business we are also focused on insuring that our investors have the upmost confidence in the integrity of our financial segments. 

 With that said, let me address accounting for stock options. As I previously stated, the Company will expense the cost of stock options that the Company grants beginning with options granted this year. We are adopting the fair value base method of recording stock options, contained in [INAUDIBLE] statement number 123, which is considered the preferable accounting method for stock based employee compensation. All future employee stock option grants will be expensed over the stock option vesting period, based on the fair value at the date the options are granted. 

 The company expects minimal financial impact in the current year from the adoption of this accounting methodology, we expect the impact to be approximately 1 cent per share for 2002. As options are granted to employees in the future, those grants will also be expensed over their vesting period. Therefore, the full effect of implementing this new statement will layer in over the vesting period's option program, the numbers that we presented to our board reflect the best estimate of the amount of expense over the next several years as a penny in 2002, about 3 cents in 2003, 5 cents in 2004, 7 cents in 2005 and leveling off at around 9 or 10 cent level in 2006. To wrap up on options, I'd like to state that an important advantage of expensing policy is that it puts the various forms of options and other compensation on an equal accounting footing, eliminating any bias that may have existed to issue the kind of options that do not need to be expensed. This new policy will allow us to design compensation packages that make optimum sense and continue to drive behaviors that maximize value for our shareholders. 

 Now I'd like to spend just a minute on consolidation and consolidation policy. I've received several questions recently and in fact, there's an article in the "Wallstreet Journal" this morning that I would like to address. Number one, we do not control Coca-Cola Enterprises and do not have a choice. The accounting rules do not allow consolidation; however, we do provide all the relevant information in our financial statements so that investors can have a clear understanding of the financial impact and the relationship of the companies. But most importantly, and if I could, if we could get some accountants to start writing some articles in periodicals, there is no impact to reported earnings per share or net income whether we consolidate bottlers or not. 

 The earnings per share and net income of The Coca-Cola Company is unaffected by the consolidation policy because we already include our share of the earnings of those bottlers in our consolidated earnings. Now I would like to turn our discussion to financial highlights. As you saw in today's release, our earnings per share were 52 cents in the second quarter which included a 2 cent negative impact of currency. This performance is right in line with the Company's long-term expectations for earning's growth. 

 If you were to adjust for the adoption of FAS-142 on good will, and incremental marketing investment in 2001, our second quarter earnings would have grown approximately 11% on a currency neutral basis. On a year to date basis earnings per share grew at 11% when you also exclude the one-time items and the negative impact of currencies. Cash flow characteristics of our business remain strong as net cash from operating activities was $2.2 billion in the first six months of the year. Reflecting the improving cash flow trend, the company spent approximately $300 million to repurchase 5.9 million shares of common stock during the first six months of the year. 

 As we look to the second half of 2002, we remain comfortable with the range of analyst's earnings estimates for the full year and our outlook for full year volume remains unchanged. We're still facing difficult economic environments in many regions. However, our business operators are adjusting well in these situations, as you saw in today's release, our outlook for full year volume remains unchanged. What we said at the beginning of the year still stands, however, we have consistently said that this does not take into account volume on new transactions. 

 Relative to currency, we are encouraged by the recent moves in currency as a weaker dollar will result in growth benefits for us moving forward. We will see more benefits as we look out past 2002 for when we look at the total baskets of currencies, the countries in which we do business, the negative trends in Latin America continue to offset some of the positive trends in the Euro. As many of you know, we have locked in coverage on the Yen. We have not changed our outlook for the impact of currencies for the current year. We still expect negative currency impact in 2002 in the range of 8-10 cents. Specifically for 2003, it is too early to set a specific estimate. However, if the U.S. dollar remains at current levels and no there are no major de-evaluations, our key emerging markets, the negative impact next year will be substantially less than in the current year. 

 Now to close and move on to Q&A, let me say our strategy is clear. Our management team is in place and our entire system is focused on execution. Because of the strength of our brands, our system and our people, we are extremely well-positioned to manage through the current environment and to deliver growth in 2002 and well into the future. With that I'd like to open the call to any questions and answers and we'll give answers to any questions you may have. Thank you. Operator. 

 OPERATOR: At this time I would like to remind everyone that if you would like to ask a question, please press star one on your touch tone phone. If you would like to withdraw your question, please push 2. Once again, if you would like to ask a question, please press star one now. The first question comes from Andrew Conway Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 ANDREW CONWAY, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you, operator. Two brief questions this morning. One of them for Jeff Dunn, the other for Sandy Allan, please. First on the U.S. business, Jeff. Could you talk a little bit about what your consumer research shows in light of our economy, in the ability for the system to take up pricing in the bottle-can side of the carbonated business, recognizing that CCE and your bottlers control that at a retail price. Talk a little bit about what your consumer research shows in the ability of the system to move forward and take price at take home. And if there isn't that capability, would you over time reassess your ability to take up concentrate pricing 1-1.5 to 2% in the U.S? My second question to Sandy is if he could compare and contrast how his prior officer, the German strategy, talk a little bit about how he's going to move forward on improving the profitability of a very strong German business, and what are the key drivers to improve brand preference, please. 

 JEFF DUN: Thanks, Andy this is Jeff. You've got some consumer confidence issues out there, certainly the market environments contributing to that. At the end of the day, we don't see a huge consumer barrier to us being able to get price realization over time for our brands. As you know pricing is complicated. We define the marketplace in terms of pricing beyond our largest competitor. We look at what customers want to do with our products in their stores and their own strategies. What consumers are willing to pay, what our competitors are doing, and it's a very complicated mix as we look at pricing strategy. But I don't believe there's any inherent barriers to us getting price realization. If you look at Neilsen CSD data for all major channels, retail pricing has been rational. Year over year comparisons show pricing for our system down in only two of the last nine weeks, where as retail pricing by our primary competitor is down seven of those nine weeks. But, we know everyone is committed to a rational pricing environment. And again, I think it is a function of marketing, our brand-package-channel strategies and our ability to continue to look for opportunities to move price up and the bottom line is we are committed to that, CC is committed to that and we see opportunities in the second half to continue to push out on that. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Great. 

 SANDY ALLAN: Andrew. This is the position in Germany. Germany is, in fact, currently our number four profit market in Europe. So it is not number one and I think there's always been an impression that, you know, Germany is the number one profit center for the Company in Europe, but, in fact, it's not, it's number four. Specifically to your question, when we took the management agreement of CCEAG which accounts for about 70% of the volume, we did that because in our view, our system in Germany is pretty inefficient. It's high cost and low productivity. So, as we move forward with the management agreement, as a change of policy, if you like, we will be driven to take cost out of business and become the low-cost producer because that's the only way that we believe that we can be competitive in the marketplace. The marketplace in Germany is very competitive. There's strong growth in what we call discount channels. So in order to be able to compete profitability, we have to take cost out of the system. I think on brand preference as you may be aware, there is a change in packaging in Germany and that the market is progressively moving from returnable packaging to nonreturnable packaging and quite frankly, we have been slow in the past to adjust to that change. So in addition to the normal, aggressive and exciting consumer marketing that we will do in Germany, what is equally important is to have the right package in the right channel at the right price. And that is what we are currently doing and it's because of that that we are now stabilizing Germany and getting volume growth. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Sandy, is it reasonable to anticipate as Germany its profits have eroded as a percentage of the European base, that going forward over the next several years, it can deliver perhaps volume and profit ahead of your total group average? 

 SANDY ALLAN: Absolutely. That's obviously what we do and you are perfectly correct. The fact that Germany is now number four has been a combination of other major countries in Europe doing very well and the decline in our German profitability. So, in the future, absolutely. We expect that Germany over the next two, three, four years will produce profits higher than the average. 

 ANDREW CONWAY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Carolyn Levy, UBS Warburg. 

 CAROLYN LEVY, UBS WARBURG: Good morning everybody. Two questions. In talking about currency, Gary, Europe represents about 30% of your profits as I understand it and Latin America about 18% of operating profit. So I'm wondering why weakness there would fully offset any benefits in the Euro and also just make the point that I think most estimates were assuming downside in the yen next year and that could easily be a wash. So isn't there some reasonable possibility that there would be upsides to earnings next year because of currency? The second question, Jeff, perhaps you could address or, maybe Steve would like to talk about this, but Sprite seems to be a real, real problem and I think we are all holding our breath for some good news. If you could get more specific as to why Sprite volume should turn around, I think would be very helpful. 

 GARY FAYARD: Okay. Carolyn, perhaps I could start on currency first. Europe is about 25% of the Company's operating income. Latin America was about 18%. Both those percentages as of full year 2001. So they are not that far apart. What you are seeing is we are seeing strength in the Euro, obviously [INAUDIBLE] this week. And I guess I would say a couple of things. Number one, that strength has been very recent. Only in the last few weeks we saw a little bit of benefit for a week or two in June but that's all. So it's recent number one, you've got quite a bit of currency going the other way, particularly in Latin America. You've also -- Turkey is a major weakness in their currency as well. So you've got weakness in several currencies around the world. Relative to the Yen, even with the recent weakness, in the dollar vs. the yen, and even at its current levels, we were successful in actually hedging our position that we are still in a better position than even at the place where the Yen is today. So we'll just -- I think it's just too early to tell at this point to see exactly what currency might do for next year. 

 JEFF DUN: Hey Carolyn, Jeff, how are you doing? Sprite, we are literally in the midst of launching a new campaign for Sprite, as we sit here. "What's your thirst" is the central line. We believe that this will start to put back the advertising energy behind the brand which was so essential to its growth. We are looking at two or three other initiatives. Because, what's happened this year and really going back to the middle of last year, is innovation is clearly driving the CSD's that are leading category growth. We've seen that with Diet Coke with lemon and Vanilla Coke. We need that same kind of innovation behind Sprite. The last piece is quite frankly, causals. We've seen some erosions in visual inventory for Sprite and we're working very hard with bottling systems to get that visual inventory back to where it needs to be because that, quite frankly, is an issue with the brand. So we need one, this[INAUDIBLE] to take hold. We have great confidence, we've got the right strategy there. Number two, drive more innovation into the brand and, three, get the causals back. With those three things, we have confidence we'll get Sprite back on a growth protectory. 

 CAROLYN LEVY: Thank you, Jeff. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Mark Greenburg, Deutsche Bank. 

 MARK GREENBURG, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Gary, my question relates to the May [INAUDIBLE] draft for accounting guarantees. Specifically as it relates to indebtedness of others, would you please elaborate on your bottler relationships in that regard and how, if at all, you expect these changes may impact Coke's balance sheet, thank you. 

 GARY FAYARD: Yes, Mark. Do not expect any impact at all. We do not guarantee any of the debt of the bottlers and there will be no impact. It's that simple. 

 MARK GREENBURG: Great, and, Steve, if I could just follow up quickly with you on Brazil. Can you elaborate a little more on the pricing strategy between yourselves and the bottlers for the remainder of the year and how you expect the bottlers to approach profitability in the near term, the next couple of quarters? 

 STEVEN HEYER: Yeah, Mark. I'd be glad to do that. I think Stu Cross has done a fantastic job getting everybody lined up and the bottlers are enthusiastic that we have a winning strategy going forward and that strategy tries to find the right balance between how we grow volume and how we realize price. Basically, the system profitability in Brazil is a lot more complicated a question as you know than just taking prices up or down. And so we are managing the mix of brands, packages and channels so that we can really take advantage of the most effective range of choices. And through that management we believe we can realize price without really giving up any or certainly not very much volume. In the past, I think, we were perhaps a little too focused on one package, one channel, and we're leveraging the strength of the system now and we're really focused on the up and down the street business where we can make our brands both available and affordable. In the second quarter, as I said, we achieved volume growth of 4% in the pricing environment that was pretty favorable for all of our bottlers. Some of the results are not yet in. But really returns are promising that price realization is occurring. Our expectation is that we are going to keep finding that right balance to optimize the returns on behalf of the system. 

 MARK GREENBURG: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Mark Cohen, Goldman Sachs. 

 MARK COHEN, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yeah, Hi. Just to stay in the element. It seems that you are excelerating your water strategy in Europe and the profitability of the water business in Europe has, historically has different dynamics than the profitability of the water business here which of course is a less mature business. Can you sort of bring some focus around the profitability of the category in Europe in what is unique about your strategy as you go into a deeper penetration of that category to not only grow the business but grow it profitably? 

 SANDY ALLAN: Yeah. The first thing you have to understand about the European water business. One, is it's very old. It's been established for in some countries literally for hundreds of years. And the second fact is that about 95% of water -- packaged water in Europe currently is source water. In other words, it comes out of the ground. Many regulations inside Europe, labeling regulations that really prohibit the expansion of processed water. There are also about 600-700 different brands in Europe. So, it is a very, very fragmented business. Having said that, there are different types of water in Europe. There is what we call premium water like Evian, Vital, Perrier and then you have middle waters which sell at a little less price and then you have what I would call the commodity waters which are very regional, local brands. I think, you know, when you look at water, you got to keep in mind it isn't necessarily the margin per case that's the real issue. It's what you multiple that margin by. And we believe that with our water strategy in Europe, we are going to participate in all three categories of water, that's the premium, middle level and, if you like, commodity. And obviously with commodity water, the margins are significantly less, but the volumes are significantly more, so we believe that going forward on a revenue basis, we can, in fact, drive significant profitability from the water category. 

 MARK COHEN: Okay. 

 OPERATOR: Once again, if there are any further questions, please press star one now. Thank you. We have one question from Bill Tikalala (ph) of Morgan Stanley. 

 GARY FAYARD: Okay. Thank You. And that will be the last question, please. 

 BILL TIKALALA, MORGAN STANLEY: Gary, my question is trying to understand your underlying operating income growth. [INAUDIBLE] back to FAS-142 adjustment, on one time market spending, we get around 6% currency neutral operating profit growth in the quarter, can you talk about going forward, the key drivers of accelerating that toward the 10% currency neutral operating profit growth, in terms of product mix and efficiencies, market stem leverage, I know it's a complex issue, but just some of the broader themes that will drive that improvement over time. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks for the question. First just to kind of give a reconciliation, reported operating income growth was 9%. We said that that was impacted by about 3 points of currency. So on a currency neutral basis that would get you to 12. There's about a point from the goodwill FAS change so that would get you down to 11% growth. Then for those that last year agreed with the Company that the incremental marketing was, in fact, incremental, you should take 5 points off and that would show 6%. For those of you that put in your analyst reports that it was not incremental marketing, then it's a true 11% growth. So, I just want to be clear that it's one or the other but you can't have it both ways. With that said, we are very focused on brand, package and channel in every country in which we operate, and that's where we are really growing. You can hear Sandy talking about the water and opportunities for water in Europe, but he's being very careful about the brands and the packages and what channels, particularly package and channel that he's going with water in. You can see what Jeff is doing around Vanilla Coke and the introduction for a full month ahead because it's a very high profitability package. And really we would go through each of the six strategic priorities that we are driving, both around enhancing our brands, continuing our growth both in CSD and non-carbs where we've got leadership position now, in both of those major categories and continuing driving efficiency at the same time. In addition to that, I think you are starting to really see now how the strategy's truly working. Because you are seeing significant improvement in the operating results of our bottlers where that strategy is really taking hold as well. So we are delivering results and our bottlers are really delivering results and so you're seeing a double effect, if you will, as we move forward. 

 BILL TIKALALA: Great. 

 GARY FAYARD: Go ahead, Bill. 

 BILL TIKALALA: And market spending allocation, you've talked about that in the past as being an important driver going forward of increased efficiencies. 

 GARY FAYARD: Yes, and we are looking very carefully at how we prioritize our spending across all markets. In each of our divisions, I mean, it goes from a country to a region to a division to a group level and then total consolidated company as we prioritize spending. It's very much, if you will, the example would be Argentina, which Steve talked about where it is not a lot about marketing and media right now in Argentina. It's really about affordability and getting into refillable because affordability is what will drive our business in Argentina and ensure that when Argentina comes out of the current crisis that they are in, that we come out as a much stronger player in that market. I want to thank all of you for joining us today on this call. And if you should, any of you should have questions, please feel free to call our investor relations department. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with the Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the company's website at www.coca-cola.com. You may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gsocc : Soccer | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nrgn : Routine General News | ntra : Transcript
   RE
africaz : Africa | asiaz : Asia | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021226dy7h0006o
  


 HD
 Q1  2002 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,616 words
   PD
16 April 2002
   ET
06:55 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 UNIDENTIFIED: (audio-gap) and our senior operating officers, who are in New York for our shareowners' meeting. 

 Today Gary and I are joined by Sandy Allan, who's the president of our operations in Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East; Alex Cummings, who's the president of our Africa group; Jeff Dunn, the president of the Americas; and Mary Minnick, the president of our Asia group. 

   TD
 Our prepared comments will last approximately 20 to 15 minutes, and then we will allocate time to your questions and answers. So that we can get to as many questions as possible, we'd ask everyone to try to limit your questions to one, and then if you have more questions, please then return to the que. 

 Before we get started, I'd like to remind everyone that this conference call does contain forward-looking statements, including statements concerning long-term volume and earnings objectives and should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary statements that are contained in our earnings release and in Exhibit 99.1 of the company's most recent Form 10-K. 

 Now let me turn things over to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Larry. And thanks to each of you for joining the call this morning. 

 As Larry said, we are all here in New York in preparation for our annual shareholders' meeting, which is tomorrow. And I look forward to seeing some of you hopefully in person tomorrow if you're able to join us. 

 As indicated by today's earnings release, we continue to deliver solid performance. We see our ability to deliver unit case volume growth of over five percent within this very challenging economic environment in which we're operating as quite an accomplishment. 

 Our first quarter volume performance, earnings per share growth and free cash flow generation are a result of our disciplined approach to executing our strategic priorities. We are totally aligned around the following priorities: accelerating carbonated soft drink growth, led by Coca-Cola; selectively broadening our family of beverage brands to drive profitable growth; growing system profitability and capability together with our bottling partners; serving customers with creativity and consistency to generate growth across all channels; directing investments to the highest potential areas across all markets; and driving efficiency and cost effectiveness everywhere. 

 And I think, as we go through the call today, you will see that we have delivered on each of these priorities in the quarter and will continue to do so for the year and for the years ahead. And it has been this reason that we've been able to deliver industry-leading growth. The results released this morning reflect the fact that we are taking advantage of all of the strengths within the Coca-Cola system. 

 Our carbonated beverages grew three percent and our non-carbonated beverages grew by 22 percent, led by Dasani, Marocha Green Tea, Minute Maid, Qoo, and Powerade. We were also pleased that our growth in both North America and our international operations was up five percent. You'll hear in a few minutes from our senior operators on what contributed to that growth and strong growth all around the world. 

 From an earnings perspective, there are a couple of unusual items in the quarter. Most of these we discussed with you at the end of January. But those items include: a gain arising from the sale of our stake in Kaiser, a brewer in Brazil; our required adoption of FAS-142, dealing with goodwill; a reclassification of marketing expenses -- that's EITF 0109 for the technical accountants in the group; the write-down of some investments in Latin America related to the economic crisis in Argentina. 

 When you exclude those items from consideration, our underlying business results on a currency neutral basis were very positive, with ongoing earnings per share increasing 11 percent. And that's even with gallons only being up one percent when case volume is up over five. And that really gives us a lot more confidence in hitting our full year earnings per share targets for the year. 

 The impact of the stronger U.S. dollar reduced our earnings per share by approximately eight percent during the quarter. I think that's probably about a penny greater than many of you may have thought. That's particularly related to the economic issues in Latin America. 

 In addition to the positive results at the Coca-Cola Company, we also continue to see improvement in the financial results of our bottling partners around the world. And I'll cover some of these financial details in a few minutes in a lot more detail. But first, allow me to pass over to Sandy Allan, who delivered a very strong quarter in Europe. 

 Sandy? 

 SANDY ALLAN, PRESIDENT, EUROPE, EURASIA, MIDDLE EAST GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks Gary. 

 I'm pleased to have the opportunity to talk about the performance for Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East business unit in the first quarter and also give you a sense of what is coming up in the next three months. 

 Our total business grew in volume by eight percent. Within that eight percent, we recognize that some of the growth was a result of Easter occurring in quarter one this year versus quarter two last year. However, the group still achieved strong volume growth for the quarter. 

 There are many reasons for this good result. And they differ by market. But the one overriding factor for the success is the continued strong alignment between the company and its bottlers. 

 If I just look at our three biggest bottlers across the region -- Coca-Cola Enterprises, Coca-Cola Hellenic and CCEAG, our major bottler in Germany -- which together account for over 60 percent of our total volume in size of business unit, the relationship within the system is strong. And we are aligned on both the strategies and the plans. This is obviously starting to have a positive impact on the business. Let me now say something specifically about Germany. Here, volume grew by six percent. Within that six percent, brand Coke grew plus five, Coca-Cola Light grew plus 12 and Sprite grew plus eight percent. The management control agreement the company now has in place with CCEAG, which accounts for close to 70 percent of the volume in Germany, is beginning to take real effect. 

 However, injecting a note of realism here, there is still much to do in Germany as we simultaneously drive daily sales and work in ways to reengineer the business for the future. But the signs are encouraging. 

 What is also encouraging is that our good business performance for the first quarter was spread across the whole of the business unit. Of our nine operating divisions, seven of them exceeded their budgets for the quarter. And the remaining two were on plan. 

 If we look to the second quarter and the rest of the year, I believe we are now on the right track to deliver our business objectives. I am confident in the plans we have, both on core brands and on new beverages. 

 On core brands, we are executing massive activities around the World Cup soccer and brand Coke in particular. Half of the teams competing in this year's World Cup soccer finals in Japan and Korea come from my part of the world. This is great news for European soccer fans and equally great news for our business. We are activating this global property with advertising, packaging, promotions and customer activities across the region to further connect brand Coca-Cola emotionally with our consumers and to, of course, drive profitable volume. 

 A quick word on Diet Coke or Coca-Cola Light in Europe, which continues to grow at double digits in most markets, even in the more developed ones. The launch of Diet Coke with lemon in Great Britain, Austria and France is underway. And we have great expectations for it. 

 On Sprite, we are doing the first ever line extensions in Europe, with Sprite Cool (ph) in Italy, a formulation with a taste of mint, a Sprite Zero (ph) in Greece, a new way we are thinking about Diet Sprite in that market. 

 On Fanta, we continue to see solid growth in the brand, further enhanced by fruit-based line extensions. In the second quarter, we are launching, for example, Fanta Lime in Russia, Fanta Latino (ph) in France, which is a mixed fruit blend, and many other new Fanta flavors across the region. 

 The final point I would like to make about core brands is the strong continued focus we have on immediate consumption. In almost every market, there are big opportunities, both in volume and, of course, in value to the entire system. Strategically, immediate consumption is critical to strengthening our preference scores and growing our base of daily drinkers. 

 Just to give you one example, in Italy, we have a huge program called "Pit Stop Refreshment," a program that incorporates significant cooler placements, presence and TV advertising linking Coca-Cola to the hugely popular sports car racing. 

 So lots of activity is planned across our core brands in the next three months. 

 In the area of new beverages, which is playing an ever-increasing role in this part of the world, the second quarter will also be exciting. We are executing 17 new launches or significant relaunches. 

 Water continues to be a focus. Bonaqa is being completely relaunched in both Germany and Russia. 

 In the area of juice and juice drinks, we are launching our Disney range of juice drinks in Great Britain, France and the Netherlands. The Disney concepts, led by the characters of Mickey Mouse, Pooh Bear and Roo have tested extremely well with consumers. And combined with some excellent product development and innovative packaging, I am enthusiastic about our efforts here. 

 Powerade continues to perform extremely well in the five markets in which it has been launched. And as five more markets come onstream this year, I expect this to continue. 

 In total, Powerade volume was on plan for the first quarter and has achieved approximately eight percent market share of the European sports drink category in just three months. 

 So that's where we are with the European business: a strong first quarter. And I am pretty optimistic about what we are doing in Europe to drive sustainable growth. 

 I'd now like to hand you over to Alex Cummings, who also had a very strong quarter. 

 ALEX CUMMINGS, PRESIDENT, AFRICA GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Sandy. It's a pleasure to join you this morning. It's not often that I'm in town to participate in investor calls. And it is therefore my pleasure to be able to be able to be with you today. 

 We don't have too much time to cover all of our markets. But I'd like to take a moment to define Africa. For us, Africa is the entire continent, comprising 56 countries, including the Indian Ocean islands. The continent is one-fifth of the world's land mass, with 20 cities of one million-plus population and the highest population growth rate in the world at roughly three-plus percent. 

 As some of you may know, South Africa is our biggest market and quite a success story. Just for context, it's about the size of Italy and France, from a volume perspective. However, our future also relies on countries like Nigeria, which has the potential to become Africa's largest beverage market. And we grew that business last year about 36 percent. 

 Our business is driven by a few key success factors. First, CSDs are the heart of our business. We have a high CSD market share. But our real opportunity is growing per caps. And we are doing that at a double-digit growth rate. 

 We leverage this leading position to selectively enter new segments and last year introduced 32 new products, flavors and packages. 

 Africa, as you know, is a poor continent. And we have to drive affordability. We do that through packages and through system efficiency. We focus on our top key markets -- our top key six markets -- which are: South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia and Kenya. And those markets are all growing very, very well. 

 We continuously nurture our strong bottler relationship, which are healthy. And all of our bottlers are profitable. 

 And finally, we leverage our experience in managing uncertainty and risk. We are profitable in all markets where we operate in the continent. 

 The first quarter is a very good illustration of how this approach is working. We delivered strong unit case volume growth, up 11 percent versus prior year. Core CSDs made up the majority of that growth. Brand Coke is growing behind renewed equity and operational focus. And we introduced 25 new products, packages and flavors, both in CSDs and non-CSDs. 

 So as you can see, we had a relatively good first quarter. And we are confident about the rest of the year. But more importantly, we believe in the long-term future of Africa. And our strategies and investments will be guided by this belief. Now I'd like to turn you over to Jeff. 

 JEFFREY DUNN, PRESIDENT, AMERICAS GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thanks, Alex. Good morning, everyone. First, I have to take exception to Sandy Allan's not-so-subtle endorsement of the European soccer teams, World Cup teams. Everyone knows that Latin America will produce the World Cup champion. 

 So with that, let's go on. It's certainly a pleasure to talk about North American and Latin American results this morning. North America had a solid quarter, plus five. Latin America, facing tough challenges that everyone knows in Venezuela and Argentina, was flat. But that was very good performance. And I'll break it down for you. 

 If you look at Latin America, results were driven first by solid performance in Mexico, up five percent; in Central America, up four percent, despite relatively soft economies in these regions. Argentina and Venezuela are having a significant negative impact, not only on Latin American volume, but worldwide volume. 

 Brazil improved through the quarter. But the improvement was not enough to overcome weakness in January, which is the largest month in the quarter. Brazil, specifically, we made the decision to take price coming into the year, I think as we talked about, in order to recapture some of the 30 percent in value lost over the last two years, due to the devaluation of the real. 

 In January, as expected, our volumes were impacted by the price change. But additionally, it rained 21 of 31 days. And that led to a very weak January. 

 We had positive growth in February. That accelerated in March. And we're hopeful we can maintain positive growth through the rest of the year, as we take steps to rebalance profitability in this market, which I think is very important to the long-term sustainability for us and our bottling partners. 

 In Argentina, every day is a challenge. Our system is working very, very closely together. But the fact of the matter is it's a very tough situation. Volume was down 18 percent in the quarter. And that was actually good. We quickly responded. 

 And there is two key things we're doing in Argentina as we go forward. One is continuing to connect our brands with consumers. We went dark in January and February but came back on-air in March. 

 And this is very simple. Consumers are telling us in Argentina that they're going to judge brands by those people who stand by them in the crisis. And so it's important for us to activate World Cup. Argentina is a World Cup participant. And we've got great creative running there. 

 Number two, we're adjusting our package mix by moving emphasis back to returnables. Actually, market share is up in Argentina. And the returnable business needs a little infrastructure that we're working with bottlers to put back in so we can be more affordable, given the obvious economic issues with the consumer in Argentina. 

 Next, let me talk Mexico. Can't say enough good about Mexico. Business accelerated quarter over quarter last year. One in the first, two in the second, three in the third, four in the fourth and then five in the first quarter of this year. 

 That's very good performance. It's driven by both strong marketing and focus on value packages. And we've got great World Cup plans going forward. 

 Let me take North America next. We had solid growth of five percent and gained share across major segments. When we take into account all channels, the growth is comprised of six percent bottle and can growth and over three percent fountain growth. Both bottlers --Coca-Cola Enterprises and Consolidated -- will report their results in the next few days. And I think you'll be pleased, as we are, with improving trends in both their businesses. 

 As we look at the non-alcoholic landscape, in the last 12 months rolling in North America, we've grown over three percent, which is right at our business model. 

 There's four keys to that growth over the last 12 months and the five percent in the first quarter. The first key is core brands, led by Coca-Cola. Trademark Coke was up three percent for the first quarter, which is very gratifying. That was comprised of one percent growth for Coca-Cola Classic and over 10 percent growth for the Diet Coke trademark, driven not only by Diet Coke, but the introduction of Diet Coke with lemon. 

 The fact of the matter is cola growth has been reasserted in North America. And with the announcement yesterday of the launch of Vanilla Coke, we see that continuing into the rest of 2002. 

 The second key is water. Dasani continues to grow very healthily and very profitably. We positioned it as a value-added product and, because of that, were able to maintain price points and continue to deliver through our DSD system, which we believe is advantaged in this area. And we feel very good about the performance there. 

 The other piece to Dasani which is important is placing it in food service outlets. We've placed it in close to 8,000 so far. And our strategy there is to place it on economic and service terms. The fact of the matter is we don't want to give it away there. We want to make sure that we're maintaining price integrity. And we believe that that is a real opportunity for us to continue to expand the footprint of the brand. 

 While on the subject of fountain, I want to reiterate the basic strategy of fountain is value added. We're at very high market shares. And we're holding market share there. And the bottom line is we've earned that position through customer service and a superior infrastructure over a long period of time. 

 And price is not our strategy. And we are going to continue to focus on delivering value to customers through service and not irrational pricing. 

 Third key is Powerade. Very strong performance in the first quarter, up 20 percent. Fastest growing brand in the category. And the real interesting key there is C&P, where the brand has had good growth. And if you all will remember, we talked about the strategy for Powerade was expand the footprint in supermarkets last year, relaunch the brand in July. The brand has taken hold with the consumer. And in C&P, which is a freedom of choice market, Powerade continues to gain share and perform very well. 

 The fourth key is juice and juice drinks. We had great performance on Minute Maid, up six percent for the quarter. That was led by not only the Minute Maid brand, but Simply Orange and the Disney juice drink rollout. Minute Maid Lemonade and Fruit Punch continue to drive incremental growth for the quarter and will be further strengthened in the second quarter by the launch of Pink Lemonade and Minute Maid Lemonade Light. 

 When you look across the board in our North American business, all the categories grew. We're continuing to drive innovation and learn how to do that with our bottlers. And we're improving the economics of the business for the system. 

 With that, let me turn it over to Mary Minnick, who will talk about our business in Asia. Thanks. 

 MARY MINNICK, PRESIDENT, ASIA GROUP, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY: Thank you, Jeff. 

 In the first quarter, the total Asia business volume grew a healthy nine percent. Importantly, if we exclude the results of the Philippines, where we recently acquired the Cosmos brands, growth in the rest of Asia was 8.5 percent. 

 While growth in the Philippines was solid, we are not yet realizing the full short-term volume gains in that market which were originally estimated. This is due to a number of restructuring initiatives that are critical to optimizing the long-term value of the Philippines business for ourselves and our bottling partner. 

 In a moment, I will share with you these initiatives. But first, I'd like to update you on our outstanding results in the rest of Asia. First quarter performance was particularly strong in key markets, with six percent volume growth in Japan, our key profit market, and strong double-digit growth in both China and India. 

 Let's take a closer look at Q1 performance in two key market, Japan and China. In our last conference call, I indicated we would aggressively pursue four strategic priorities to maintain strong volume and profit growth in Japan this year. These were: to continue to drive Coke growth; to growth our tea business aggressively; to maintain the momentum of Georgia; and to accelerate the highly profitable vending market. 

 In the first quarter of this year, we successfully executed against these four strategic priorities, resulting in very strong profitable volume growth of six percent. These results are particularly pleasing when compared against an estimated growth of around only two percent for the beverage industry as a whole 

 PCJC (ph) therefore has consistently gained share of the beverage market over the past four quarters. Whilst the first quarter seasonal growth rate in Japan generally favors tea and coffee, as we discussed two conference calls ago, we still achieved growth for our Coca-Cola trademark of 3.5 percent, driven by the first wave of our 2002 World Cup promotion and the continuation of the successful "No Reason" campaign. 

 Our other CSD brands have also performed well, especially brand Fanta. Our tea business in Q1 grew in excess of five percent. The result was driven by new Marocha graphics, which our green tea, the Sokenbicha relaunch in February, on pack promotions for Sokenbicha and Marocha and the launch of our new non-sugar tea product, Chaho (ph). 

 Georgia Coffee performed solidly, with three percent growth, cycling the 2001 emblem launch. Georgia continues to lead the coffee category in Japan. Our market share is 51 percent of canned coffee. And we gained two percentage points in Q1. 

 These solid results were driven by the introduction of several new flavors and the continuation of the highly successful "Tomorrow is Another Day" campaign. 

 Driven by strong sales of Georgia Coffee and Tea, we also saw solid gains in the important vending channel. However, it is worth noting, we expect the negative macroeconomic situation in Japan to continue. In spite of these circumstances, we believe that the fundamentals of our business are strong. And while we are not immune to these economic challenges, we are able to weather the weak economic environment. 

 This is our third significant recession for Japan in 10 years. And we have experience in managing these conditions. 

 We reported strong growth in China in the first quarter of just over 12 percent, with both our core CSD and non-carbonated brands performing solidly. Looking closer at our CSD performance, the core brands of Coke, Sprite and Fanta continue to show strong growth, collectively achieving an impressive nine percent volume growth. 

 First quarter CSD results were due to: a very successful integrated Chinese New Year marketing program, which grew promotive packs over 24 percents; an intensive, multifaceted Team China sponsorship campaign, which capitalizes on the national fervor over China's first ever qualification for the World Cup in 44 years; and an effective Fanta promotion, offering teens the latest fun electronic gadgets, which boosts sales over 19 percent. 

 During the quarter, our CSD business also achieved our highest share of CSDs since the second quarter of 1999, with a 52 percent share of the national market, plus three percent share points versus prior year. 

 Our non-carbonated brands also grew strongly in the first quarter in China and accounted for approximately one-half of our total volume growth for the period. The successful launch of the juice drink Qoo and the locally branded water Sensation Ice do help produce strong results. The launch of Qoo has been a runaway success, with sales in the first three months exceeding the annual budget. 

 Building on this success, we're about to commence an aggressive entry into the tea category in China, through our Yangguang and Nestea brands. Starting this week, we're nationally rolling Yangguang and Iced Fruit Tea in three flavors. And Nestea will also be introduced in the second quarter in two flavors. 

 The outlook for our business in China for the rest of 2002 remains positive. And we are expecting strong volume growth. 

 Now, let's return to the Philippines. Our business in the Philippines saw solid overall volume growth in the first quarter, driven by the acquisition of the Cosmos brands, and strong growth and share gains in non-carbs. With last year's acquisition of Cosmos, we are well positioned for strong future growth. We now participate in most non-alcoholic segments, including carbonated soft drinks, waters, juices and powders and manage more than 30 percent of all commercial beverages, including alcohol. 

 Together with San Miguel, we are in the process of implementing a number of programs to build and expand our overall system capabilities to position the business for the long run. One ongoing initiative is a business-critical optimization of our bottlers, distribution and logistics system, converting points of distribution from a large number of small, independent wholesalers to a smaller number of strong wholesaler partners, combined with a restructuring of the general trading term. 

 This new route-to-market is sound and necessary in order to build our sales and system for this future, to maintain our level of affordability and to be competitive in the marketplace. In addition to taking cost out of the system, the new structure will increase the number of outlets served significantly and enable us to have consistent trading terms and execution standards in place. 

 As a consequence of transitioning to the new setup, the core brand inventory level in the trade decreased significantly during this quarter, negatively impacting the volume shipped from our bottler in the first quarter. We are currently working aggressively with San Miguel to accelerate the rebuilding of the route-to-market system and reduce the transition impact to a minimum. However, the overall transition is expected to take until the end of this year. 

 We are confident about the long-term potential of our newly expanded business in this market. We're doing the right things now to optimize our investment in the country and maximize long-term value of the business. 

 In summary then, we're comfortable with the overall performance of Asia business in Q1. The fundamentals of our business are strong. Our CSD business is growing healthily in key markets, driven by solid marketing momentum. We are aggressively building our NCB -- non-carbonated beverage -- portfolio throughout the region. 

 We continue to grow our share of the non-alcoholic ready-to-drink segment in Asia. We are reducing costs as planned. And together with our bottling partners, we are successfully working together to optimize overall system economics. 

 Looking forward, the outlook for the Asian business for the rest of the year is positive. We are on-track and confident of reaching our targets and delivering Asia's share of the Coca-Cola Company's volume and profit objectives. 

 Now I'll turn things back to Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Mary. Now I'd like to make a few statements about our operating results for the quarter. The reported numbers were impacted by a number of items. And I'd like to make a few comments about each of those. 

 First, starting with Germany, as disclosed in our annual report and as we've discussed earlier and as Sandy talked about as well, we completed the control agreement with our German bottler, CCEAG, in early 2002. This transaction is being accounted for as a business combination. Therefore, we began fully consolidating the German bottler in February of this year. 

 From an income statement standpoint, the consolidation of the German bottling operations impacted essentially most of the lines on the income statement, as we have consolidated a business with a sizable revenue base and not much income historically. For the full year 2001 -- so full year last year -- the German bottlers' revenues were about $1.7 billion and roughly break-even earnings. And that's after the implementation of FAS-142, related to amortization of goodwill. 

 Secondly, around Kaiser, the first quarter results include the impact of the sale of the Kaiser brand in Brazil, which resulted in a slight gain. Because Coca-Cola's ownership was both direct and indirect through equity investments in our bottling partners in Brazil, we recorded a penny per share after tax gain on this transaction. The penny has reflected about half of that in equity income and half of that in other income in our income statement. 

 This is a non-recurring item the way we've looked at it and does not impact our estimate of ongoing recurring earnings for the year. During the quarter, we also recorded a non-cash asset impairment charge of $157 million before tax, or about six cents per share for investment in Latin America caused by the devaluation and economic crisis in Argentina. 

 We also, as most all companies in the U.S. had to do, implemented a EITF 109, which resulted in a reclassification of about $520 million last year, from selling expenses to deductions from revenues. That's for the first quarter 2001. We have posted a detailed schedule showing the impact of the implementation of this standard by quarter, by segment, on our company's Web site for those who would like to see that information. 

 Next, the implementation of FAS 142, the new statement related to goodwill and intangibles, as we discussed with you in January, as well as in our annual report, the cumulative effect of the adoption of this standard resulted in a non-cash charge in the first quarter of this year of approximately $926 million. As mentioned in the release, we also expect an additional benefit to current year earnings of approximately a penny per share, related to a slightly lower tax rate resulting from the reduced amortization expense from the implementation of this new goodwill standard. This benefit will flow through to the full year results, as the tax rate which we'll maintain for the foreseeable future is lower than what we had originally anticipated in January. 

 Just to be very clear, in January, we talked about reducing our ongoing tax rate to 27.5 percent. And I said that we were very comfortable in holding that tax rate for the foreseeable future. We would now expect that our ongoing recurring tax rate would be 27 percent, so about a penny benefit. And I would expect you to add that penny to your estimate of earnings for the full year. And we will be able to maintain that 27 percent tax rate on an ongoing basis for the foreseeable future. 

 Once all the accounting changes and the structural changes are taken into consideration, we are left with operating results which are very solid, but impacted by two items; first, currency; and secondly, the timing of gallon shipments. Gallons increased one percent in the quarter, which is four percentage points below the growth in unit cases. And this is primarily due to timing. As I said earlier, it gives us even more confidence in hitting our full year target for earnings per share, as we do anticipate the gallon shipment growth will come back more in line with unit case growth on a full year basis. 

 Also in the quarter, around selling, general and administrative expenses, you'll see that on a reported basis, those were up. And that is due to the structural changes caused by the consolidation of bottling operations in Germany, Norway, Sweden and Brazil and then somewhat offset by the sale of the Russia and Baltic bottling operations. Excluding the structural change from those bottlers, SG&A declined slightly when compared to the prior year. 

 I think, very importantly, our business model continues to produce significant free cash flow. In the first quarter, we generated over $950 million in cash from operations, which is an increase of 35 percent when compared to the prior year. Our dividend payout increased 11 percent over the first quarter of last year, reflecting our confidence in our business model and where we're taking this business. And we also spent about $175 million during the quarter on the repurchase of company stock. 

 We expect that our share repurchase activity will continue on that pace for an annual pace of at least $750 million in 2002, if not higher. As I believe you heard from our operators, we are still facing many macroeconomic challenges. But we're very pleased with today's announcement and by all of the activities which are taking place around the world. 

 But we are still facing difficult economic environments in many regions. But let me just be very clear. Our outlook for full year volume and earnings growth remains unchanged, other than you can add the penny for the decrease in the tax rate. 

 As you saw, the crisis in Argentina impacted results from both the operating income and other income net line. However, our outlook for negative currency impact for the current year has not changed. We still expect negative currency impact for 2002 in the range of eight to 10 cents. But based upon first quarter events, we anticipate an impact at the upper end of the range and skewed to the first half of the year. 

 As we stated in this morning's release, we remain comfortable with the range of analyst earnings estimates for the full year, which exclude non-recurring items and are posted on first call at $1.76 to $1.80. And with the penny from the tax change, I would expect to see the first call go to $1.77 to $1.81. 

 Turning to our disclosure policies, let me outline a few important changes that we are making to provide investors with relevant and timely information. As noted in today's release, beginning in the second quarter, we are going to expand our financial disclosures to provide quarterly balance sheets and cash flow statements. This additional data will help investors focus on a wide range of metrics used to evaluate our performance. 

 In addition, we will discontinue the practice of regularly issuing a volume update in advance of final quarterly results. We will still be discussing our volume performance in the context of our operating results at the time of our earnings release. This timing change will provide investors with the fullest possible discussion of our results and will allow investors to continue focusing on the long-term metrics that drive value for the Coca-Cola Company. 

 As you can see from our results, we are pursuing clear strategies which are building on a business model to deliver consistent, predictable and sustainable growth. There is still much to accomplish, as we must continue to improve our strategic and financial position. But because of the strength of our brands, our system and our people -- and let me repeat that, the strength of our brands, system and people -- we are extremely well positioned to manage through the current environment and to deliver growth well into the future. 

 With that, I'd like to open the call to any questions that you may have. 

 Operator? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, we would like to take questions. If you would like to ask a question, please press "star-one" on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced by your name and company prior to asking a question. To withdraw your question, please press "two." Once again, if you would like to ask a question, please press "star-one." 

 The first question comes from Caroline Levy (ph), UBS Warburg. 

 CAROLINE LEVY (ph), UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everybody. I was wondering, Jeff, perhaps if you could elaborate a little bit on what you've learned about Vanilla Coke in tests or in consumer groups and how you're thinking about that impacting the business this year? And also, address whether there are any new ad campaigns coming on Coke Class and Sprite, just the marketing activity around those brands. 

 JEFFREY DUNN: Hey, Caroline. 

 CAROLINE LEVY (ph): Hi. 

 JEFFREY DUNN: Vanilla Coke. Well, without going into a lot of detail, the headlines would be this: "Consumers Across all Demos are Very Interested in the Product." You may have seen that just from the massive press speculation on it. I think that's a good metaphor for the consumer interest. 

 As we have gone into testing, they not only buy into the concept, but they really like the product, again across all the consumer groups. And it's almost like Contour. The fact of the matter is when we launched Contour, adults remembered it from the glass bottle. Teens thought it was new and interesting. That would be the analog here to Vanilla Coke. 

 So we're excited about the launch. We think it will add excitement to the cola category and to brand Coca-Cola. And as we've seen with Diet Coke with lemon, that can accelerate the whole category. So that's going to be fun. 

 Relative to add campaigns on Coke and Sprite, both are in development. We're on it right now with the Kobe stuff on Sprite that's working very well. We think that's great. 

 And on Coke, as we look to the launch of Vanilla Coke summer promotion, we are continuing to build out what we think is the right campaign architecture. And as I have said, on both those campaigns, we're going to make sure they're right before we have what I'd describe as a formal launch. 

 And I'm not in a position right now to put timing on that. It will be as soon as they're ready. 

 Now the business is responding nicely with the marketing efforts we've put out there. And so I have confidence that when we get the campaigns correct, that will simply accelerate the trends we're already seeing. 

 CAROLINE LEVY (ph): Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Mark Greenberg (ph) of Deutsche (ph) (inaudible). 

 MARK GREENBERG (ph): Thank you. 

 Gary, first would you please clarify the effect of the Philippines on shipments as they trailed case volumes in the first quarter? And maybe Mary, you could elaborate on what kind of revenue trends we would expect over the next few quarters as a result of that? 

 And then also, if you could give us a little more detail on the impact that consolidating the German bottler had, just that impact alone, on the SG&A trends, that would be very helpful. Thank you. 

 MARY MINNICK: Yeah, as I said, excluding the Philippines, Asia growth was still 8.5 percent. And in terms of what to expect, we are doing what we need to do to get this business optimally positioned for the long term. And that means significantly reducing the number of wholesalers, improving the quality of wholesalers, restructuring credit terms, reducing accounts receivable, et cetera. And like I said, that will take place throughout the year. It will be the end of the year before that process is finalized. 

 GARY FAYARD: Mark? Gary. 

 I guess I would follow up a little bit on the Philippines as well and say that with pretty healthy volume growth globally and really held down only by the economic crisis in Latin America, the really encouraging thing is that the Philippines, even though we bought the Cosmos brands, Mary and her team are now doing the right -- taking the right long-term moves for the business. And there is no acquired growth, if you will, in our numbers from Cosmos. 

 Now I think we'll agree that in certain parts of the world, there is some lift because of Easter shifting from the second to the first quarter. But there is really no real lift coming out of Cosmos. So really underlying good organic growth around the world and, I think, strong growth. 

 Relative to the question around SG&A, I think you'll see on a reported basis, I think we were up about seven percent. On a reported basis, that is coming because of consolidation, not only of SG&A expenses from the German bottler, but as well the Brazil bottler. You also have Odwalla and Norway-Sweden bottlers. 

 If you take all of those out and backed year on year, SG&A is down one percent for the quarter on an apples to apples basis. 

 MARK GREENBERG (ph): Thank you. 

 And just as follow up, could you talk about runaway trends, apples to apples, for what you're seeing in terms of media rates? Any firm up in the ad market, potentially having impact there? 

 GARY FAYARD: I think that's probably more of a question I think you're talking about North America more. 

 MARK GREENBERG (ph): Right. 

 GARY FAYARD: Jeff? 

 JEFFREY DUNN: Clearly, the ad market in terms of demand has picked up as the economy has picked up. We went into the upfront. We bought the upfront. So we, from that standpoint, locked in a portion of our media budgets and were still out in the spot market. 

 But relative to our budget, we're right there where we expected to be. So we don't see any impact. As we get closer into June, July, we'll start looking at the upfront for next year. And that will be interesting to see what happens. 

 But the general situation is that supply continues to outstrip demand. And I think it's still a fairly weak media market play. 

 MARK GREENBERG (ph): Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Andrew Conway, Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 ANDREW CONWAY (ph), CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you very much, operator. 

 Gary, a couple of questions on gallon shipments versus unit case results. Could you talk a little bit about do you expect the catch-up in the business to be spread evenly over the second, third and fourth quarters? Were there any regions of the world where gallons actually did run ahead of unit cases? And if you could elaborate just a little bit more on the country mix effect in the quarter and your outlook there, please? 

 GARY FAYARD: Sure. Thanks, Andrew. 

 A couple of things. First, relative to gallons versus unit cases, I would expect to see gallons start running ahead of unit cases across the remaining three quarters of the year so that gallons are catching up with cases over the remaining course of this year. And so it really is timing. 

 Gallons really were behind cases generally across all regions of the world. The only thing I would say is that, relative to country mix, gallons were significantly below cases even with lower case results relative to Argentina. That is the planned reduction because when you go through the kind of economic crisis that has occurred in Argentina, you want to manage that and you want to manage all of your inventories. So that was a planned reduction in Argentina just around that economic crisis. 

 Additionally, you may remember, we talked about we actually changed the supply point and reopened a concentrate plant in Argentina last fall. 

 ANDREW CONWAY (ph): Right. 

 GARY FAYARD: Anticipating that something might happen in Argentina and we needed to be locally based. That in fact allowed the inventories to go down a little bit as well. But that's the real case, if you will, that's kind of structural and economic. But relative to the rest of the world, pretty much across the world, is all timing. And we would expect to see it coming back in line. 

 ANDREW CONWAY (ph): Thank you. 

 (audio-gap) 

 UNIDENTIFIED: . . . your guidance is the $.37 and not the $.40. Is that correct? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yes, that's correct. And in fact, just to be clear, yes, because the $.40 would be a currency neutral number. The $.37 would be a recurring number. And the first call range that's out there is a recurring number. And currency has already been taken out of it. So the $.37 would compare to what the first call range is. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Yes. I just wanted to make sure. And can you bridge the gallon shipment number of up one to the revenue number when you have all the currencies and mix and structural changes and everything else? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yes. And basically, I would think about it this way. Your revenues are up three, I believe. You've got one in gallons. You've got, if you will, net-net, a couple of points in pricing. And then you've got some structural change that is basically offsetting the negative currency that comes down to three. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: So currency -- the gallons are up one, pricing was up two and structural and currency offset each other? 

 GARY FAYARD: Structural and currency. And you've got a little bit of mix in there, probably a point or so of mix. So you've got gallons up one, pricing up two, currency probably a negative, I'd say, five or six. And then you've got structural, probably a plus seven or eight. And then you've got a little bit of mix that will be one to two, somewhere in there. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Fair enough. And just another clarification. The change of accounting for goodwill, how much of that helps equity income? 

 GARY FAYARD: Is helping equity income? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: The change in accounting for goodwill. Forty -- Jeff? Larry. I think, just bear with me, $39 million is helping equity income on the FAS 142 implementation. So it would be $13 million. If you had applied it to the prior year, you would have -- essentially, the prior year equity income would have been higher about $39 million. And then also, had you applied FAS 142 to the prior year, SG&A would have been lower by $13 million. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Got you. So again, it was a $39 million benefit in the quarter. Is that correct? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Correct. I mean, on last year's number, prior year number, it would have been $39 million higher. So that's the exact number. Correct. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Okay. All right. I just wanted to get an apples to apples. And just finally, what was marketing in the quarter? I know that SG&A was down by a percent. What was marketing in the quarter? 

 GARY FAYARD: Marketing is affected by two things first. Remember that we did that pretty large reclassification of a lot of marketing of what you saw. That was the $520 million in last year's marketing line that went up to deductions from revenue. 

 Relative to the marketing line itself, two things happened. It's down slightly for the quarter. Some of that is because of this reclass and some growth in marketing with our customers. But the other is that in the strategic growth initiative agreement that we entered into with Coca-Cola Enterprises that you'll remember we talked about at length in our last call, a lot of funding out of that agreement last year was classified in marketing and this year will actually be up in the deductions from revenue line, which is causing a quarter to quarter shift as well. 

 That is going into CCE for local marketing. And while we won't show it -- we'll show it as a deduction. It will show up as marketing over at CCE. And that's why you see a slight decrease for the quarter. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Okay, fair enough. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Marc Cohen of Goldman Sachs. 

 MARC COHEN (ph), GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi. I have two questions, one for Gary and then just one sort of more broadly in terms of volume growth. The mix of volume growth is three percent carbs, 22 percent non-carbs. The non-carb growth here continues to be probably well ahead of what many of us expected. 

 Can you talk about, as you look out across the year and then sort of into next year, how you see those two different product areas behaving? In other words, I'm looking for some insight about drivers that may make the carb business accelerate. And can you keep this non-carb business growing at over 20 percent rate? What are your thoughts on that? 

 And then I'll come back and I have an accounting question really for you, Gary. 

 JEFFREY DUNN: Marc? Jeff. Let me try to talk about it at least relative to my region of the world. I don't think there is any question that we can continue on a worldwide basis to drive strong, non-carb growth. In fact, that's our strategy. We've only really just started, in the last two years, to build the capabilities to do that. And that's translating, I think, into very good results. 

 With CSDs, you know, marketing and innovation clearly is what's going to drive it. And the thing I think everyone needs to keep in mind is we're continuing to address some of the economic imbalance which manifested itself mostly in CSDs with the bottlers, in order to make sure that we've got a long-term healthy system. 

 And so those things are impacting -- you know, Brazil is a good example -- some short-term volume growth, but I think putting us in a position to sustain long-term growth. And so I think there are very different drivers in CSDs right now, vis a vis non-carbs. But I think we're doing the right thing in both cases for long-term cash flows. 

 MARC COHEN (ph): All right. 

 Gary, you talk about this reduced tax rate to 27 percent. And I'm wondering if, in order to understand the sustainability of that, which you emphasize quite clearly, some of this has to do with reducing amortization expense and sort of the tax rate that was applicable to the amortization expense. Can you actually sort that out for us, how much of the amortization that you're no longer expensing was tax deductible on both the operating line and on the bottler line? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yeah, in fact, at the pre-tax line, how about if I take you to just pre-tax? 

 MARC COHEN (ph): Okay. 

 GARY FAYARD: The decrease in the income tax rate that we talked about in January when we said we could take the tax rate down to 27.5 percent and maintain that rate for the foreseeable future, that was all pretty much cash-related taxes. The FAS 142 impact, there is a little bit of FAS 142. But the real FAS 142 impact is this additional half point decrease that we're talking about today. 

 As we finalized -- and in fact, without going into it, it was a very complicated tax calculation because you have to attach the calculation basically everywhere you had goodwill around the whole world and look at every country's tax structures, et cetera. But that half point benefit that we announced today, or a penny a share over the year, is a non-cash benefit. 

 The rest of it was pretty much all cash benefit. And we're very comfortable that not only will we maintain the $100 million in cash savings per year from the lower tax rate but that we'll be able to maintain the 27 percent rate as a sustainable rate for the next three to five years. 

 MARC COHEN (ph): Why are you so comfortable about that? fayard: Because as we look out at our business plan, but as well as some very good tax planning, we have -- and I think I talked some about it in January -- but we have been doing a lot of tax planning around our tax rate for the last couple of years. And we're really now seeing it come to fruition. 

 It's really kind of like, as the operators talked about, the things you're starting to see this business really respond in this quarter and really seeing the results coming through, taxes are the same kinds of things. We've gotten tax audits around the world up to date. We've built a new concentrate plant at a tax-advantaged location. We've done a lot of work around this to really be able to now see the fruits of our labor, to be able to take the rate down and hold it. 

 MARC COHEN (ph): Okay, thanks. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Marc. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Alec Patterson (ph) of Dresdner. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph), DRESDNER: Yes, good morning. 

 Just two questions. One, I need a little clarity. I may be misreading this with all the accounting stuff that was going on in the quarter. The interest expense line net, it's saying it's at net $12 million income. And I guess I just want to compare that to -- I've been looking at a handful of consensus models. And they seem to imply that the full year was to be a net $100 million interest expense. 

 Should we adjust for what this quarter is saying? And then I have another question. 

 GARY FAYARD: Yeah, Alec? Gary. We did have a net interest income for the quarter. We would expect it to turn around probably in the second quarter because we will be paying some dividends out about right now, in fact, and bringing that cash back to the U.S. When we do that, we've been earning some higher rates than what we've been paying in the U.S. So that's how we got that net interest income. 

 So interest will flip starting, I think, probably in the second quarter and will flip to interest expense for the rest of the year. And so I think what you're seeing is really kind of a timing and it will flip around as we move through the year. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): So you mean, for the full year, we should still feel that the $100 million net interest expense number is about right? 

 GARY FAYARD: It's probably $100 million. It might be a little bit less. I mean, I'm not giving up as I manage those lines on the P&L. But I would say, you're starting in a good place. But I will continue to try to get it down. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. I just want to make sure we weren't seeing a penny a quarter upside here. 

 GARY FAYARD: No, you're not. You're not. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. The other question is just, as I try to back out the impact of the consolidation, deconsolidation bottler stuff, it seems as if the SG&A to sales ratio stepped up year over year for the first quarter. And I guess I'm trying to get at the heart of what I believe to be some of the turnaround issues for Coca-Cola; and that is, when they get their volumes back in line, will they have enough traction such that their operating profit per case is at the right level? 

 And so I'm trying to get a sense here, at looking at that step up in SG&A to sales ratio as a question mark about the volume trend. What is going on with SG&A to sales? And do you think we're at the appropriate level? 

 GARY FAYARD: Yeah, well first, the consolidation of the bottlers does have a significant impact. And when you take those out so that you can look at it on an apples to apples basis, SG&A was actually down a percent on revenues being up three. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): No, no, no. You have to back out the revenues of the bottlers too. 

 GARY FAYARD: Well, that's true. But where I was about to go was, remember that a lot of those SG&A numbers, you've got marketing that's really on a sales curve that's over the year, number one, on cases and not on gallons. Okay? 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Right. 

 GARY FAYARD: So we've got more expenses in the quarter for marketing relative to our unit case increase of five percent. But our revenues, which are off of gallons, which were only up one. And so as you see those gallons catch up with cases during the remainder of the year, you'll see the ratio you're talking about going back down. 

 So I think SG&A is very well under control and so issues there at all. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay. So it's just the flip of what happened last year. 

 GARY FAYARD: Yeah, exactly right. 

 ALEC PATTERSON (ph): Okay, great. Thanks, Gary. 

 GARY FAYARD: Thanks, Alec (ph). 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The last question comes from John Fouche (ph) of J.P. Morgan. 

 JOHN FOUCHE (ph), J.P. MORGAN: Thanks, good morning. 

 A question for Mary. Mary, we've been hearing a lot about competitive launches, particularly in the tea segment in Japan. Can you give us an idea, in terms of the competitive landscape there? And also, how long do you think it will be before we get an idea whether some of these new competitive products have really gained traction in the market? 

 MARY MINNICK: Well, as you know, the major launch period for most of the teas is in the February-March time period. So most of us are out there with our entries right now. 

 We did, despite cycling the launch of Marocha last year, which was a huge success for us, we managed to cycle those numbers. And as I said, first quarter tea growth was in excess of five percent, which is pretty good. 

 The good news there is we've got a pretty balanced portfolio now. We have a strong green tea entry because you know that's where most of the action was last year. So Marocha is holding its own in the green tea category. 

 We've completely repositioned Sokenbicha, which has been our long-term leader in the tea category for quite a while. We launched Chaho (ph) to compete in the non-sugar tea category again. We're going to follow up with kind of a version of tea called Love Body in another couple of weeks. 

 So I think we finally have more eggs in our basket this time. Before, we used to just have Sokenbicha as our primary tea competitor. And now we have Marocha. We have Chaho (ph). We have Love Body coming up. So we have a pretty good portfolio I feel good about. 

 But I think probably by July and August, we'll know who the winners and losers are. It generally only takes a couple of months in Japan. 

 JOHN FOUCHE (ph): Great, thanks. 

 GARY FAYARD: Well, I would like to thank you all for joining us this morning. And we look forward to speaking with you again soon. 

 Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call with the Coca-Cola Company. Audio playback is available via the company's website at www.coca-cola.com. You may now all disconnect. Thank you. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gsocc : Soccer | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nrgn : Routine General News | ntra : Transcript
   RE
africaz : Africa | asiaz : Asia | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4g002yk
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q4  2001 The Coca-Cola  Company  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
3,207 words
   PD
29 January 2002
   ET
03:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Larry Mark, Director of Investor Relations   . Doug Daft, Chairman and CEO   . Gary Fayard, Senior VP and CFO   . Bryan Dyson, Vice Chairman and COO   . Steve Higher (phonetic), Executive Vice President and President     of Coca-Cola ventures   . Sandy Allen, President of Operations in Europe, Eurasia and     Middle-East   . Jeff Dunn, President of the Americas Group   . Mary Mimmeck (phonetic), President of Asia Group 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Very good growth in the non-carbonated beverage business at 22%. Also, good results from multiple marketing efforts.  Q+A focus: Various topics such as bottling partners, volume growth and marketing effectiveness. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data from Call  1) EPS for Year = $1.60 2) EPS for Quarter = $ 0.37 

 A. Operational Review (D.D)   1. 2001 results shows underlying financial and operating strength      as reflected in the EPS growth and free cash flow.   2. In 2001, the commercial beverage industry worldwide grew at 3% .   3. Achieved 4% unit case volume growth in spite of challenging      economic circumstances around the globe.   4. Focused on outpacing industry growth on all profitable      categories.   5. Growth of 62% in water, well above the global industry average      of 9%. In juices and juice drink category, a growth of 18% ahead      of the industry average of 5%. 13% growth in sports drinks, with      the industry growth rate at 7%.   6. Overall, the non-carbonated beverage business grew at 22% and      expect this growth to continue at 2002. 7. Carbonated soft drinks grew at 2%, equal to the industry and have plans to accelerate in this area.   8. KO will improve performance by continuing to focus on key      strategic priorities and on their execution.   9. In the carbonated soft drinks business, Diet-Coke and Fanta are      both growing at 6%. Diet Coke with Lemon contributed to incremental growth in 4Q in the US.   10. Sugar Coca-Cola and Sprite will be driven by a number of strong      marketing platforms.   11. KO have expanded non-core carbonated portfolio from 1.6b unit      cases to 2.2b unit cases a year and it now contributes 13% of      global volume.   12. Next strategic priority is increasing the systems profitability      and capability to grow with bottlers.   13. KO system of franchise bottlers is the best of its kind in the      world and the best way for KO to go to market.   14. The financial health and success of bottling partners is a      critical component in the ability to build and deliver leading      brands. 

 B. Outlook 2002 (D.D)   1. Continue to outpace industry growth. Continually examining      tactics to adjust to the day-to-day conditions within each      market.   2. It is reasonable to expect that KO may be on the lower end of      the long term range of 5% -6% volume growth.   3. 2002 volume growth expectations are based upon forecasts which      show an improvement in economic conditions in the back half of      the year.   4. KO will be able to manage all parts of the business to deliver      strong earnings growth for the coming year. 

 C. Financial Review (G.F)   1. Focused on taking a portfolio approach across markets and      directing investment to the highest growth area.   2. In 2001, ongoing earnings increased approx. 10% on a currency      neutral basis.   3. The impact of the stronger USD reduced operating income by      approx. 5% during the year.   4. Generated over $4b in cash from operations, and after      reinvestment in the business, KO generated over $3b in free cash      flow.   5. Dividend increased 6% last year and allocated $255m to the      repurchase of company stock. Expect share repurchase activities      to increase into 2002.   6. Return on capital is 27% and return on equity is at 38% and expect both of these returns to continue improving over the coming year.   7. Outlook for 2002 currency neutral earnings have not changed and      anticipate 2002 EPS will grow in with accordance with long-term      objectives of 11% to 12%, from a base EPS amount that excludes      the 2001 incremental marketing activities.   8. Expected negative impacts from currency in 2002, including the      recent devaluation in Argentina is approx. $0.08 to $0.10.   9. Reported results in 2002 will be impacted by the adoption of the      new accounting standard 142, which relates to accounting for      good will and other intangible assets. This cumulative effect of      this adoption will results in non-recurring, non-cash adjustment      in 1Q02 of approx. $1bn.   10. Adopting this standard will results in a reduction in 2002      amortizations expense of  goodwill and intangibles of approx.      $60m for the company and an increase in equity income of approx.      $150m. The total affect is about $0.06 per share additions to      income.   11. Also, in Jan. 02, implementing other accounting standard which      will require that certain selling expenses to be reclassified as      deductions from revenue and estimate that approx. $2.6b of      payments made in 2001 to bottlers and customers which was      previously classified as SG+A,  will be reclassified as a      deduction from revenue, with no impact on operating income from      this standard.   12. Current first call estimates for 2002 EPS range from $1.70 to      $1.82 but these estimates have not been adjusted for the      guidance issued today concerning the new standards on accounting      for goodwill and intangibles. The adjusted new range with the      addition of $0.06 from amortization benefit would be $1.76 to a      $1.88.   13. Comfortable with the adjusted range of expectations but      encourage each analyst to consider all of the above items when      they develop their EPS estimates for 2002. 

 D. Summary (D.D)   1. KO is generating positive momentum and leading the industry in      growth in all key beverages categories worldwide. 2. Continue to improve strategic and financial position as is reflected in today's announcement.   3. Well positioned to manage through the current environment and      deliver growth well in the future. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. (Andrew Conway, CSFB)  Talk about the effectiveness of the $298m in marketing and also talk  about the evolution of building brands through marketing  communications and where would you like to go with that in the  future? 

 A.  Approx. $300m in incremental marketing in 2001. That money was spent  in the US, Germany and Japan, and has some remarkable results from  those investments. Relative to N. America, we spent the money on 2Q,  3Q and 4Q. We grew 3-3 and 4 in Oct. and Nov, but that tailed off in  Dec. because we did not cycle some couponing activity in the year before. But generally speaking, after 2 years of relatively flat growth in bottle-can, we accelerated business and that is the  ultimate measure of the marketing investments. Still making progress  on Coke and Sprite. The new work on Coke, which will debut in the  Olympics, is right in the brand space we are looking for. The  marketing investment is paying off. New campaigns for Coke and  Georgia Coffee in Japan. The results were positive. Coke had the  highest growth in 10 years. We put it behind new advertising and  Harry Potter , the brand Coke was up 5% in the quarter and for Dec.,  we grew 9%. Georgia Coffee was voted the best new campaign of the  year. Volume for Georgia grew 4.5% in 4Q and 6% in Dec. That kind of  money does not need to be repeated because those were launches. The  campaigns were so successful that we can do more strong but  maintenance levels this year. Then we will put our money behind new  products. Marketing was a real win for Japan. In Germany, in the  year 2000, the core brand declined by 4% by the end of 2001, we had  growth of 1% in brand Coke. We put the money behind equity building.  Particularly through advertising and promotions. All of these have  been successful. If you take the YonY 5% improvement in growth on brand Coke, we look at that as satisfactory. We put a lot of  emphasis on our relationships with consumers, customers etc. Coke is  the no. 1 retail brand in Africa, UK, Australia, and the awards we  have won for advertising. The enormous progress we have made with  focus on strategic principles. The CSD business led by Coca-Cola, is  the emphasis we have and continue to have. Always continue to  achieve. Emphasis on North American markets are going to continue  with implications for the total growth in the compan 

 Q2. (Caroline Levy (phonetic), UBS Warburg)  Can you talk about the overall volume in the quarter in Germany and  is there a turn around coming there? And also, your tax rate maybe  coming down, should we raise estimates for that? 

 A.  German division account was 16% and is no.1 European division for sales volume. From the operating profits stand point, the German division ranks 4th in the European business units. Volume growth was positive in Oct. and Nov. and in  Dec we took the decision to reduce container deposit by 50%, on returnable packages which account for over 50% of the business to be competitive with other suppliers and  to remove a serious constraint to volume growth. This reduction in  deposit prices caused a certain amount of destocking in the trade in  Dec. but that has been recovered in Jan. If we did not do that, we  would have had 1% growth in Germany in 4Q. Optimistic about growth  in Germany in 1Q02. We also now have a control agreement over our  major bottler accounting for about 70% of the volume in Germany.  Expecting more alignment between the bottler and our system in  Germany. We do believe that through effective tax planning , we will  be able to reduce tax to 27.5% in 2002, that is a reasonable range.  We will be able to hold the rate for the foreseeable future.  Relative to the items under operating income, we had very good  performance from the treasury operations. Very good job in terms of  interest rates income. Do not anticipate that they will be able to  duplicate that in 2002. Our view would be that as we manage all the  lines under operating income, I view those together and they will  offset each other. 

 Q3. (Mark Greenberg, Deutsche Banc.)  Talk about the new campaigns in CSDs, water, non-carbonates and do  you see the water category as brandable? 

 A.  Water category in the US, we can build a brand with the Desani. This  brand is clearly connecting with the consumer. The total brand marketing in going to connect including package and product innovation. We are going to remain competitive by employing rational pricing strategies. We expect another strong year in Desani. 

 Q4. (Mark Greenberg, Deutsche Banc.)  The new incremental media behind Desani is probably not likely to  jump? 

 A.  We are going to remain competitive. Most of the spending will be to  continue to reinforce the core position of the brand. Got some interesting product development. In Desani, we started the year as  no. 6 and last year we finished at no. 2. We are very fast growing. 

 Q5. (Mark Greenberg, Deutsche Banc.)  Talk about the margin opportunity relative advertising and media in  2002? 

 A.  See advertising market to continue to be attractive for us as buyers  for at least the next year. We see this as a wonderful market environment as we take out our incremental marketing investment because we are getting more TRPs without paying the price we paid a season and a half ago. As a result, our effective reach with out the incremental spending is great or in some cases greater than any  other circumstance. 

 Q6. (Mark Greenberg, Deutsche Banc.)  What are you seeing in terms of rates and net buys and what the  migration in the local buys can do for you? 

 A.  You got to do that market by market. On the whole, high single digits to double digit opportunity is not unfair. 

 Q7. (Mark Cohen, Goldman Sachs)  Can you tell us where the business softened up and what does that  mean in operating profit terms? 

 A.  It is a challenging environment. Largest example would be Argentina.  The impact of Argentina will be about $0.01 to $0.02 per share and  that is included in our 8% to 10% that we disclosed in our release.  We are managing that market and we are using lessons learned from  Turkey.  Argentina can be expected to be down this year. We are going to get a little lift from Cosmos. Started picking up little volume from Cosmos. It gets us back to net 5%-6% volume for the full year. Our view is in the lower part of that range. We manage the business for the long term. An example would be Germany. We have  being delivering good EPS growth 

 Q8. (Mark Cohen, Goldman Sachs)  Where did that 100m cases has become harder for you to get, outside  of Argentina? 

 A.  Argentina is going to be tough. Brazil is also tough but we may do OK there. Mexico will probably do a little bit better than 2001 and  is very tied to the US. Expect US to do better in 2002 than in 2001. Africa may have good year also. Would expect better results in  Europe, in Germany there was the drag but we have taken long-term  decisions there. There are some economic issues in Japan but we  planned for it. Japan will continue to deliver in the long terms  growth goals. China will start coming back this year. Adding up,  that is an optimistic view, but depends a lot on worldwide economic  conditions improving 

 Q9. (Jeff Canter (phonetic), Prudential Securities)  On the $1.80 to $1.84 range, does that include the lower tax rates? 

 A.  The first call range of earnings is very wide. Before the $0.06 from  FAS 142, $1.70 to $1.82. Everyone has a different model. We are giving items to consider as each of you adjusts your individual models. The $1.60 EPS in 2001 included a $0.02 gain and I would take that out to get to $1.58 and add the $0.08 of marketing and that  gives you $1.66 and you decide what the volume growth will be and  build from there . Recognize, if you take away $0.08 to $0.10 in  currency and add $0.06 from the impact of amortization of good will 

 Q10. (Jeff Canter (phonetic), Prudential Securities)  In that guidance, there is the tax change? 

 A.  Yes and also changes in equity income and increased interest expense. 

 Q11. (Jeff Canter (phonetic), Prudential Securities)  Can we some indication by region what you expectations are to get to  the 5% to 6% volume growth in 2002? 

 A.  We do not break out individual targets by individual regions. 

 Q12. (Bill Peckerelo (phonetic), Morgan Stanley)  Update on the progress about sharing the profit pie with other  global bottlers and is it enough to grow your marketing support in  line with volume growth? 

 A.  Not sure about which bottlers have come out with their results. So,  will not like to comment on individual bottlers. Going back through  the year, there was a positive direction from Hellenic Bottling Co.  Seen Pan Ancoaddress issues and show a positive trend and CCA come with positive goals for 2002. In terms of the major bottlers, they talked about positive impacts on volumes which means the marketing support is working and in terms of increasing returns. 

 Q13. (Bill Peckerelo (phonetic), Morgan Stanley)  Which factors are working on getting returns for the shareholders of  the bottlers? 

 A.  It's a combination of factors. We are working with all of our bottlers. Most of them are expecting to earn cost of capital and  most of them are saying that is achievable. We are assessing all  strategies and program in terms of system profitability. Very  encouraging dialogue between the bottlers and us about grabbing  operating efficiencies. That was not taking place 2 years ago. There  are a lot of margins to be grabbed systemically. That will help  bottlers help their return structure over time. 

 Q14. (Mark Swartzberg, ABN AMRO)  Can give us some color on metrics for imminent improvements in  results over the next 1 or 2 years? 

 A.  The most important thing is that the company has engaged in serious  dialogue about growing together meaning a total review of business  model including all aspects so that all bottlers can see positive  growth in years to come. Cannot emphasize this more, it is a business model approach. We see huge enthusiasm and commitment but that was not the case 2 or 3 years ago. It was a huge concern for them. The opportunities that they see in growing with this company  in a total beverage concept. I think  it is hugely powerful and I am encouraged by that 

 Q15. (Mark Swartzberg, ABN AMRO)  How much of the $1b is going to come out of the Coke goodwill from  your balance sheet? 

 A.  Quite a bit of it is coming out of Germany and there is quite a bit  from bottling investors. There are some charges coming from equity investees. 

 Q16. (John Suchet (phonetic), JP Morgan)  What lessons have you learned from your campaigns over the last  year? 

 A.  There are a handful of changes in how we market Coke. We lost our way little bit in the campaigns in the US. They were lacking in carbonated energy. We reclaimed some Coke space with the 'life  tastes good'. The Olympics advertising are bigger and creates  renewed connecting with the customers. Local programs will activate  sales in a ways advertising alone could not be expected to. We are  competing aggressively with the right space with right messages. I  think you are going to see us extend the natural Coca-Cola space and  focus incrementally on teens. The excitement is back and the image  of Coke is embraced by all. Some of the pricing strategies in the  late 90s eroded brand equity. We look back 25 years, and the growth  was driven not only by clear positioning and communication but also  by product and package innovation. The leadership position in Japan  is also a focus for 2002 to brand Coke communications in all its  platforms in N. America and on a global basis. Mentioned Japan  because it was unique and very Japanese. We have learned the  integration of a number of factors. It is the right pricing, the  right packages, the right channels, the right advertising, the right  promotions, and it is also the right integration alignment with your  bottlers. We are integrating those elements in the US this year 

 Q17. (Brian Spillane, Bank of America)  Are there plans for accelerated share repurchase in 2002 and what  makes you confident about this? 

 A.  We repurchased about $250m of our own stock in 2001. We will start the year with annual $750m. And end up the year at $750m to $1b  range. The reason we can do that is because of the significant free  cash flow from this business. Our belief is that free cash flow is  going to continue to accelerate in its growth in the years going  forward. We can use this cash for the share repurchase program. 

   CO
coca : The Coca-Cola Company
   IN
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
asiaz : Asia | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1t001aq
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) not hd=event and co=ko and hd=company
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
45
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:25 AM GMT
  
