 
•	 Q2 2016 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 AT&T Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 AT&T Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 AT&T Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2007 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2007 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2007 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2006 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2006 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2005 AT&T Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	  Q2 2002 AT&T Wireless Services Earnings Conference Call - Final  


 HD
 Q2  2016  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,474 words
   PD
21 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the 2016 AT&T second-quarter earnings call. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I'll now turn the conference over to your host, Michael Viola, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

MICHAEL VIOLA, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Kathy, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the second-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today.

Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. We're going to open with a summary of our results, and then we're going to spend a little bit of time providing a strategic update of our business. We thought this would be a great time to just take a step back and look at how we've repositioned our Company the last few years.

Let me remind you, our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. You can find the material at www.ATT.com/investor relations.

Now before I hand the call over to John, I need to call your attention to one more matter; that's the Safe Harbor statement which is on slide 3. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. They are subject to risks and uncertainties; results may differ materially; and additional information is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website.

I also need to remind you that we're in the quiet period for the FCC spectrum auctions, and thus we cannot address any questions about spectrum today. And so with that, I'll now turn the call over to AT&T's CFO, John Stephens.

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Mike, and hello, everyone, and thanks for being on the call today. It's been one year since we closed on our deal to acquire DIRECTV, and it's been a heck of a year.

We are hitting the mark with our synergy targets. Our cost synergies are ahead of plan. And we're about ready to take the wraps off some exciting new streaming opportunities that will expand our customer base and extend our video position.

We've added nearly 1 million US satellite subscribers since we closed the deal. We were excited a year ago when DTV first came on board, and that enthusiasm has only grown.

We'll talk more about that in just a few minutes; but now, let me begin by discussing our second-quarter results starting with our financial summary on slide 5.

Second-quarter consolidated revenues grew to $40.5 billion, largely due to our acquisition of DIRECTV. But we also saw growth in satellite, video, advertising, and IP services on a comparable basis. This offset pressure from lower year-over-year wireless equipment sales and foreign exchange.

Adjusted earnings growth continued. After adjustments, second-quarter EPS was $0.72 a share, up year-over-year and up about 7% year-to-date.

This quarter's growth comes even with about $0.03 of earnings pressure from our Mexico wireless operations, and we had more than $0.01 of pressure from compensation-related programs tied to our stock price. Most of this is from a success-based compensation plan we have for our bargained-for employees. We're pleased for our employees, all our employees, in that they have an opportunity to share in the success that they have helped create for our shareholders.

Margins also continue to be a solid story, thanks to our focus on profitability and our best-ever wireless EBITDA margins. We once again saw adjusted margin expansion on a consolidated basis and in every domestic business segment.

This solid performance helped drive strong cash flows. Operating cash flow was $10.3 billion, with free cash flow reaching $4.8 billion, up 8.4% year-over-year.

Our dividend payout ratio for the quarter was 61%, and year-to-date it's 73%.

Capital investment came in at $5.6 billion for the quarter and $10.3 billion year-to-date. We also continue to find ample demand and great rates in the securitization market to help us manage our next receivable. We received about $1.1 billion in the second quarter, or about the same as last year's second quarter.

Let's now take a look at our operations, starting with Business Solutions. Those details are on slide 6.

Total Business Solutions revenues were down slightly due to the sale of certain hosting operations and foreign exchange pressure. Solid wireless and strategic business service revenue gains helped offset lower wireless equipment sales and declines in legacy services.

Business wireless revenues were up 2%, with service revenue growth outpacing equipment declines. Margins also continued to expand thanks to business efficiencies and wireless revenue growth, offsetting lower wireline revenues.

Looking at the customer segments, small business operations continue to grow thanks to gains in wireless. Enterprise revenues were flat; however, if you adjust for the sale of our divested business [and] FX, that segment also continued to grow in the quarter.

Strategic business services continues to grow at a healthy clip, up more than $200 million year-over-year. That's up 8.4% on a reported basis; and when you adjust for FX, growth was 9%.

Strategic business services are now 36% of business wireline revenues. The growth of strategic business services and mobility is changing the revenue mix in Business Solutions. Those two areas now make up more than 70% of Business Solutions revenues. And if you look at total data in wireless, that's more than 80% of business revenues. So our transformation to next-generation products and services is well on its way in our business segment.

Now let's move to our Entertainment Group results on slide 7. On a comparative basis, we grew revenues in our Entertainment Group thanks to gains in satellite subscribers, broadband revenue, and advertising. This more than offset losses in legacy services while also overcoming the pressure from the record-breaking Mayweather-Pacquiao pay-per-view event in the year-ago second quarter.

We continue to see solid gains in broadband and advertising revenues. Broadband revenue was up nearly 7% in the quarter, with IP broadband revenues up 15%.

Advertising sales also continued its strong growth, up double digits year-to-date, and it's now more than a $1.4 billion annualized revenue stream. We're well positioned in this space, and we're looking to play a leading role in taking our ad offerings across all screens.

At the same time, we again saw continued margin expansion, which points directly to the benefits of the DIRECTV acquisition. Our margins on a comparable basis were up 90 basis points, and were up even more if you adjusted for the prior year pay-per-view event.

Our second-quarter customer video metrics were impacted by the usual seasonal pressures, but improved nicely over last year. Our satellite net adds continue to be robust, as we added 342,000 satellite subscribers in the quarter. More than 80% of our domestic video business is now on DIRECTV platforms.

Broadband net subscriber results also were impacted by seasonality, as we added 54,000 IP broadband subscribers in the quarter. When you include business subscribers, the Company added 74,000 IP broadband subscribers.

As we expected, this growth was below recent quarters, with second-quarter seasonality. But we expect IP broadband net adds to bounce back in the second half of the year.

Now, let's move to our US mobility results on slide 8. As a reminder, AT&T's domestic mobility operations are divided between the Business Solutions and consumer wireless segments. For comparison purposes, the Company is providing supplemental information for its total US wireless operations.

Increasing profitability and a growing subscriber base continues to be the story in our wireless operations. For the second straight quarter, we turned in a record EBITDA margin of 41.4%. Service margins were also a record, reaching nearly 50% in the quarter.

Both were up 130 basis points year-over-year. A sharp focus on cost efficiencies and fewer upgrades drove the margin expansion.

Equipment revenues were down due to a year-over-year increase in BYOD subs and a lower upgrade rate. Service revenues increased sequentially, but were down year-over-year.

At the same time, phone-only ARPU plus Next billing was up 2.5%, with average monthly billings growing to $70. This growth comes even as we see an increasing number of subscribers holding on to their devices longer after completing their scheduled Next payments. About half of our smartphone base is now on AT&T Next, but 75% of postpaid smartphone subscribers are on a no-device subsidy plan.

Postpaid churn came in strong, with its second-lowest-ever quarter at 0.97%. Postpaid phone-only churn was even lower, and smartphone churn was still lower. And even with the pressures from reseller, our total churn was very low at 1.35%.

Branded phone add increased in the quarter. Branded domestic phone net adds, both postpaid and prepaid, were up 185,000 thanks to strength in our Cricket brand.

We also continued to expand our valuable smartphone base, adding nearly 800,000 domestic branded smartphones in the quarter. And if you look at the chart on the lower left-hand corner of the slide, you can see that our overall phone base has more subscribers today than we did a year ago thanks to strength in postpaid and prepaid smartphones. And, our postpaid smartphone base by itself is up 1 million in the same time, as feature phones transitioned to smartphones.

We had another solid quarter in adding subscribers. Including our Mexico operations, we added 2.1 million new subscribers. That includes 1.4 million domestic wireless subs, with connected devices, branded phones, and tablets overcoming losses in reseller largely due to disconnects from our 2G network.

Prepaid net adds in the quarter were impacted by two events. First, we aligned our churn policy across our prepaid platform. This favorable impact was generally offset by the negative impact resulting from a network outage caused by a vendor's equipment.

As noted in our reseller numbers, we're starting to see some churn pressure associated with the planned shutdown of our 2G network at the end of this year. That will increase as we move closer to the shutdown. We'll manage through the process, and the cost savings from one less network to support will be meaningful; so will the additional spectrum available to redeploy.

Now let's look at our International operations. That information is on slide 9.

Let's start with Mexico. We continue to make significant progress in building our customer base and deploying our 4G LTE network. We added 742,000 wireless subscribers in the second quarter as we near the 10 million subscriber mark in the country.

Our LTE deployment also is on track. We now serve 65 million people in Mexico with our most advanced network and expect to reach 75 million by the end of this year. That brings our total North American LTE deployment to 380 million POPs.

Our rebranding to AT&T also continues to make progress. We now reach 61 cities with the AT&T brand, including our largest market of Mexico City.

Second-quarter revenue was up 13% sequentially, driven by equipment sales and wholesale revenues. Revenue growth was impacted by lower ARPUs as the competitive environment has intensified.

In Latin America, our DIRECTV operations continue to show revenue growth, up 8% sequentially. Revenues are being hampered by challenging economics; however, we did see subscriber growth, adding 87,000 video customers in the quarter, in part due to the Copa America soccer tournament.

But as you might expect, the earthquake in Ecuador did pressure our overall subscriber growth in Latin America. But even with these economic conditions, we continue to be profitable and generate positive cash flow from these operations for the quarter.

Now that we're midway through the year, let's take a look at how we are doing relative to the guidance we set out in January. That's on slide 10.

We're on track to meet or exceed each of the metrics we had laid out for you. Consolidated revenues are growing at a double-digit pace thanks to our acquisition of DIRECTV. This comes even with pressure from lower equipment sales and foreign exchange.

Adjusted EPS is up about 7% year-to-date, above guidance but in line with where we expected to be at this time. Consolidated margins are stable, as margin expansion in our domestic operations is offsetting investment pressure from Mexico.

We are focused on growing our valuable subscriber base across our business, including Mexico, where growth has been strong. We are willing to make additional investments to gain quality customers.

Capital investment is trending to the low end of our guidance at its current pace. And we are ahead of plans with free cash flow.

Dividend coverage for the first half of the year was 73%. We continue to feel confident that we will meet or beat our free cash flow guidance for the year.

Now, I'd like to spend the remainder of our time providing a strategic update on our business. That begins on slide 12.

As Mike mentioned, we have often updated you on our Company's strategy and direction. But today, we'd like to take a longer look at how we have uniquely positioned AT&T to lead in the rapidly evolving world of communications and video entertainment.

Our goal is to be the world's premier integrated communications company for both consumers and businesses, and we plan to do this in the most cost-efficient way possible. This strategy did not happen overnight. It has been part of every business decision we've made for many years.

No one else has our portfolio of assets. No one else has our cost structure opportunity. And no one else can offer the integrated solutions that we can.

Behind all this is a solid financial foundation that gives us the strength and flexibility to invest in our business while returning value to shareholders. This includes our strong liquidity position, our market-based capitation and benefit plans, and thoughtful debt management.

For example, we successfully negotiated workforce contracts that are market-based but also encourage employees to keep our owners' interest in mind, while rewarding them when we succeed for shareholders. We also have a world-class Board of Directors who provide great insight while at the same time challenge us. This makes us stronger and helps us navigate through these transformative times.

We are uniquely positioned in this industry. All of this will be critical as mobile broadband, high-speed connectivity, and entertainment come together.

Let's first talk about the connectivity building blocks that we have assembled on slide 13. Since the introduction of the first smartphone, we've seen unprecedented growth in mobile data traffic. Even more incredibly, we expect that to continue to grow at a very strong pace.

To meet this demand, we undertook several strategic initiatives to improve the capacity of our network for today and the years to come. Here is what we've accomplished.

First, we ratchet up our investment cycle with Project VIP. This was crucial to getting the high-quality, high-capacity network we have today.

Our 4G LTE network deployment was accelerated. Fiber backhaul was deployed and cell sites built. We now have almost 70,000 cell sites, thousands more than our largest competitor, and our move into the Mexico wireless market further expands our LTE reach.

We also drove fiber deeper in our wireline network. We added more than 1 million business locations to our fiber network, and we expanded our IP broadband footprint to more than 60 million customer locations.

The next phase of driving fiber into our network is our GigaPower deployment. Over the next few years we expect to preach at least 12.5 million customer locations with our gigabit broadband service. We now have more than 2.2 million fiber-to-the-home customer locations, and we expect to reach 2.6 million or more by the end of the year.

Our already dense wireless network and expanding fiber footprint puts us in an excellent position as we move to more small-cells and 5G. We have already filed patents, trials are already underway, and testing is ongoing. When 5G is ready to roll, we will be ready as well.

At the same time we launched VIP we moved to expand our spectrum portfolio. We have about 150 megahertz of spectrum in our portfolio today, including 40 megahertz of relatively untapped AWS and WCS spectrum. We have the best, most balanced spectrum portfolio in the industry.

Adding spectrum is the most effective way to add capacity. This year we expect to add 35,000 LTE carriers compared to the 18,000 deployed last year. We also continue to make smaller spectrum deals to round out our coverage and redeploy spectrum once dedicated to 2G and 3G.

Last week's move by the FCC to make high-frequency radio spectrum available for 5G wireless service is another step forward to provide even more spectrum. And while we are not going to elaborate, AT&T has applied to be a participant in the broadcast spectrum auction and has also submitted a bid in the FirstNet process that is currently underway.

Our network transformation is now pivoting to software-defined networking, or SDN. With SDN, we are virtualizing network functions that used to require dedicated fixed equipment and software. SDN gives us flexible, dynamic, and smart network capabilities.

We ended last year with about 5% of our network functions virtualized and expect to reach 30% by the end of this year. We are on path to achieve 75% network virtualization by 2020.

SDN also provides cost savings which supports our drive to an industry-leading cost structure. Let's discuss that on slide 14.

Having an industry-leading cost structure helps us expand margins and grow free cash flow. We now have a line of sight to continue margin improvement as well as reaching our goal of $20 billion in free cash flow.

This is what we need to do to reach those goals. Step one is achieving the cost synergies from our DIRECTV acquisition.

We are on track to achieve $1.5 billion-plus run rate synergies with DTV by the end of this year. That puts us well on our way to hit our projected $2.5 billion-plus run rate savings by the end of 2018.

Step two is our work to drive efficiencies with Project Agile. This work includes our efforts to serve customers digitally, automating service delivery, streamlining operations, and other cost-efficiency initiatives. Our goal is to generate a $3 billion run rate in cost savings, and we are moving past the midway point of making that happen.

We also have not been shy about exiting nonstrategic businesses that don't fit our margin expansion profile. That includes global hubbing and, more recently, certain hosting operations. Obviously, that reduces revenue, but it increases overall profitability.

Finally, we must continue to lead the industry in our move to software-defined networking. We are virtualizing functions that previously required dedicated solutions, dedicated hardware, dedicated software, dedicated teams.

This virtualization manifests itself into real, sustained cost savings throughout the network and the business. That's savings in both our capital expenditures in our cash operating expenses. It also gives customers greater control of their net services, more agility and simplicity in the way they do business with us, as well as better value on ours and our customers' hardware investments.

Now let's look at something that really separates us from the rest of the industry: our integrated solutions approach. That's on slide 15.

While it starts with connectivity and cannot be sustained without an effective cost structure, you must have assets to create products customers want, delivered where and how they want them, to be successful. We've talked about these assets, so let's bring this point home.

We are in every major market in the US with reach around the world. We have a 4G LTE footprint that covers 380 million people in North America. We have more fiber connecting more buildings and more business customer locations than anyone else. That's in footprint and out, which helps us compete today but also positions us very well for 5G.

And we're also the biggest TV provider in the world, and we're about to introduce an over-the-top product that we believe will be a game-changer. DIRECTV Now is scheduled to launch later this year, and we expect the millions of people who don't now subscribe to a video service and prefer a streaming option will be impressed.

At the same time, no one can match what we offer business customers. We have the ability to serve all business customers from Fortune 1000 companies to the local ice cream shop on the corner. And no matter how big or how small the business is, almost every conversation with business customers begins with mobility and security, and that is where we excel.

When you take our extensive fiber network, then layer on SDN, security and mobility, and new software-enabled services, you have the premier integrated business services company. We believe we have a significant competitive advantage to use our connectivity and cost structure to offer integrated solutions to our customers.

Whether you are in the C-suite of a major company or the master suite of your own home and anywhere in between, AT&T delivers. We have a robust, dynamic, and attractive set of products, architected on a network that is flexible and able to quickly adapt to the future. That's table stakes if you want to be the world's premier integrated communications company, and that is exactly what we expect to be.

Now, before we get to your questions, allow me to quickly summarize. And that's on slide 16.

We are very confident in our unique strategy. We have the assets we need, and we are executing on our plan.

Our DIRECTV cost synergies are hitting targets. Project Agile is on track, and we are ahead in the move to software-defined networking. All this drives us towards an industry-leading cost structure.

But we're most excited about what lies ahead. We have a dedicated and skilled group of people working for us, from the crews staffing our work centers to the leaders in the boardroom, we have a team of professionals focused on making AT&T the world's premier integrated communications company.

Our differentiated position opens the door for some game-changing opportunities, and we're ready to walk through it. We're confident we can execute on our strategy and continue to build value for our shareholders. With that, let's go to your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, guys. Thanks so much for taking the questions. John, it looks like, in terms of the guidance that you walked through on slide 10, you are tracking ahead of where you thought you'd be at this point in the year. As we look to the second half, could you talk about the major variables that would maybe swing you back down towards more the base-case expectation for the year versus the or-better part of the guidance that you were discussing?

Then second, I was wondering if we could just touch on this issue of the economics of postpaid sub losses versus prepaid sub gains? I guess you had about 319,000 prepaid gains versus 180,000 postpaid losses.

Could you talk about the relative economics of those two things? And are we looking at a net economic positive or negative trade-off when we look at that? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, David. Let me take the second question first. On the economics, so forth, the postpaid subs we're losing are a lot of feature phones. They are averaging about somewhere around $35, maybe a little bit less than ARPU and have costs associated that postpaid do with retaining them.

On the prepaid side, we're probably closer to a $41, $42, depending upon the specifics, average ARPU, and much less, very, very, very small subscriber acquisition cost, upfront cost, maintenance costs, by the very nature of being prepaid.

So from that standpoint, the economics are better, and it is being shown in our margins. When you look at our margins, total EBITDA margins or service margins, you can see the growth and you can see that level. That's a part of what's driving it.

So the economics are -- and we're running the business on a branded basis. We think of branded customers and try not to make distinctions on classification, really make distinctions on economics. And I think it's showing up in our profitability.

With regard to the variables in the second half, there's a lot of things that happen. There's some seasonality in the fourth quarter in our wireless business. In our video business, we'll have the NFL Ticket come out, and we'll have the launching of the DTV Now and some of the over-the-top offers. So we'll have a whole host of things going on.

I would just suggest to you we're very confident where we are at. We continue to do well, and I wouldn't suggest to you that there is anything necessarily unique or different about the second half of the year, just we're careful with our guidance and want to make sure that we meet or exceed it. So we feel very good about where we're at through six months.

DAVID BARDEN: All right. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks very much. A little bit along the lines of David's second question, when would you expect we'd see more integrated promotions for video and mobile services? And you've talked in the past about having some excess margin to give up to drive faster sub growth. Do you feel like you've been doing that already, or is that still pending? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Phil. First of all, we have been doing some promotions, some offers, some marketplace adjustments based on how we look at the marketplace. So some of that is already impacting our results, and we're still doing quite, quite well in margins with that.

Secondly, our first integrated product that I would refer you to is the 5 million customers who've already signed up who have a bundle of our in-home video product, whether it be U-verse or satellite, DIRECTV satellite, and our wireless. It's been successful. We've seen very positive results from our customers.

So it is going well. You will see us continue to push that offering as well as others.

And I would suggest you'll see more things come out as we roll out our over-the-top offerings and other aspects. But right now, we are seeing some improvement in our attach rate of IP broadband with our video sales, and that is improving as we see the trends for the last four or five months. And we would expect to see some continued positive bundling, if you will, of wireless and video as we've already seen 5 million people sign up for it.

PHIL CUSICK: John, you mentioned DIRECTV Now. What's the long pole for getting that out at this point?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think there's a whole host of activities going on. I would suggest to you it's this way. I believe that everything is moving well and along our timeline that we've targeted.

The biggest guidance piece on it is going to be -- we're going to want to make sure it comes out with high quality and high performance. So as we develop this and test it, that will determine its time frame. We'll want to make sure when it comes out it's the high-quality product.

If you think about the technology development, that's on track. If you think about the assets we need to provide, those have been acquired. Those are attractive.

You think about the contracts we need to get the stacking rights and digital rights, those are going well. It's just a matter of getting all of those things coordinated together, and then make sure it's the highest-quality product you can have at launch.

But we are confident in that process and feel good about targeting the end of this year to get that out.

PHIL CUSICK: Do you have a widespread beta product of that yet, even without all the content?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. We are going through various levels of testing of everything, but we're not going through a detailed public discussion of that. But as you can imagine, we're going through a variety of levels of testing of that.

But this is something we've been working on for a while, feel real good about.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Great; thanks. John, maybe pointing to the buildup of the $20 billion free cash flow on slide 14, looks like you're at about a $16 billion base in 2016 here. You've got another $1 billion in synergies, another $1.5 billion in Project Agile.

Is the rest come from virtualization over that period? If you could give us a little more detail on that.

And I would imagine you'll be paying some more taxes over time as well. So how does all that fit together to bridge us to that $20 billion number?

And then as you talked about in some previous slides, you're a little bit -- you've underspent the $22 billion bogey on CapEx a little bit here in the first half. Does that mean we have a downward bias to CapEx at this point? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, John. A couple things. One, if you think about the free cash flow and you think about the $15.9 billion that we started with last year, and you add in the $2.5 billion opportunity with DIRECTV, you add in the remainder of the $3 billion opportunity from Agile, and then you add in maybe a 1%, I'll say, as an illustrative reduction in capital intensity and some costs -- some cash operating expense savings, you can see that those three items there can get you well over $5 billion.

In addition, we expect to grow our EBITDA and grow our profitability of the business. So when you put those things together, it looks to be an achievable, realistic path from last year's $15.9 billion to a $20 billion number as a goal in the near future.

And so that's what we are looking at. That's how we build it up. We're not giving a prediction date on that, but we feel good about the opportunities to significantly grow free cash flow.

With regard to our CapEx, just want to be very straightforward in the sense that we are at $10.3 billion and on an annualized basis, that would come below the $22 billion. We'll continue, as I've said before, to invest as appropriate -- not towards a targeted $22 billion number, but rather towards what business cases make sense and when it makes sense for us to be in the market investing. Sometimes that causes quarters to be much heavier in CapEx, like we had in the fourth quarter last year; and other times, like in the first six months this year, we spend at a lower rate.

We're just being very careful with every dollar. But right now, the performance we've had for the first six months is a trend to on the low end of our guidance.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hey, thanks. Hey, John. Just maybe a couple things. First, going back a little bit on the postpaid handset side, it looks like obviously feature phones have come down dramatically over the past eight quarters or so. As that approaches a lower level, does that provide a tailwind to get postpaid phone additions back to a positive territory?

Obviously, you've got DTV cross-selling, DTV Now products rolling out, or over-the-top products rolling out. I presume that could also help.

Then just secondly on the video adds for the year, the anticipation there, is it that DIRECTV continues to ramp? It's been doing a great job, but is it that or is it U-verse becoming less of a headwind in the back half of the year to get to a positive video number?

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Mike. First of all, the postpaid handset side or on the handset side, we do think the 2G losses -- as we go through the year we'll see those. But getting past this year you'll see the opportunity to have a more positive impact because we're through that process.

Secondly, our feature phones, which include some 2G devices, but our feature phones are going down. And as they go down and then, if you will, legacy products', so to speak, impact on our results is lessened. Certainly we have a brighter opportunity, a more real -- a better opportunity to grow those customer bases.

And then third, the bundling. As we really get into the second half of the year and are able to do single-truck install, which may be bundling of video and satellite and broadband, but also that whole activity of bundling, as the longer, the more time our teams get to do it the better we'll get at it. And so from that perspective, we do think that will provide us an opportunity to grow more of wireless.

So all three of those things will help. And yes, we're optimistic about it.

But I will tell you also, it's really about the branded net adds and the economic net adds. It's not about any one category of net adds. It's getting those customers that are the most profitable, highest quality.

With regard to the video side, on a seasonality basis we usually do see less -- we see more pressure in the second quarter and the first half from the U-verse side and from -- and quite frankly, so has DTV in the past. So going forward, I would hope that we would see -- we would expect to see some improvement on both sides.

When you think about DIRECTV, things like the NFL Ticket Sunday and some of the other offers, as we see these trends of bundling improving and attachment rates improving, we feel really good about the opportunity to improve our trends and get to our goal of positive video net adds for the year.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good afternoon, John and Mike. John, if we can touch upon that bundling question a bit more, I mean, if we go back to last year at the analyst update post- the close of the DIRECTV deal, you had highlighted some potential areas for revenue synergies driven by some level of cross-pollination of your respective customer bases.

I was wondering: Where are you folks along that line? You had highlighted like there were, I believe, 15 million DIRECTV homes that don't have AT&T wireless, for example. Other opportunities seem to be broadband plus video offering.

Are you still at the early stages of that deployment? I'm just trying to assess what kind of runway you do expect from a bundling opportunity perspective.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, Amir, I would suggest we're at the early stages when you think about getting the workforce trained in all aspects of being able to cross-sell and do the bundling and do single-truck-roll installs and so forth. It takes a while.

We have that completed. We have that process. But even as they've all been trained and as they've all started to do it, it still takes some time, even with a great workforce like we have, to get really proficient at it.

And we'd expect to start seeing that, as we've said all along, show some benefit to the second half of this year. But once again, I would suggest to you the team's done a really good job of doing the bundling between wireless and the video products alone.

And getting 5 million of these customers to sign up for this bundled approach with regard to video and wireless is just the best proof I can offer you that we've already done -- they've already accomplished that this works and that we have a real opportunity to exceed our merger integration synergies. Because we'll have an opportunity to add revenues to those while most of those synergies were really focused on costs.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: That's very helpful. A follow-up if I may. If we look at the current US mobile competitive environment, one of your competitors notably instituted a price increase, which can somewhat imply a belief that the competitive landscape is not as pronounced as it once was. If we look at your service revenue trajectory in mobile, we still see some impact from stable declines in ARPU.

Is there a potential opportunity for adjusting pricing, particularly around bundled offerings or anything along those lines, that could provide some relief to the trajectory of service revenue there?

JOHN STEPHENS: Well, Amir, once again let me point you to a complete picture of that. As we mentioned in the prepared remarks, the ARPU's right at $70 on a per-customer basis when you take into account the total billings. Those are really impressive levels. Very good for us historically from any measurement, our straight ARPU prior to the equipment installment days, or in the most recent years with the equipment installment.

So on a monthly basis from our customers, we are doing very, very well with the revenue base.

Secondly, it is a competitive environment, and it will -- and it has been for years and it will remain that. We believe that we are doing well with that, and we think it's proven out in our margins and our profitability and our cash flows.

I will tell you just one side item that we mentioned in the prepared remarks. We had about 500,000 BYOD devices. We had customers walk in with 500,000 phones and said: Can we connect them to your network?

Those are all net adds. They don't show up in equipment revenue. And depending upon what package they show up, they'll show up in service revenues.

But they are really profitable. They are low cost. We love them.

That doesn't necessarily show up in your immediate look at the financials, but it is clearly showing up in our profitability and our margins. So I would ask you to focus on those items as well as our service revenues.

Specifically with regard to our service revenues, you've seen our additional piece of our customer base shift to Mobile Share Value. I think we went from about 64% up to 75%.

We did have some additional customers shift off of the -- shift to the no-subsidy plans, which impacted service revenues, and we continue to do normal promotions through some of the incentives, credits, free services, normal promotion activity. All of those things are impacting service revenues, as expected.

With regard to recent activities in the marketplace, we'll see how those play out. We're just focused on getting the best-quality customers and providing really great service.

Some of the changes we've seen give us reason for optimism. Many of the changes we're seeing give us reason to be real careful and watch how the market develops and be ready to prepare and lead, quite frankly, in a market with the performance that we've got.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great. Thanks for the incremental color.

OPERATOR: Jeff Kvaal, Nomura.

JEFF KVAAL, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTL: Yes. Thanks very much. I'd also like to add a competitive question to the mix, specifically of course the second half. The fourth quarter is a little bit more competitive.

Do you feel like you are going to be as competitive as you've been last year? Is the goal to increase the number or the mix of net adds that you retain relative to where you've been over the past couple years? Just in general how you feel about your subscriber base and your mix of net adds would be great.

Then secondarily, if there's anything you can share on where in your CapEx budget you have been able to do better -- whether it's labor or equipment or what have you -- that would be super helpful. Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Okay. Well, the second one first. On the CapEx budget, we've done well of in all aspects of it. A couple of things.

One, we've been able to -- because of our software-defined network we're starting to see a little bit of those savings. If you think about our buying capacity and the overall economic conditions, we've been able to get some volume pricing and some purchasing power benefits. Certainly, we're getting more efficient with what we do.

I will tell you, though, that one of the things I think people miss out on is that, because of the spectrum that we've invested in over the last, say, five years or so, we've got a lot of effective capital deployment that doesn't involve a lot of dollars. It involves deploying spectrum, and that's a really efficient way to deploy capacity.

So on a per unit of capacity, our dollars can be really efficient because of the spectrum portfolio that we have that we're putting in use. I think that's a real big benefit.

From a customer base perspective, we're very pleased with the subscriber base we have, whether it's the business subscriber base that we have, what we saw in the small business side and the growth there, whether we see it in the enterprise side. When you look at the consumer side, the prepaid business is growing well and, quite frankly, the margin improvement from Cricket is helping drive the margin improvement in the overall business of wireless. So that's great.

And then, of course, some of the Premier customers, the video space, are using our U-verse and our DTV services. So we feel great about our customer base.

With regard to that, we're willing to invest dollars to retain and attract additional quality customers, whether here in the United States or in Mexico and Latin America. We'll be focused on that, but we'll be careful with it.

I would suggest to you the characteristics, the titles we give those -- prepaid/postpaid, over-the-top, versus monthly subscription -- are less important as the economics of the profitability of those offers. And that's what we'll be focused on.

JEFF KVAAL: Okay, John. That sounds like you are perhaps expanding the range of subscribers that you might defend or target than you might have -- relative to last year, if that makes sense.

JOHN STEPHENS: Well, I'd say it this way. When your margins expand as much as ours have, 130 basis points on both EBITDA service and, for example, wireless, or in total margins, you have more room; and more customers fall within that profitability level that are appropriate.

JEFF KVAAL: That's well said. Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: That's really what's going on. The team's done such a great job expanding margins, they've created more room to be competitive. It's the team's credit.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. John, you noted that you're on track to deploy fiber to 12.5 million customer locations. You have 12.6 million IP broadband customers today. But there are 60 million homes in your wireline region that could get a broadband line.

So I'm curious, as you are doing the fiber deployment, how you're deciding which are the right homes to upgrade in terms of whether you should be simply upgrading existing customers, or how you determine whether there is a business case to go to some of those homes that you don't serve and deploy fiber there.

JOHN STEPHENS: There's two things that -- the first thing I'd tell you, Brett, is that the ability to build the fiber-to-the-home gives us -- it's a larger footprint than just the 60 million. So we can take the economics of going into some appropriate customer basis, whether it's an opportunity for real better economics, better profitability, so we have that business case process to it.

Secondly, I would tell you with regard to the FCC agreement, there is particulars within the agreement that allow us to build -- count so many greenfield builds, count so many more upgrades in the existing IP broadband footprint, to utilize in some cases multiple dwelling units, and then in many cases require some level or a significant level, I should say, of newbuilds. So we have to coordinate all of that, take all of that into consideration.

When you're done with that, you may still have some profitable builds that are at or above the 12.5 million commitment, and you may go ahead and build those. We'll see where that goes over time and we'll see where that leads us.

But the ability or the schedule to build is an economics activity, a business case activity with, of course, the opportunity to overbuild in some areas being probably more timely and less expensive. But that might be capped by some of the regulatory agreements that we have in place, and we're going to certainly be respectful of those.

But overall, it's a normal business case process in where we can serve our customers the best and get the best returns for them and us.

BRETT FELDMAN: Got it. Just as a follow-up to make sure I heard that right, I think you said that you are considering taking fiber outside of your traditional wireline region if the business case makes sense. Is that -- did I hear that correctly?

JOHN STEPHENS: We've already done it. We've already done it (multiple speakers) city. So I don't want to suggest to you that we haven't.

BRETT FELDMAN: How do you pick those markets? Are these places where maybe you've already done a lot of fiber for your LTE network, so it's a natural extension? Or are there other characteristics that tend to be appealing?

JOHN STEPHENS: Just customer characteristics, competitive situation, access to other facilities we've got to have. A whole collection of considerations, whether it's a technology corridor like Raleigh-Durham or other such considerations. But that's a normal business case process for us.

BRETT FELDMAN: Got it. Thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. Good evening, John. Going back to the presentation a year ago, one of the things that you said you were working on was a home media gateway, and I know there's a bit of product development in that. But perhaps you could just update us on how that's looking, when we might start to see that getting deployed.

And then there's a lot going on in Washington. Obviously you can't talk about the auction. But maybe you could just give us some of your perspective on some of the agenda items at the FCC around special access, set-top boxes, privacy, etc., and any exposure you see there. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. Set-top boxes just it's a -- we have commented on that. The industry has commented, and there's been significant support I think from Congress on that. So I think that we would expect -- we would hope -- we'd see people coalesce and we'll see some changes into what the initial FCC guidance was on that.

On the special access piece, we think there's competition across the marketplace today. We see it. And we would think that any kind of additional regulation on products that are already competitive will stifle investment and won't be good for consumers or businesses or the overall economy.

So we think that's, if you will, headed in the wrong direction. We'll continue to present our case on that.

On Title II, we always expected the final resolution to be in the hands of the Supreme Court, and we'll work through the process and follow the Supreme Court process closely, and then make our decisions going from then on. I would suggest to you those are really my comments on all of those matters.

With regard to, Simon, the home media gateway, I'd suggest to you this aspect: that we continue -- and I'm not going to be able to give you a detailed answer; I'm not going to try to on a home media gateway. But what I will tell you is that we continue to believe that as we go through the process we can get cost synergies in DTV by standardizing the interfaces, whether they get the video over the satellite, whether they get it over the broadband, or whether they get it over the IP television.

And we continue to work on those activities to standardize the graphic user interface, the set-top boxes, and what many would consider a gateway or home gateway for media. Those activities continue to be on, and we'll continue to work for that. It's a natural efficiency and it's also a really good-quality service for the customers.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. Sounds like that's still a medium-term item.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, it's not -- I would not suggest it's a near-term item. I'd have to -- and I will go back with my team and follow up on that. But right now, I would suggest it's a medium-term.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

MICHAEL VIOLA: Hey, Kathy, we'll take one more question.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, guys. Two quick ones if you don't mind. John, can you give us a sense of what your services-only ARPU is, or if I bring my own device what that is? Because I know my own children, they've been blowing through their data usage since they got out of school and there's a lot of new applications out there.

Can you maybe talk about how much the current data volume growth can drive ARPU growth in your opinion over the next few years? And then I just had a quick clarification.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. Tim, certainly we are seeing buckets get bigger for our customers. We are seeing higher demand, so we're optimistic about that opportunity. We're careful about it, because of the competitive environment and responding to or at least understanding how competitors may respond to what we've done.

So certainly the data growth as we spelled out on our slides, the data growth continues. And for us as an integrated carrier with the backhaul and the fiber and the extensive number of towers and spectrum, we feel really good about our competitive position.

The question of how quickly we can get our data growth or what percentage that will be will be a function of both the efficiencies we're putting into our data delivery as well as customer demand and competitor pricing. But yes, there is absolutely a lot of growth in demand and usage, and we hope to capture that in additional revenues as we go forward.

TIM HORAN: Great. I think John Hodulik said you were halfway through your DTV synergies and Project Agile. Is that correct?

JOHN STEPHENS: We're on track to get to the $1.5 billion -- we say $1.5 billion-plus run rate by December of this year. So I don't want to suggest to you that that's the number for the year. It's the run rate at that level we'll get to in December.

So we feel really good about where we're going for next year and the year after and getting to the $2.5 billion run rate in 2018 is our guidance. So that's that piece of it.

We are on track to get about half of those Project Agile savings today. That is correct. We said that in the prepared -- that will be in the script. That's in the prepared remarks.

TIM HORAN: Great. Thanks a lot.

JOHN STEPHENS: With that, I want to thank everybody for being on the call today, and let me just give you a few closing comments before we go. It's been one year after our acquisition of DIRECTV, and we are very pleased with where we stand. The integration of DIRECTV is on track. The cost synergies are ahead of target, and we've added nearly 1 million satellite customers since the merger. And our new streaming services are scheduled to come online later this year.

We believe our unique assets, our leading cost structure, and our ability to offer integrated solutions positions us like no one else. We think this is just the beginning. We are positioned as a unique competitor and the first scaled communications and video provider to offer fully integrated nationwide products. And we fully expect to increase our momentum as we go forward.

As always, on your way home tonight, remember: When it comes to texting and driving, it can wait. Thanks again for being on the call and, as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T, and have a good evening.

MICHAEL VIOLA: Good night.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
mex : Mexico | usa : United States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160722ec7l007y5
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,915 words
   PD
26 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the 2016 AT&T first-quarter earnings call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I will now turn the conference over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Michael Viola. Please go ahead, sir.

MICHAEL VIOLA, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Kathy. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first-quarter conference call. It's great to have everybody with us today. Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. John will cover our results, and then we will follow with a Q&A session.

Let me remind you, our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. That is ATT.com/investors.relations.

Of course, I need to call your attention to the Safe Harbor statement before we begin. The Safe Harbor says that some of the comments today may be forward-looking; and as such, subject to risks and uncertainties, and results may differ materially. Additional information is available on the investor relations page of AT&T's website.

I also want to remind you that we are in a quiet period for the SEC spectrum auction, so we cannot address any questions about spectrum today.

Now, before I hand the call over to John, let me quickly call your attention to slide 4. Slide 4 provides a consolidated financial summary. We had a very good first quarter at AT&T. First-quarter consolidated revenues grew to $40.5 billion, largely due to the acquisition of DIRECTV. But we also saw growth in video and IP-based services on a comparable basis. This offset pressure from lower equipment sales as well as foreign exchange.

We continued our streak of double-digit adjusted EPS growth, and after adjustments -- and, by the way, the adjustments included removing over $700 million of benefit from spectrum swaps with other industry participants. So with those adjustments, first-quarter EPS was $0.72, up 10.8%. This strong growth comes even with about $0.03 of earnings pressure from our Mexico wireless operations.

Margins also continue to be a great story. We saw consolidated margin growth, with margin expansion in every domestic business segment. Operating cash flows were up more than $1 billion year-over-year, with free cash flow of $3.2 billion, a 17% increase from a year ago. Capital investment is on plan, coming in at $4.7 billion.

And so with that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens.

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks Mike, and hello everyone, and thanks for being on the call. As Mike said, we turned in another solid financial performance. Revenues grew, margins expanded, and we had our fourth straight quarter of double-digit adjusted EPS growth. Growth in strategic business services, IP broadband, and video were big factors. And add sales in our entertainment group is now more than $1 billion in annualized revenues and growing.

What makes our revenue results even more impressive is we did this with lower equipment sales and with more than $500 million of pressure in foreign exchange and with the ongoing pressure of exiting some of our marginal businesses. We are on track to reach a run rate of $1.5 billion in cost synergies from the DIRECTV deal. We are also taking cost out of the business and driving greater savings through efficiency initiatives such as Project Agile, and transforming our network with software. This gives us the financial flexibility to invest in growth initiatives such as our Mexico operations.

At the same time, we are also executing on our commitments to transition and transform our business. We have been consistent on this for years, transforming our smartphone base, transitioning from subsidies to equipment plans, moving our broadband-based IP and our legacy database to strategic services. We have done a lot of work, but we have a lot of more to do.

Our video customers are shifting to satellite. We are moving our 2G customers onto our new LTE networks. And we are continuing to use bundling offers to take advantage of our integrated networks. All of this makes us feel really good about our direction and the strong start to the year. We have built a solid record of setting goals and achieving them. We are very confident that we will continue to do that and transform our business.

Let's now take a look at our business operations, starting with growth in our business solutions segment. Those details are on slide 6.

Solid wireless revenue gains drove overall growth in business, and more than offset lower equipment sales and foreign exchange pressure. Total business solution revenues were up slightly, with business wireless revenues up 2.3%, reflecting smartphone and tablet gains, as well as more customers on lower-churn business plans.

Margins also continued their growth trend. EBITDA margins were up more -- EBITDA was up more than $300 million as cost reductions added to our revenue gains. Margins grew to 38.7%, up 180 basis points year-over-year, thanks to a focused performance by the entire team.

Looking at our customer segments in business, all retail customer segments showed growth and our wholesale business is on plan, even though revenues were pressured. Legacy data continues to migrate to our IP strategic business services. Total wireline data grew slightly in the quarter, and is now about 60% of wireline business revenues. Driving that growth is strategic services.

Revenue grew by nearly $250 million over last year's first quarter. That is up 9.3%. And if you adjust it for foreign exchange, growth would have exceeded 10%. Strategic business services are now more than $11 billion in annualized revenues. We also are seeing continue demand for highly secure mobile business solutions. Security continues to be the top of the mind for our business customers. Every enterprise must rethink its place in today's connected world. We are managing highly secure networks, given our unique experience. And our ability to provide business solutions sets us apart, and we intend to be very active in this space.

Now, let's move to our entertainment group results on slide 7. As a reminder, our entertainment group provides video, broadband, and phone services to residential customers. On a reported basis, entertainment group revenues showed strong growth due to our acquisition of DIRECTV. However, if you look at results adjusted to include prior-year DIRECTV on a comparative basis, revenue still grew by more than 3% as IP, video, and advertising revenue growth outpaced legacy service declines. Our high-speed Internet service grew by more than $250 million and now generates more than $7 billion in annualized revenue. We are seeing solid growth with our add sales, which are now more than $1 billion annualized revenues and going strong. At the same time, we again saw exceptional margin expansions, which points directly to the profitability benefits of the merger. Our EBITDA margins nearly doubled year-over-year.

Taking a look at our metrics, satellite net adds continue to be strong as we added more than 300,000 in the quarter. Total entertainment group broadband net adds were positive in the quarter, driven by 186,000 IP broadband subscribers. We have done a great job transitioning our broadband base to IP, and that transition is nearly complete. About 95% of the eligible broadband subs now have IP broadband. Half of these customers choose higher speeds, which helped drive the 16% revenue growth in IP broadband.

We also made several strategic moves in the quarter as a premier integrated communications company. We announced our new DIRECTV streaming services in the first quarter. We are actively working the content deals for these new services, and we are on target for launch in the second half of the year. And Fullscreen's ad-free subscription service launched today. Fullscreen is majority owned by Otter Media, a partnership between AT&T and the Chernin Group. AT&T has signed on as the premier launch sponsor for the new service, and will collaborate with Fullscreen to market and promote the service with special offers for AT&T's more than 100 million video, mobile, and broadband customers.

We are also seeing our broadband (technical difficulty) TV go up. The attach rate of DTV sales with broadband in our wireline footprint has increased 50% since last summer. And in GigaPower areas, the attach rate improvement is even greater.

Our new unlimited wireless with video offer started fast and continues at a solid pace. More than 3 million wireless subscribers signed up for this plan at the end of the first quarter with thousands more being added every day. These are some of our highest ARPU subscribers who are even more valuable to us now that they have combined these services.

Our entertainment group team is performing well on every level: merger integration, cross-selling, special bundle offers, advertising, and now streaming services. But the second half of the year is when our integration efforts really take hold. Single truck rolls, cross-selling, and new product rollouts are just beginning to take off. We are on track with all our targets, and we are very excited about what is to come.

Now, let's move to our US mobility results on slide 8. Another reminder: AT&T's domestic mobility operations are now divided between the business solution and consumer wireless segments. For comparison purposes, the Company is also providing supplemental information for its total US wireless operations.

We continued to see margin expansion and stabilizing service revenues in the quarter. Service revenues were stable year-over-year, thanks in part to having completed most of the transition to the Mobile Share Value plans, as well as adding new customers; while overall wireless revenues were down slightly due to lower equipment sales.

We have changed the game with our equipment installment plans. We started the transition more than two years ago with Next, and are substantially through that transition. Our strategy is working and you can see it in our results. Our laser focus on cost efficiencies and fewer upgrades drove our best ever first-quarter wireless EBITDA margins.

Wireless EBITDA increased more than $600 million when compared to the first -- the year-ago first quarter. And wireless service EBITDA margin came in at 49.5%, its best quarter ever. Phone-only ARPU plus Next billing continued its strong growth. This ARPU was up more than 5% year-over-year, and also up sequentially. Nearly half of our smartphone base is now on AT&T Next. More than 70% of postpaid smartphone subscribers are on a no-device subsidy plan.

During the quarter, we discontinued the availability of subsidized phones for most subscribers. This will drive continued growth in the no-subsidy model. In fact, 90% of postpaid smartphone sales and upgrades were all on AT&T Next or BYOD. Our branded percentage is even higher.

Now, let's look at wireless net adds. During the first quarter, AT&T posted a net increase of 2.3 million total net adds, our best first quarter ever. That includes 1.8 million domestic wireless subs. Net adds were driven by connected devices, branded phones, and tablets. Branded domestic net adds, both postpaid and prepaid, were up more than 600,000, thanks to strength in prepaid. That included 137,000 branded phone net adds.

When you include Mexico, we had nearly 1.2 million branded net adds in our wireless operations, and more than 700,000 branded phone net adds. Cricket continues to be a great option for our value-focused customers. We had 500,000 prepaid net adds in the quarter, and nearly 1 million prepaid net adds when you include Mexico. Our ARPU for the new prepaid Cricket subs continues to run about $41. That compares to feature phones ARPU of about $35. Feature phones make up the bulk of our postpaid phone losses.

The Cricket momentum continues to grow. We expanded our Cricket to distribution to Best Buy and Aaron's locations. Crickets will be available in more than 12,000 outlets across the country. We also just introduced a new Cricket unlimited plan, including talk, text, and data for $65 a month with auto pay, and no hidden fees. We had 1.6 million connected device net adds, matching our best-ever net add quarter. We now have nearly 28 million of these devices on our network, and we are laying the foundation for future growth.

In the first quarter, we also continue to grow our high-value smartphone base. We added 1.1 million branded smartphones during the quarter. More than 95% of our postpaid phone sales in the quarter were smartphones, and nearly 90% of our postpaid phone base has smartphones. Total churn was essentially stable year-over-year.

On a related note, we are moving forward with our previously announced shutdown of our legacy 2G network. We plan on decommissioning it by the end of the year. We have taken steps to migrate our 2G customer base, and expect most to take this transition. We expect to continue to see manageable pressure in the last half of the year from subscribers, mostly connected devices, choosing not to make this migration. While this might have a slight impact on revenues, we also see the cost benefits from shutting down the network; and the spectrum will be redeployed to help meet the growing data demand of our customer base.

Now, let's look at our international operations. That information is on slide 10. We continue the hard work and heavy lifting to make our Mexico wireless operations world-class. That includes deploying of 4G LTE network, integrating operations and support services, and rebranding to the AT&T name. The team is doing a great job with all of this.

Even more impressive, they are adding customers at the same time. We added more than 500,000 wireless subscribers in the first quarter, and nearly 1.1 million in just the last six months. That brings our total subscriber count to 9.2 million.

Rebranding is also gaining speed. We've launched nationwide advertising where branding in Mexico City is nearly complete. Our LTE deployment now reaches 51 million people. In just a year, we're more than halfway to reaching our commitment to deploy LTE to 100 million POPs by the end of 2018. We are also on target to reach 75 million POPs by the end of this year.

First-quarter revenue reflects seasonally lower equipment sales, as well as the impact of foreign exchange, as we successfully continue to execute our strategy.

In Latin America, our video operations continue to show solid revenue growth on a local currency basis, but foreign exchange rates significantly impacted our published results. Revenues are being hampered by a challenging economy. Subscriber pressures in Brazil impacted net adds. But foreign exchange also impacted lower Company expenses. We did see sequential profitability trends in the quarter, and continue to expect self-sustaining cash flow for the year.

Now let's move to consolidated margins on slide 11. Consolidated margins reflect the overall strength of our business. EBITDA margins were slightly up, and adjusted consolidated operating income margin came in at 19.9% in the quarter. That was a 110 basis point improvement over the year-ago first quarter. Strong margin expansion in our domestic segments more than offset nearly 90 basis points of margin pressure from our growth initiatives in Mexico.

Our drive to have the industry-best cost structure also is continuing on track. Efficiency initiatives and our software transformation are driving productivity gains and expense savings. On a comparable basis, our expenses were down more than $300 million year-over-year, driven by access costs efficiencies, automation efforts in service delivery, IT rationalization, and software savings. We also continue to see lower call volumes and improvements in cycle times for our efforts to improve the sales experience.

During the quarter, we also eliminated subsidized phones for most of our postpaid customers. This should sustain further margin improvement, even though most of our smartphone base is already off the subsidy model.

Our margin momentum continues to be strong. We are confident we can continue to expand domestic margins and cut costs to offset pressure while in the investment cycle in Mexico. And we expect Mexico to improve its profitability late in the year.

Cash flows were another strong story. Let's take a look at the results on slide 12. Along with solid earnings, the margins -- we also continued to deliver strong cash flow growth. In the first quarter, cash from operations was nearly $8 billion, up 17% year-over-year; and free cash flow was $3.2 billion, also a 17% increase from the year-ago first quarter.

The strong free cash flow growth comes even with more than $1 billion of pressure from timing of fourth-quarter payables. With these first-quarter results, we are on track to meet guidance, and on plan to grow free cash flow for the year. We continue to find ample demand and great rates for the securitization market to help us manage our Next receivables. We have received about $1.5 billion in the first quarter, or about the same amount as last year's first quarter.

Capital investments totaled $4.7 billion for the quarter. Wireless CapEx is down slightly from the fourth quarter when we accelerated purchases of equipment to capture significant savings. On average, wireless CapEx was about $2.2 billion for the last two quarters. But not captured in those costs are investments in shared infrastructure -- for example, running fiber to a cell site, but also using that fiber connection for our business wireline services. Shared infrastructure is about half of our non-wireless spending, and is one of the benefits from our integrated network carrier strategy. With our industry-best cell density and balanced spectrum portfolio, we are adding wireless capacity far more effectively and efficiently than anyone in the industry.

Our virtualization and software-defined networks are already delivering material CapEx savings. We will be adding 2.5 times more capacity at 75% of the capital cost compared to just a few years ago.

In our other uses of cash, dividends totaled $2.9 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio declined to 2.27 times. And during the quarter, we successfully exchanged $16 billion of DIRECTV debt, and issued $6 billion of debt at very reasonable rates. We ended the quarter with $10 billion in cash and short-term investments, giving us the flexibility and financial strength to manage the overall needs of our business.

Before we get to your questions, let me close with a quick recap of the quarter on slide 13. The first quarter demonstrated our ability to deliver strong, consistent results as we execute the strategy we have laid out for you. Our approach has been methodical. Our results have been consistent. We again grew revenues, expanded margins, and delivered double-digit adjusted EPS growth.

Our DIRECTV integration continues to go smoothly. And we are on track to deliver a run rate of $1.5 billion or more in cost synergies by the end of this year. We are also providing the first glimpse of what it means to be the premier integrated communications carrier in the world with our integrated offers and streaming plans.

Our business solutions segment continues to outperform the market with strategic service revenue gains and margin expansion. Wireless again had record margins, growing phone-only plus Next ARPU, and had strong growth with its Cricket prepaid perform.

In Mexico, wireless is fast becoming an emerging growth story as we quickly build that business and expand our North American 4G LTE network. We are convinced our strategy is working, and our momentum is strong. We are proud of what we have accomplished this quarter, and even more excited about what lies ahead.

With that, let's get to your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: John, maybe just a comment on handset phone additions and postpaid. What strategies do you guys have in place to kind of turn around or stem the losses there? I presume as the feature phone base continues to decline, that will become less of a headwind.

And then just thinking about ARPU, I think the trajectory on phone on the ARPU without Next payments continues to get better. Is there a point at which you can see that starting to turn positive later this year?

JOHN STEPHENS: A couple things; one, our strategies with regard to the overall business, but including our phone market is really on this integrated carrier strategy. So as we roll out these products that we can combine or video and our mobility and our broadband; and as we see these values net to the customers, we are optimistic we are going to be able to continue to improve our business.

One other point I will make to you, though, too, is with these kinds of margins and these kinds of expansions in margins, it gives us the flexibility and, quite frankly, it grows the universe of customers that are long-term value-creating customers for us with these new margin standards that the team has set. So we are real optimistic about being competitive.

With that being said, we are still viewing the Cricket and the prepaid platform as very viable, profitable long-term strategy. We believe it gives us an entree into a market that is significant, and, as you can see, generating great results. We are seeing continued improvement in service revenues. We saw it, as you can see, in the first quarter, and in ARPU. So we are very positive about that. We believe there is real opportunity to continue that. But we will continue to worry about performing first, and predicting it afterwards.

But we are optimistic; we like what we see. We like what happened when we combined the video and wireless offerings and the number of customers, for example, that not only added their phones but added their tablets to the program. That was very encouraging, so we are really optimistic.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Do you think that is having a negative impact on ARPU, if you think about the tablets coming on, as well is the bundled offers? Or is that not a significant impact?

JOHN STEPHENS: The tablets come on at $40 for the video offering, so they come in at a real strong rate. Depending upon whether they are a new and they are an addition, or whether they are a conversion of an existing tablet, you could have different impacts on ARPU. But we are certainly very pleased with those coming on.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: John, could you just maybe frame the service revenue impact you talked about with the second-half shutdown of the 2G network? I think you said you have gotten back to flattish. Is that going to change the dynamic in the second half, first of all?

And then second, upgrade rate was even lower than we thought, at 5%. Obviously that also helped the EBITDA margins. How should we look at that over the next few quarters, both, say, the second and third quarter? Obviously, fourth quarter is a little bit of a wild card. But do you expect the same kind of margins in those quarters that we -- the strength that we have seen this quarter? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: John, with regard to 2G, we have been on this path to convert our 2G customers for a number of years. If you recall, we first announced, I think a year and a half ago -- or more than a year and a half ago -- our plans for 2G. So we have migrated much of that base already, a significant amount. In fact, in the last 12 months, we have migrated something like 6 million customers off that base. And that has been flowing through the numbers that you have seen. So we are working through that on a regular basis already.

So that impact is included in the service numbers that we -- service revenue numbers that we've reported and that we talk about going forward. So it is already in that; and because of that, we're going to be careful. But it is already in that optimism that we have.

With regard to the upgrade rate, I could see it continuing to be very moderate until a new device -- until a significant or iconic device comes out. Once that happens, it is a little bit unpredictable. But I could see this -- a lower rate continuing throughout most of the year.

JOHN HODULIK: Got you. Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: A similar theme -- the overall video decline, a little better than we had expected; U-verse a little bigger; DTV a little better. So, two things: one, do you still expect that you can get to positive for the full year on the video numbers? And just confirm that that does not include the over-the-top product.

And second, I have been under the impression that you are trying to stem some of the U-verse declines through some efforts. Is that still happening? Or are you going to sort of watch this tail off at this pace? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: First of all, folks, we want to keep all our quality customers. So we will do prudent, rational steps to keep all of our customers, and keep them as part of our AT&T family. We are interested in doing that in any event. With regard to the video perspective, let me give you this thought. In the second half of the year, we will have had the integration efforts really completed and fully ramped.

So, single truck roll -- which, for example, we didn't really start training nine of our states in the Southeast region until this year. They have now been all trained. But we will see that start to -- we are seeing it have improvements now. But as that becomes a normal part of the business over the next few months, and we get repetition with regard to the success base on that, and we continue to have all our sales channels fully up to speed and selling those territories as we add those single truck roll capabilities, we see real optimism on the second half of the year.

Secondly, just from a traditional basis, I think the NFL package has a real positive effect on net adds, and it occurs generally in the second half of the year. And we think the ability to add further integrated products and expand our wireless bundling further will give us that opportunity to, for the full year, grow video customers.

PHIL CUSICK: I'm sorry, not to push, but you had guided to full-year video growth. Is that still the guidance?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. That's what I said. We are still getting there to total video growth. And we think those -- the reasons I laid out; the fact the NFL contract comes really has impact on sales in the second half. The fact that quarter over quarter, every quarter since we merged, we have increased satellite sales. The fact that the full single truck roll integrated sales, integrated customer service, will be most effective in the second half of the year will give us that ability to add video for the year.

PHIL CUSICK: And it sounds like that does include the stand-alone over-the-top product, or it does not?

JOHN STEPHENS: No, we don't have -- we have not made any predictions on the stand-alone over-the-top video product yet. So, we are expecting to reach positive with -- not including those numbers.

PHIL CUSICK: Perfect. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: First question, John, would be just in terms of getting to the $1.5 billion synergy savings run rate by the end of the year. Could you kind of size what was this quarter, and what is on the come for the rest of the year?

And then second, just on the unlimited, I saw in the disclosures that there's about 3 million unlimited customers. Obviously some of those are going to be related to the video bundle that you are doing. Could you talk a little bit more about the learnings, about what people are doing with mobile video, with an unlimited wireless capability? And what is the economic model that you see supporting giving away unlimited data for this purpose? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: So, the first thing with regard to the $1.5 billion, we are making real progress on our content cost savings. We are getting those from new content -- contract negotiations; as well, quite frankly, as the fact that our base has shifted more to DTV, and we get that from the existing contracts.

Two, we got a lot of it from our headquarters advertising the traditional things you find with headquarter companies merging together -- those savings in professional fees and contractors in consulting fees settings -- we are getting that. And then we are seeing some savings, and we would expect to see more as we go through not only on the expense side, but on the cash flow side from aligning vendor contracts, best price of both companies' contracts, and best payment terms. So those are what is underway.

We've been at this almost 9 months now, or a little over nine months, and it is going relatively well. We are encouraged, not only that we are going to meet the $1.5 billion run rate, but that we have the opportunity to exceed it. So, that piece of it, David.

I think the first thing on the 3 million unlimited, those are the customers that are buying video from us. Many of those customers, most of those customers, were already buying a video product from us. So you can imagine when they buy the video, when they buy the wireless, and they often buy the broadband, these are some very high ARPU customers, and customers that are very valuable long-term to us.

And so, giving them this opportunity to use our services any time, any place, where they live and work is very positive for them and creates not only satisfaction for them, but also high value for us. It also has added some video customers. We have been able to use this as an opportunity to add video customers for the wireless customers who want to get this opportunity.

Secondly, we are still in the learning stage of it. But we are still finding that 80% of our video traffic, or some number like that, is on Wi-Fi or it gets offloaded very quickly. So, while the impact is convenience for the customers, so far, it looks like it is going to be a manageable exercise for us. We are continuing to evaluate it, and we are going to continue to learn.

But the common place where people use this video still allows us to have Wi-Fi supplement for it, and that is providing us some measure of opportunity for success. But the real issue is when the customers are paying us for all those services, it makes real sense. We can really get comfortable with offering the unlimited. So far, it is working well.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays Capital.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was wondering if we could talk a bit about the stand-alone OTT offerings. You had mentioned in your prepared commentary that you have had some progress with the content partners. How should we think about the positioning of those offerings going forward in terms of potential opportunities to either expand the addressable market for DIRECTV?

Or, conversely, there have been some concerns that it could come in and cause some level of potential cannibalization for certain types of users. And then I've got a follow-up question, if I may.

JOHN STEPHENS: The AT&T now and the AT&T mobile are really specifically -- the DTV Now, excuse me, and the DTV mobile -- the DTV Now is really expected to look and appear and have channel choices very similar to what we have on the traditional subscription DTV product today. The attractiveness for us is that, yes, there is a market of 20 million households that don't have it today. There is a collection of, if you will, core nevers, young people who have never had their own subscription that they might be able to get this.

And quite frankly, the cost efficiency of being able to deliver it without having the cost of installation of a satellite dish or possibly a set-top box -- whatever the cost that may be eliminated out of this -- are really attractive and make it something that not only could grow the customer base, but also can be a very reasonable profitability for us. So we believe that we are very excited about that opportunity, and it gives us a way to compete in different places, even those places where we don't have a broadband product in place. So we are excited about that.

Right now, the people who buy our DIRECTV and U-verse video products are the high-end customers who generally want a subscription video product in their home, with three or four televisions connected, and that variation. So it is a slightly different marketplace or different customer base with regard to DIRECTV Now. Likewise, we are excited about the opportunity to do it on mobility, and provide the DTV mobility to those customers who use mobile devices as their broadband alternative.

With that being said, we are really excited about growing the market. And, at this time, we are excited about the ability to package a collection of content that is very similar to and very attractive to the customers that we would be targeting with this.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much. And then just a quick follow-up. Thinking about the cash flow generation capabilities of the Company at this level, you had mentioned you feel like you are on track when it comes to the synergies associated with the DIRECTV integration. There have been other cost synergy or cost reduction initiatives ongoing at the Company for some time now, be it Project Agile or other initiatives. How should we think about the opportunities for improving the cash generation capabilities of the combined entity?

JOHN STEPHENS: Real simply, the numbers we have out in public was our Project Agile initiatives, which are going quite well. We are about $3 billion of annual cost efficiency, cash expense -- operating expense savings or cash savings. Our merger initiatives are $1.5 billion a year or more, once they get up to the run rate. As you have seen, we've got software-defined networks which are really driving the opportunity to, if you will, reduce capital costs and reduce cash operating expenses from the ability to eliminate truck rolls and other installation costs.

When you roll those up, it's pretty easy to take those public numbers we have given and get to a number that is a $4 billion or $5 billion, $6 billion opportunity, whatever totals you want to get to. That kind of opportunity is very exciting for us. We are striving and working very hard. If that is to occur, we will have a very strong opportunity over time to grow cash flows.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great. Thank you very much for the incremental color.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: First, can you give us an update on the initiatives that management discussed around deploying 40 megahertz of new spectrum to fuel capacity for the emerging video strategy and mobile broadband demand that you are seeing?

And then secondly, if we can just an update on your thoughts more broadly on the strategy in Latin America, and how you perceive the need to (technical difficulty) all, to either scale up or scale out of those markets over time? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So, with regard to -- and I will stay away from anything with regard to the auction, as Mike mentioned at the first, can't make any comments with regard to that. Our overall spectrum plan, though, as you all know, we started the IP some years ago, and put in a lot of fiber in the ground and put LTE nationwide. It was our effort to have a network, and particularly a wireless network that had extremely strong backhaul capabilities, and would be built in a manner such that we could operate the technology rather easily, as new technologies came along.

With regard to having that network, it is a very dense network with macro towers, and as such, we are now in a position that with our 40 megahertz of WCS and AWS-3 spectrum, we are now in that position of taking that spectrum and rolling it out and putting it to use over top of this very high-quality, dense, fiber-rich network that we have already built. That allows us to deal with the capacity needs of our business for a long period of time, and continue to then position us, as appropriate, to do software upgrades as we move onto the next group of technologies.

So we feel very -- in a very good position, and feel like the overall strategies that we started with some years ago with Project VIP, and getting the 300 million LTE POPs out there, and getting a fiber-rich backbone out there support the backhaul for the right decisions that are really paying off with this, as well as the decisions we made to buy the WCS and buy the AWS-3 spectrums. They are really coming into value for us in a very significant way.

With regard to Latin America, as we mentioned in our comments, we mentioned before -- tough environment, but the team down there, we have been impressed with; they are operating very well. Brazil is a challenging environment, both economically and politically. But the team is performing quite well, and the overall profitability is impressing us for a management team to be able to operate in that environment and produce the results they are.

We are focused not on customer accounts, but on profitable growth and quality. And, quite frankly, we are recently encouraged by the change in some of the exchange rates. If you look at where the Brazil real is today, at closer to 3.5, you can look at where the Argentine peso is at 14.5; and even some improvements, quite frankly, in Mexico and the peso coming up, we are starting to see some light. It's very early, and so we will continue to work very hard to improve operating results.

We will keep flexibility with it. We are impressed with the teams that are there. We're going to keep working hard to make it the best business we can.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I wanted to focus on the handsets a little bit more. Do you think the quality of the handsets have gotten better, so that the life can be extended here? And do think customers are going to look to save money on handsets? And if so, can we see some elasticity in terms of service spending with you guys a little bit more?

JOHN STEPHENS: Tim, the first thing is, to your first point, on the quality -- I do think that is part of it. But what I also think is, if you will, the BYOD aspect of our business, we've seen significant increases in those numbers since we started the equipment installment plan, or the Next program. And so I think there were a lot of phones that were very -- still very operable, very good shape, that were in, quite frankly, that were idle in the drawer, so to speak. And I think we have seen the reuse of those phones extensively.

We have seen our BYOD numbers grow from 80,000 to 90,000 a quarter, some years ago, to 400,000 or more in a quarter. So I think your point on that is best exemplified or best described by that.

With that being said, I think when consumers get the choice and understand that they are making spending decisions with their money, they are going to be very efficient.

Last, I think that there are -- it's a fluid market; and there is, quite frankly, developing a lot of quality, lower-cost handsets. We are seeing that really in our prepaid business extensively, where there is a lot of good quality smartphones that are much lower per-unit cost.

All of those things are impacting the marketplace, and they are impacting our equipment revenues, but they are impacting our equipment expenses. And as both of those go down, we certainly are striving to have the opportunity to have the customer continue to reinvest some of those savings in our services. And we will strive to continue to do that.

We will see how that plays out. In the first quarter, we did have good, solid performance in our wireless service revenues. We are extremely encouraged by that.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Two quick ones, one just coming to cash flow, and a statement you made earlier in your remarks about seasonality of payables. It looks like you used about $4 billion cash on payables. And I was just hoping we would get some color on how to think about working capital items impacting cash flow for the balance of the year.

And then the 3 million subs who took the unlimited wireless plan, a lot of them were existing customers. It is generally ARPU accretive when the customers move into the unlimited plan? And since it is still ongoing, should we view that as a source of ARPU stability going forward?

JOHN STEPHENS: Good questions, Brett. I think, Brett, you're looking at the cash flow statement and you're looking at that change in accounts payable. It was about a $1.8 billion impact last year for the first quarter, and about a $4 billion impact this year. And you are looking at the right numbers.

The reason that increased was twofold. We had the opportunity to invest a lot of CapEx. There's a lot of equipment and a lot of inventory in the fourth quarter at very good prices and rates, and satisfying contractual commitments. Those things turn around and get paid for in the first quarter.

With that being said, we think that is a timing item, and we don't think it will have a permanent impact for the year. It will just reverse out as we go through, so that is it. We bought up some inventory, enhanced that to the other items, and we made some investments in equipment. So that is that aspect of it. That is why we are encouraged about free cash flow not only meeting guidance, but actually growing year-over-year.

Secondly, the 3 million subs are mostly existing subs. And initial times where that -- many of them brought not only their device, their handsets, but their tablets with them, and there was some positive impact for those who did bring those tablets. We are encouraged by that. We are optimistic about that. But we are going to be very patient and careful about that to see how that plays out.

We did, though, get some new video customers out of this. And I won't suggest it was a significant amount of the 3 million, but we did get some new ones. And we are also very encouraged about that. And we are learning from that to find out how we might be able to make that a more -- grow that addition of video customers even more through these types of offerings. So, positive on both ends of your questions.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: You touched on GigaPower and the attach rates for your broadband. Can you just update us on the buildout, or is that going to be fairly linear? Where do you stand today in sort of the FCC commitments?

And going back to the 2G decommissioning, perhaps you can just let us know how much spectrum is tied up in 2G that will get freed up by this initiative? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: On the GigaPower, I think we are at 1.6 million fiber-to-the-prem locations that are active and running today. We are on track with our FCC commitments, and are confident we are going to meet those on a timely basis. And included in our CapEx plans for this year, and our longer-term multiyear plans includes fully funding all that activity, so we are optimistic about that.

With regard to the 2G commissioning, the one item I want to make sure I am straightforward with is as the volume of data traffic or volume of traffic on the wireless network has gone down from 2G devices, we have been, if you will, taking parts of that spectrum and repurposing it as we go.

So, in some markets, we may only have a 2 by 5 slice of spectrum left to repurpose. So we have been doing that, if you will, so to speak, ratably or as we go as we have been able to free up spectrum. So there is more spectrum to free up. I don't have the specific numbers at my disposal, here, Simon. But I will tell you, even with that, there still is a lot of cost that are left just to operate even a piece of the 2G network. And so we are anxious to capture that savings and use it to continue a strong EBITDA story for our wireless business, and a story that is coming from good quality network operations and efficiency.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Frank Louthan, Raymond James.

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Can you give us a little update, as you have been making the transition between the U-verse customers there, what is sort of the cannibalization rate between some of the DIRECTV and the wireline U-verse? And the same thing on the broadband: are you seeing a shift more to taking advantage more of the GigaPower and away from DSL? How much of that is just losing share?

JOHN STEPHENS: On the broadband side, Frank, we are through most of the opportunity of where they have DSL, and also have the choice of either GigaPower or high-speed broadband products. About 95% have already transferred. So we have got some left. The rest of it is just a legacy DSL footprint. We will continue to support those. We will continue to try to provide good service to those customers.

But, if you will, that trade-off has -- the team has worked hard to get people to upgrade into speeds and to take advantage of our better-quality products and services. I think of that as a success.

With regard to U-verse and DIRECTV, it is really the focus has not been so much about cannibalization as it is that the sales channel has been focusing on selling DTV satellite service. And the reason is, is because it is a lower cost structure. We can get, if you will, the content synergy savings by adding the customer there. So, that's really what's going on.

It's not so much a cannibalization or a concerted effort, if you will, to shift. It is more of getting the new customers on DTV. And then in some cases, certainly, when we have [same desk] opportunities, one of the ways we can do it is getting onto the lower cost structure. So, that is really the focus. We still get good Net Promoter Scores and good quality scores on both the DTV and the U-verse platform, and we are still pleased to support both. I have U-verse in my own home, so it works very well for me.

FRANK LOUTHAN: All right, great. Thank you.

MICHAEL VIOLA: Kathy, we will take one more question.

OPERATOR: Amy Yong, Macquarie.

AMY YONG, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: I was actually wondering if you could talk a little bit about your Mexico business. You've had two quarters now of consecutive net add growth. What sort of trajectory should we expect, going forward? I think in your commentary, you mentioned profitability improving in the back half of the year. What kind of metrics should we expect? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: We are not going to give specific guidance on customer accounts in Mexico, but we are excited about the progress we've made. And certainly when you have got two quarters in a row growing customers at this level, you want to keep that momentum going.

The more important aspect on Mexico is this: one, we do expect at the end of this year we will have 75 million of the population covered with LTE. That will probably bring our total North American footprint to well over 390 million. So we will be at essentially 400 million POPs by the end of this year, but certainly by 2018 on the North American footprint. That growth in LTE POPs then gives you the opportunity to expand your sales in other markets.

Including in that is launching additional markets with an effective market strategy where we not only have the network, but we also have customer care, customer service, the AT&T brand, and acceptable distribution. And we will continue to grow that effective marketplace. We have got, if you will, markets launched of about 42 in Mexico today, and we expect it to be up to 160 by the end of the year. So you can see that getting the LTE to 75 million POPs, and getting the customer care service and the distribution at that same level, is going to provide us a much greater opportunity than we have today, and will give us some time to establish ourselves in those markets that we have just joined.

So, you can understand why we are optimistic about it, and that we believe that the team is on the right track in doing that (multiple speakers). It is a long-term investment for us. We believe highly in the market. And we think it is a natural addition to our North American operations, not only for wireless, but also for our business opportunities.

AMY YONG: Great, thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: I think that will conclude our call for today. As we do, let me just close by saying thank you for your time. We appreciate your interest in AT&T. And as always, as you're going home tonight, please don't text and drive. The text can wait. Thank you, and take care.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and choosing AT&T executive teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160427ec4q009q1
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,285 words
   PD
26 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). And at this time, I would like to turn the conference call over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Mr. Mike Viola. Please go ahead.

   TD
MIKE VIOLA, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Okay, thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to our fourth-quarter conference call. It is great to have all of you with us.

Joining me on the call today is Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Randall will provide some opening comments and then he will close with 2016 guidance. John will cover our results and we will follow all of that up with the Q&A session.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website at ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before we begin, I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. You have seen this before, but it says that some of our comments today may be forward looking and, as such, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Results may differ materially and additional information is available on the investor relations page of AT&T's website.

So with that, I will turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Executive Officer, Randall Stephenson.

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, AT&T INC.: Okay, thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everybody.

Before John steps you through the results, I want to take just a couple of minutes and just reiterate the strategy we are pursuing. That is to be the premier integrated communications company in the world, and obviously that's a strategy that we are pursuing in every single market segment and it is from our largest multinational customers to the most price-sensitive consumer.

And when you look at 2015, it was an eventful year where we put together a lot of the pieces that were required to fulfill this objective. Primarily, we closed on the DIRECTV acquisition and we secured a very deep spectrum footprint in the government auction, and that's giving us the network capacity for our TV Everywhere plans, and we acquired two Mexican wireless companies with extensive spectrum holdings and distribution and this gives us access to one of the very best emerging-market economies in the world.

Now we financed the DIRECTV and spectrum purchases at very attractive rates, and we did all of this, put it together, and exited 2015 with a very strong balance sheet, and our dividend coverage has returned to a level that is very consistent with our historic norm.

As you look at our strategy, the core is getting the basic connectivity element right because if you want to be an integrated solution provider, it requires more than anything else world-class, high-speed, secure connectivity, and it can't be just wireless connectivity or broadband to the home or the business, but all connectivity -- wireless, broadband, satellite, VPN, and it all has to be integrated.

So, for example, TV Everywhere. DIRECTV is really accelerating our introduction of next-generation TV, and the DIRECTV content agreements, combined with our networks, is proving to be a very powerful combination. So we can now deliver the best entertainment packages over traditional linear TV or streamed over the Internet to essentially any mobile device.

A couple of weeks ago, we launched a nationwide solution that combines any of our TV entertainment packages with unlimited mobile data so our customers can now stream their video without incurring overage charges. And this is only our first move. You're going to see the offers and the customer experience continue to get better and better as we move through 2016.

We also launched a number of integrated solutions for businesses and I think the best example of this is our Network On Demand service, which lets customers dial their bandwidth up or down literally on demand. And our NetBond service is also having a lot of success and I think this is a beautiful example of an integrated solution. That gives the Company the capability to secure access -- to securely access information from a mobile device over a VPN into virtually any major cloud provider, and that includes Amazon, Microsoft, IBM, or Salesforce.com.

The common thread to all of this is providing our customers with a seamless integrated experience. And again, the core to making all this happen is the network and our LTE network now covers 355 million people and businesses in North America and we expect to hit the 385 million mark by the end of this year.

We are continuing to build out our GigaPower footprint, and we can now deliver speeds up to 1 gig to over 1 million customer locations in 20 markets and we have announced plans to enter an additional 36 markets. We also continue to expand our fiber network to more businesses, so we are really feeling good about our networks and we believe we do have the most comprehensive capabilities now in the industry.

But to compete in today's market, the solutions do have to be global solutions because at the end of the day our customers are global, and that global focus is why we are the leader in serving multinational businesses. In fact, we connect 3.5 million businesses -- that includes nearly all the Fortune 1000, and we do it in almost 200 countries and territories. We have extended our wireless network into Mexico now, and as you're going to see in a few minutes, our growth in Mexico is exceeding all of our expectations.

And also in 2015, we built on our global leadership position in the Internet of Things, and our IoT solutions are not US solutions, they are global solutions. We invested very early in this space and it is paying off. We now have over 26 million devices connected to our network.

We are also a leader in connected cars. We added 1 million of them in the fourth quarter, and recently, we completed a deal with Ford that we believe is going to connect at least 10 million cars over the next five years.

And finally, we are investing aggressively in a network architecture that is going to give us a competitive advantage in cost. We are driving the industry to software-defined networks and I have seen few opportunities over my career to drive down the cost to deliver service like this. We're also on track to deliver at least $2.5 billion in annual DIRECTV synergies by 2018.

And we continue to invest in spectrum. We began last year by investing $18 billion in the auction to significantly deepen our spectrum footprint, and as a result, we now have 40 megahertz of [final] spectrum to deploy over the next few years to support TV Everywhere. But just as important is the impact that such a deep spectrum footprint will have on our cost to build and operate our networks.

So as we look out over the next few years, we are convinced the software defined networks, combined with the DIRECTV synergies and our deep spectrum position, are going to give us an industry-leading cost structure, and our objective is really straightforward. We want to move the most traffic at the lowest cost per bit.

Today, we think we are a Company with no obvious peer. We have a nationwide TV and wireless footprint. Our IP broadband footprint reaches nearly 60 million customer locations. We have end-to-end capabilities in enterprise, world-class distribution, and a globally respected brand, and while all these transformative moves were taking place, we executed pretty well in 2015.

If you look at slide 5, as you see, adjusted EPS growth was solid. Our cash flows were way up. Margins continued to expand and consolidated revenue growth was on track. We ended 2015 with 137 million mobility subscribers, 45 million video subscribers, 13 million IP broadband customers, and an LTE network that is covering 355 million people, and we're seeing nice growth across all of our key product categories.

In the fourth quarter, we had really solid net adds in wireless, satellite, video, and IP broadband.

So to wrap it up, the strategy is working. We have the critical capabilities we need to execute the strategy, and I'm going to hand it over to John now. Then I will come back later to give a full-year outlook for what we see in 2016. So with that, John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Randall, and hello, everyone. It's great to have you on the call.

Let's start by taking a look at the quarter and our financial summary on slide 6. We finished the year strong. We had double-digit growth in consolidated revenues, adjusted earnings, and free cash flow. At the same time, we continue to see margin expansion in every segment of our domestic business.

In the fourth quarter, reported EPS was $0.65 and adjusted EPS was $0.63. That is up more than 12% over last year's fourth quarter. This included adjustments for merger and integration related costs and the annual mark to market of our benefit plans. This strong growth comes even with earnings pressure from our Mexico wireless operations and some deferral of recognition of video revenue.

Consolidated revenues grew to $42.1 billion. That's up more than 22% year over year, mostly due to our acquisition of DIRECTV. That growth comes even with lower equipment sales, as customers chose to hold onto their smartphones for a longer period of time.

During the quarter, the Company aligned DIRECTV's revenue recognition for new customer promotional offers to AT&T's practices. The Company will now recognize revenues from customers reflecting the amounts billed over time. Recognition of expenses will not change. The fourth-quarter impact of this change resulted in lower booked revenues by about $300 million and it had a corresponding impact on income, margin, and a $0.03 impact on EPS as well.

Cash flows continue to be a great story. Free cash flow was more than $3 billion in the quarter and nearly $16 billion for the full year. That brought our free cash flow dividend coverage to about 64% for the year.

Let's take a closer look at our operational highlights, starting with business solutions on slide 7. The biggest news here in our business solutions segment was our dramatic margin improvement. EBITDA margins improved 360 basis points year over year as cost efficiencies far outpaced equipment revenue declines. Equipment sales were down year over year as we sold fewer handsets and less wireline CPE to our business customers. But higher-margin service revenues were essentially flat on a constant-currency basis, with growing strategic services and wireless services largely offsetting legacy wireline declines.

We continue to see stabilization in our wireline data revenues. Total data revenues now comprise nearly 60% of wireline business revenues. Growth in our most advanced data products is keeping pace with declines in legacy data services. Strategic services revenues grew by more than 10% year over year, and when you adjust for foreign-exchange pressure, growth was even stronger, coming in at more than 12%.

We serve the total connectivity needs of our customers, and more and more that means mobility. Mobility in cloud solutions are changing the way business gets done and AT&T is delivering this to customers. We are connecting people, cars, homes, cities, devices, machines, and businesses to the Internet and each other.

We have established ourselves as the world leader in IoT. We signed more than 300 new Internet of Things business agreements in 2015 alone, and recently announced new connected car agreements with Ford and BMW build on our industry leadership in that category. And our new smart cities and connected health initiatives demonstrate how connected devices can help cut costs, grow revenues, boost efficiency, and satisfy customers' needs.

Let's now move to our entertainment group results on slide 8. This is our first full quarter reporting with DIRECTV and the results reflect the growing revenue and increased profitability that we expected to receive from combining these operations. Reported revenues for the quarter more than doubled year over year, mostly due to the DTV acquisition, but our U-verse revenues also showed solid growth.

We also saw exceptional margin expansion, which points directly to the benefits of the acquisition. Our EBITDA margins came in at more than 22%. That is up more than 800 basis points year over year.

We've shifted our marketing focus to driving satellite net adds, and you can see that in our subscriber results. Satellite net adds were 214,000, with our total video net adds for the quarter down just slightly.

We have been really pleased with our growing flow share with DIRECTV. Year-over-year gross adds have been up every month since the deal was closed, thanks in large part to our wider distribution. And we are seeing an increase in satellite customers in our wireline footprint bundling broadband with their video service. Sales of satellite and IP broadband to new customers are up 60% from the end of the third quarter this year. That helped drive an increase of more than 190,000 total IP broadband subscribers in the fourth quarter.

It is still early, but we see a lot more opportunity to use video to drive sales and lower churn for all of our services. Our new unlimited wireless data for combined wireless and TV customers has been very popular since we introduced it two weeks ago. We have already had more than 0.5 million wireless subscribers sign up for the unlimited data plan, and TV net adds are going strong as well.

And we expect to launch a variety of new video entertainment packages this year. These offers definitely add some sizzle to our bundling offers, but the real impact is to build a strong relationship with our customer base. Our goal is a TV Everywhere experience with broad viewer choice both inside and outside the home that is simple and easy for our customers to use.

AT&T is already a leading provider of online video. Our DIRECTV app already allows live video streaming of more than 100 different networks, and by the end of the first quarter, we expect to have nearly all of the top 25 cable networks. We have already seen about a 50% increase in the number of customers using the DTV app since the second quarter of the year. We are driving an OTT capability with our video services, one that provides great choices at a fair price and, as importantly, is also a win-win for the content providers and our integrated offerings.

Now, let's move to our US mobility results on slide 9. As a reminder, AT&T's domestic mobility operations are now divided between the business solutions and consumer wireless segments. For comparison purposes, we are providing supplemental information for our total US wireless operations here.

During the fourth quarter, total net adds came in strong, with 2.2 million new subscribers and with gains in every customer category. That's the third consecutive quarter where net adds have exceeded 2 million.

Almost 1 million of those net adds were branded, which includes both postpaid and prepaid, driving positive phone additions in the quarter. We're putting a lot more focus on branded customers, and with good reason.

Cricket has energized the prepaid space for us. We added more prepaid subscribers than any other carrier in 2015. In fact, we added more subscribers than the rest of the industry combined, and Cricket churn is coming in at industry-leading levels. This helped drive an increase of 213,000 branded phone subscribers in the quarter. Compare that with our postpaid pressure with about 250,000 phones, the vast majority of which were higher churning feature phones with average ARPUs at about $35. All the while, three-quarters of our Cricket gross adds in the fourth quarter were on rate plans that were $50 or higher.

This points to the overall strength of our business and our ability to operate an efficient, smart business in a competitive, mature market.

We also continued to grow our high-value smartphone base, adding about 1 million branded smartphone subs during the quarter. At the same time, we had another strong churn quarter. Total churn was down year over year, once again thanks to our great networks, our quality offers, and our top-notch customer service.

Postpaid churn came in at 1.18% for the quarter, an improvement from the year-ago quarter, and full-year postpaid churn was 1.09%, one of our best years ever. That's an impressive performance at a time when we focused on higher-value subscribers in a heavily competitive market.

And I need to add a point about the Cricket churn. We have seen improving churn throughout the year, even as we shut down the legacy CDMA network and moved subscribers to our 4G LTE network. Fourth-quarter Cricket churn was the best yet, coming in at 3.8%, or a 170-point improvement over last year's fourth quarter and about half when you look at the comparable Leap fourth quarter from two years ago.

Cricket has become a powerful part of our wireless story, and we are very pleased in how it is performing and we expect it to do even more in 2016.

Wireless margins and ARPU are on slide 10. Our relentless efforts to drive efficiency and move our smartphone customer base to the no-subsidy model once again drove record wireless EBITDA margins. You can see this clearly in our operating expenses. While equipment revenues were down more than $700 million, mostly due to the lower upgrade volumes, total cash operating costs were down $1.8 billion, thanks to our sharp focus on cost management and efficiency. That helped increase EBITDA by nearly $900 million in the quarter and drive our best ever fourth-quarter EBITDA service margin of 43.2%.

We also had our best ever full-year service EBITDA margin, coming in at 46.7%. By the way, if you exclude regulatory and insurance fees in service revenues, as some of our competitors do, our full-year number is about 50%.

Total wireless revenue was impacted by lower smartphone sales. Service revenues continue to stabilize. Equipment revenues also were impacted by an increasing number of bring-your-own-device subscribers. We had about 700,000 in the quarter. That includes those who purchased new smartphones through vendor leasing programs or vendor installment programs. BYOD sales are our lowest-cost subscribers and we're happy to have them. They value our quality network coverage and reliability, as well our great selection of rate plans.

Phone-only plus Next ARPU continue to grow at a steady pace, up 4.6% even with a growing number of BYOD subs. The number of smartphone customers on no-device subsidy plans continues to expand. More than two-thirds of smartphone subscribers or nearly 70% are on no-subsidy plans, with about 46% of that smartphone base on AT&T Next plans.

Now, let's look at our international operations. That information is on slide 11. The wireless team in Mexico is really getting after it these days. First, we blew through our year-end 4G LTE deployment target by reaching 44 million POPs. That puts us well on our way to our next benchmark of reaching 75 million POPs by the end of the year and it brings our North American LTE coverage to 355 million people, which is more than any other carrier.

We also launched our rebranding to the AT&T name in several areas, beginning in markets where we've deployed LTE. That includes Guadalajara and Monterrey, with Mexico City slated for April.

And we continue to expand our distribution network. We have added 1,000 new store locations since we acquired these properties earlier in the year.

All of this helped drive strong subscriber growth through the quarter, or nearly 600,000 total net adds, with gains in both prepaid and postpaid.

Mexico financials continue to reflect our operational investment and strong subscriber growth. We expect comparable results in the first half of the year and the investment cycle to continue through 2016.

In Latin America, our DIRECTV operations continue to show solid growth on a local currency basis, but foreign-exchange rates continue to pressure our results. Revenues, ARPUs, and margins are all pressured by FX that are being hampered by challenging economies across Latin America.

Subscriber pressures in Brazil impacted net adds, but even with all this, we generated modest positive cash flow from these operations in the quarter. All in all, we feel very confident that we will be able to create value with this business and with these assets. We are more integrated with the day-to-day operations and we have sold local management teams that are adding stability in a very challenging economic environment.

Now, let's move to the consolidated margins on slide 12. Consolidated margins reflect the overall strength of our business. Adjusted consolidating income margin came in at 16.8% in the quarter. This was a 230 basis-point improvement over the year-ago fourth quarter. And adjusted EBITDA margin was 160 basis points higher than a year ago.

Strong fourth-quarter results helped drive a 130 basis-point improvement in the full-year adjusted operating income margin. That's a tremendous accomplishment for a Company with $146 billion in revenue.

There was some reasons for this improvement -- strong margin expansion in our entertainment group and business solutions, and our focused sales approach and efficiencies in wireless drove strong consumer mobility margin gains as well. We will continue our laser focus on cost reductions. We have driven savings through greater efficiencies, productivity gains, and expense savings.

[Project Vantage] continues to build momentum, as do our digital first initiatives. We are seeing cycle-time reduction and lower call volumes. Software defined networking will radically reshape not only our cost, but also the flexibility of our network deployment. Our margin momentum continues to be strong. Per capita, we continue to expand domestic margins and to cut costs to offset pressure while we are in the investment cycle in Mexico.

Cash flows were outstanding in 2015. Let's take a look on slide 13. We proved our ability to generate cash in 2015 and our ability to have strong free cash flow, even with strong capital investment. In the fourth quarter, cash from operations were more than $9 billion, and we have generated more than $35 billion in operating cash flow in 2015.

Capital investment totaled $6.8 billion for the quarter. This includes about $700 million that we spent in Mexico where we received equipment and are putting it into service in the normal course, but we had financing terms from our vendors that don't require us to pay for it until the end of 2016 or a little bit later.

For the year, we made capital investments of nearly $21 billion. Free cash flow was $3.1 billion. For the full year, it was nearly $16 billion, coming in higher than our increased guidance.

We also continue to tap the securitization market to manage working capital with Next. We received about $900 million in the fourth quarter.

When you combine this with the foregone payments from prior securitizations, the net impact is about $100 million of pressure on cash flow. So, cash flow in and of itself was very strong from operations.

In terms of uses of cash, dividends totaled $2.9 billion for the quarter and about $10 billion for the year, which gave us a payout ratio of 64%. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.31. We ended the year with $5.5 billion in cash and short-term investments. We are proud of our ability to generate cash. This gives us the financial strength to invest in our business, reduce debt, and return substantial value to our shareholders.

Now, I will turn it back to Randall to provide our 2016 outlook.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay, thank you, John.

Last summer, we provided a long-term guidance after we closed the DIRECTV deal, and, look, it really hasn't changed. We are tracking almost exactly on what we told you. And so when you look at 2016, what you can expect is double-digit consolidated revenue growth, adjusted EPS growth in the mid single-digit range or better, stable consolidated margins, with a solid business plan to improve in each segment, even while we are investing in Mexico.

Capital spending will be in the $22 billion range, with our focus on cost efficiencies and SDN creating a downward bias to that forecast, and we expect our free cash flow dividend payout ratio to be in the 70s, with a goal of growing free cash flow this year.

So that kind of wraps it up, and with that, John and Mike and I are glad to stand for questions, so, Tony, we will turn it back to you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: John, maybe just a comment on the service revenue in overall wireless. It should be lapping the big Mobile Share Value push last year. Just trying to get a sense for the trajectory on the year-over-year declines. It looks like it continues to get better. I am assuming we should expect that throughout the year.

And then, secondly, in the entertainment segment, I guess looking at sequential margins versus year over year, it looks flatter sequentially, but there was the impact of the revenue recognition change. I'm just trying to get a sense for what we should be thinking about with margin trajectory there, maybe particularly as you go in there and get more wireless rights for content and maybe where those wireless right content costs flow through the model.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Mike. Let me give you a couple of insights there, first into the service revenues in wireless. We have to wait and see what 2016 brings, but we are expecting it to improve throughout the year, the year-over-year trends.

We continue to see a little optimism in what we are seeing from the customers in demand, but we will -- so we expect to see improvement throughout the year in that service revenue.

On the entertainment margins, let me -- the first point I would like to make is the $300 million revenue deferral did impact margins in this quarter. The margins would have been close to a couple hundred basis points higher if we would have that recognition. That's the first point I would want to make to you.

The second point, what we will see is we will see the merger synergy savings starting to show up in margins in 2016, and specifically most of the $1.5 billion worth of run rate savings we expect to get to by the end of the year we will start seeing coming through the entertainment group. As we go through the year, we will see what happens with other competing interests, but clearly those items are leaving us with the expectation that we will have improving margins in the entertainment group.

MIKE MCCORMACK: John, just as you progress on getting more and more mobile rights for content, how should we think about where those incremental costs for the rights should flow through? Is it entertainment or is it on the mobility side?

JOHN STEPHENS: I would expect they would flow through in the entertainment group.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two things, first to follow up on Mike's question. Can you just remind us, John, what the deferral is and will that impact revenue any further or is this the most you'll need to defer?

And then second, Randall, since 2009 you have been known as a bit of an economic savant. Can you give us an idea of what you're seeing from your customers in the US, both consumer and enterprise, and do you see any signs of economic weakness? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Phil, on the revenue deferral, this has to do with one of our major contracts and one of our customers signed a two-year contract and so we -- previously, DTV had recognized it equally over each month of the contract. We recognize it as we bill it, so we just came to a consistency that brought us to the AT&T methodology. So that $300 million is not in any way, shape, or form lost revenue. It is just deferred. It doesn't change our customer contracts, won't change our cash collection. It is just a deferral.

And additionally, we didn't defer any expenses. We continue to recognize any out-of-pocket expenses with regard to that in the same way we had done before.

PHIL CUSICK: And that's mostly only going to impact 4Q, right?

JOHN STEPHENS: There will be some further impacts throughout next year, but by the end of next year, we will get into the situation where the originating piece and the reversing piece of this will be offsetting, but that will take us through next year.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: And Phil, this is Randall, your economic savant. I have never been called that before.

PHIL CUSICK: Exactly.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: So it won't surprise you what we are seeing. We are seeing some softness when you look at enterprise business on anybody that has anything that touches the oil and gas industry. All of those companies are a little bit defensive right now, as you might guess.

Also, anybody -- the big exporters, people who are exporting who have exposure to foreign currencies, particularly the strong dollar, we are seeing weakness there.

But I will tell you we are netted out. Our revenues held their own on the business side because we are taking share, and NetBond and Network On Demand, we're having a lot of success in the marketplace, and so we are taking share and holding our own, but we are seeing some softness in those areas.

You know, the consumer continues to spend money. In fact, it was a decent holiday season in light of there was really aggressive competition, but the consumer continued to spend money. I might have anticipated -- in fact, I did anticipate -- a little more robust Christmas season because you are seeing energy prices at lows we haven't seen in a long time, and you didn't see the step-up in consumer spending that you might have expected in third and fourth quarter.

But the consumer did continue to spend.

As we look at 2016, we have built this plan around a 2% GDP growth rate in the US, roughly, and there is a lot of science that goes into that, but you can basically turn around and look at the last few years and see it has been 2%. It is not really hard to forecast it these days. We have been fairly tight in terms of hitting our estimates for the last few years.

What I am concerned about, I will be honest with you, is as you look at 2015, there are a lot of things that went the consumers' way and that went the economy's way, not the least of which are energy prices. But even over the last few years, there has been some benefit from 10 million people being put back to work.

And so as we get to the end of 2015, those benefits that we've seen over the last couple of quarters, you look forward, are you going to see those in the future? Probably not. And so, I made a comment last week that got picked up that we are assuming 2%. If you ask me to handicap is there more downside or upside to that, probably downside. But it is probably within a tight range of 2% is what our estimate is right now, Phil.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Randall.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: The first question I wanted to ask was around your strategy in the mobile arena. As you mentioned, Randall, during the prepared remarks, you have unveiled what I assume is the first of many plans integrating your mobile and video anywhere solutions. How should we think about your approach towards the competitive landscape going forward in terms of your go-to-market strategy?

It does seem as though on a relative basis you probably weren't as promotional as some of your competitors and would love to hear your thoughts as we progress through 2016.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: You bet, Amir. So we closed DIRECTV on July 24 and immediately put in place some plans that would be -- were the first phase of integration. We dropped the TV capability into our retail stores and have had nice lifts, as you heard John talk about, going through his remarks. And then January, we had -- we did the unlimited data plan for our TV subscribers.

What you should expect is you're just going to continue to see, as we roll through 2016, capabilities and offers that take advantage of putting the two together, and the customer experience is going to continue to get better and you're going to see offers that we think are unique in the marketplace.

I am not going to get very detailed with you right now, Amir, because we're still in the process of getting some of the really critical content deals secured. But things are coming together very nicely and you're going to see a phased rollout over the next few days, and in fact, within the next 45 days, you'll get your first look at what one of these will look like.

And so, stay tuned, but I think it will be an eventful year for the industry as we roll out new and different kind of capabilities, new and different type programming options for the mobile device, and even new ways to think about how you price in a mobile-centric environment. So, actually I am very energized, and the further we get into it and work with our partners on the content side, the more energized I get about it.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much. And then maybe if I can switch gears to the video side, as you mentioned it seems as though you continue to benefit from healthy DIRECTV net adds, but on a net basis if we look at the total video ads, there has been a bit of a holdback on the U-verse side. How should we think about the opportunity in the video arena going forwards, specifically on how to think about the trajectory of your footprint and potential subscriber opportunity there? As the integration has progressed, are you on the verge of rolling out more converged offerings with broadband and video and how should we think about that opportunity set for you folks?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: So, Amir, I tell you right now we're early in the process. The sales channel is just really starting to get their legs underneath them on how to attach satellite and mobility together. This is a new category, and so we are very, very new in this.

And the performance continues to get better and better in the sales channel. Also, keep in mind that we don't even have the installation work for us up to speed on provisioning this, and so we are just getting the installation and workforce up. We just had -- the latest union contract gave us the rights we needed to push this out across our entire footprint.

And so, you're going to see us continue to get better and better there as well.

As you pointed out, the satellite adds were strong in the fourth quarter, but U-verse churn offset that, so we were slightly negative in total. You'll see that relationship get better, and we are doing some things to shore up the U-verse base because we are focused on the satellite product and so, as a result, you are seeing U-verse churn off. We are doing some things to shore that up. It will improve, not the least of which we did some things on pricing to ensure that we can help begin to mitigate the U-verse churn.

The other thing we did, and it is early, but I think we're going to see some not inconsequential impacts from this, is the unlimited offer for all of our TV customers. U-verse customers can now step into an unlimited data offer, and this is, we think, a hugely retentive offer. It is a great value for our customers to have this type of offer put in front of them.

So, we think you will see the U-verse churn get better. You'll see the subscriber numbers continue to improve as we move through 2016, and the sales channel improves, the provisioning channel improves, and then some of these offers I talked about, some unique offers that will be mobile-centric offers and some unique content available, we think those are going to continue to add momentum to this as well. So bottom line, we think the subscription numbers get better as we go through the course of the year.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for taking the questions.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking the question, and John, just a question on the cash flow outlook that you provided for this year. You obviously gave us some help thinking about the revenue, the EBITDA, and the CapEx piece parts in that calculation. I think you had mentioned some deferred CapEx related to Mexico. I am curious if that is factored into the guidance.

If you can give us any help on how to think about cash taxes with deferred bonus depreciation or extended bonus depreciation and anything else that we need to think about, like pension, that would be very value added. Thanks so much.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure, couple of things. One, with regard to the deferred payments in Mexico, those have been in our plans all along. We continue to work on the cash flow opportunities that we have been doing for a number of years, so those are all in already. That's nothing new here.

Secondly, with regard to bonus depreciation, as we had told the community when we first gave our guidance that we were taking that into consideration, assuming that we would get it passed, but we would meet this guidance even if it didn't get passed. It has gotten passed.

The one point I would make to everyone is that it is now 15 years where bonus depreciation has been in place, and so getting the bonus depreciation extended for five years and getting us that [eternity] is really important, but the creation of benefits from bonus depreciation is now being largely offset by the reversal of prior years' benefits that have been taken by taxpayers, so it is much more of a balancing item there.

With regard to that, the pressures on cash flow do not come from our pension. We had a pension contribution we will make this year, in about $200 million, but that has already been in the plans. That is the only thing that is required. Our pension plan is very well funded, and then we do expect total tax payments to be up this year from a -- on a year-over-year basis.

But as you know from our prior-year filings, our tax payments were rather modest last year, and then, so we would expect those to go up. But all in, we feel pretty comfortable about hitting our guidance and we're certainly working very, very hard to do better on that guidance.

BRETT FELDMAN: Okay, and just to make sure I heard it correctly, and maybe I didn't, but I think you said that this year's CapEx did include some of those deferred payments in Mexico, meaning that it will hit your free cash flow next year, even though you have already recognized the CapEx early on your (multiple speakers)

JOHN STEPHENS: So, the way we will talk about CapEx is like it was this year that it was $20.7 billion, and we will have about that 15% of the service revenues, which is about -- so it gets to be about $22 billion for this year. That will be our CapEx. The working capital impact of paying for some of last year's purchases this year is in our working capital calculations. I think of it separately from CapEx numbers, but yes, it is already in that guidance and we won't be adjusting the guidance for that.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thank you for that color. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe this one is for John or Randall. For the first time in a while, we are looking at some reasonably comfortable headroom on the balance sheet at 2.3 times leverage versus, I think, your historical comfort level limit of 2.5 turns, and for a company of AT&T's size, that is real money.

Obviously, we have the 600 megahertz auction coming up. The New York Post tells us you are buying Time Warner. There is obviously a lot of things that could be on the agenda here including, just sticking to your deleveraging agenda. Could you rank order some of the ways you want to use what headroom appears to be there relative to the deleveraging priorities? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, thanks. With our strong cash flows, we're going to continue to invest in networks, as we have said, keep this quality up and keep these product offerings moving on, and we felt comfortable about doing that within that $22 billion range. We do believe that positions us well.

We do think that includes all our merchant integration activities. We have got a lot of fallow spectrum out there that we've bought over the last few years, so we're in a very good position to be able to operate within those kind of parameters and still provide the highest quality service.

With regard to the cash that is after we have done that investment, we're going to pay our dividends and we're going to continue to be, if you will, loyal and respectful of our shareholders, in accordance with our Board's direction.

Third, we are going to focus on reducing debt levels, but with that, as you do that, you keep your balance sheet strong and keep opportunities available. But that's where we will be focusing.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, right now I think we have been pretty clear that the next couple of years we want to get our debt levels back down to more normal levels for us. We have spiked them a little bit to get the spectrum bought last year, and then also to do the DIRECTV deal, so we're going to spend the next couple of years working the debt back down before we start talking about different capital allocations in terms of share buyback or anything of any magnitude.

DAVID BARDEN: And could we interpret that as being relative to historical comments of being willing to bid, for instance, $9 billion in the 600 megahertz auction? Would those comments, Randall, suggest maybe you're going to take a much more conservative tack as that comes up?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: We will see what the auction brings and how everybody participates, but I haven't been bashful saying if there is an opportunity to get another 2 by 10 at that spectrum, we would pursue it, and so we think we can do that within the guidance John has given here and execute on that.

But we will have to see, David. It is not yet to us really clear what the spectrum footprints are going to look like and whether you can piece together truly a ubiquitous 2 by 10 type footprint, which is really important to us. To be bringing another band of spectrum into our operation, it is going to really important to have a ubiquitous broad footprint.

And so, we will have to look at that, and obviously we're going to have to look at the FirstNet bid that the government has just issued the RFP on. So there are a lot of ways we will evaluate the spectrum scenario, but it is reasonable to assume that we will be active one place or the other.

DAVID BARDEN: Got it. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: James Ratcliffe, Buckingham Research Group.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Thanks for taking the question, two if I could. First of all, just diving a little more into the DTV integration, any incremental thoughts on sizing what the revenue upside there is? I know it's early, but now that you have, for example, some track record regarding unlimited data and you would be able to share data across the two operations.

And secondly, any incremental thoughts on the status of sponsor data and how you expect to see that roll out over the course of the year? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: On the DTV integration, the revenue upside, let me frame it this way. We're pleased with what we have seen so far, specifically the unlimited data and the wireless I mentioned. We have had 500,000 wireless customers sign up for it already, so we are real pleased with it. We think there is great opportunities there.

The timing of it, though, is going to give us reason for some carefulness there, for this reason. For example, Randall mentioned the training of our technicians who do the installs. We are just going through the completion of that now and that's really going to be more of a second half of the year where we see how really effective that is. We have seen a lot more bundling of the satellite with broadband, but we need some more time to make sure that we understand the momentum of that and the progress of that.

Additionally, we are still going through the sales process of training our reps who never sold broadband when they sold satellite before or who sold broadband but never sold satellite before, and, as Randall pointed out, the accounts who sold wireless will have to increase all their sales activities whether in stores or in the call centers.

So all of this is going to take some time for us to really get a track record. I will tell you we're optimistic. I am pleased with the initial results, but giving any guidance on the revenue synergies from that perspective is a little premature.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: On your question on sponsor data, James, I think it is important to think about what we have assembled here. And so between DIRECTV and our Otter Media relationship, we think we have the best premium set of content available to anybody anywhere, and we are getting the rights secured to allow us to begin delivering this over whatever platform the customer wishes. If the customer wants it on a tablet or a smartphone or on a TV, we are getting to the place where we can do that.

Now if you think about the most premium set of content, whether it be sports programming, whether it be binged type programming that has stacking rights and look-back capabilities, whether it be movie libraries or whatnot, it is just a very, very robust set of content that we are piecing together here to be delivered.

I think one would just have to assume that sponsored data would be a critical element on how the customer would take advantage of this, and so we haven't developed -- or announced, I should say -- we are doing a lot of work right now on how we come to market. We have not announced any plans, but I think it would be reasonable to assume sponsored data would be a part of how our customers would take advantage of this kind of content library.

JAMES RATCLIFFE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, perhaps you could give us some sense of what you are including in 2016 guidance for realized synergies and any kind of expectation around what integration costs might be this year.

And then, Randall, following up on that content theme, maybe you can update us on the Otter Media and the joint venture with Chernin and any perspective on whether you want to get deeper into ownership of content more broadly. Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: So Simon, I would say it this way. By the end of the year, we would expect to be on a run rate of $1.5 billion, which is going to be about $125 million a month. That is how we think about it. That is how we did our plans.

We certainly don't mean to imply we're at that level in January, don't want to convey that. We are not. I don't expect that, but we expect it to grow throughout the year.

We did have a very good first five months of getting costs aligned and addressing a lot of the administrative or headquarter -- some of the easier costs to see start getting out, so we did lower that and we are making good progress on the content. And we are making -- and, quite frankly, are shifting to a satellite-based customer basis is helping.

But from your question perspective, I would think of it in that way, that we're going to hit and hopefully exceed the $1.5 billion run rate, which will be $125 million a month by the December time frame, fourth quarter time frame.

With regard to any capital required for those integration costs, that is already included in the $22 billion of capital guidance. And from the expectation of integration costs, while we have some, having given guidance, I would suggest to you this way -- if you think about what makes up our integration savings, our merger savings, content negotiation, staffing, supply chain, the costs to do that are not necessarily significant. It is just a matter of getting it done and doing the business.

So I wouldn't expect those types of merger integration costs to be significant. I will tell you we are still going to have customer-based amortization, trademark tradings amortization, those kinds of normal merger and integration. We're pretty explicit with those in the details we provide in our filings.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: On the content side and specifically, yes, about Otter Media, that's going well. We are still early, but as everybody knows, we are partnered with Peter Chernin, who I happen to think is probably the best content talent on the planet.

And heavily leveraging the Fullscreen acquisition that we did out of Otter Media, Fullscreen is obviously moving into a subscription model. We are really early to see how that progresses, but we're using that platform to do a lot of work for developing what I will call mobile-centric content, content that was designed for the mobile device.

And I'm very optimistic about what the opportunities are there. In terms of other more broader content ownership, there are a number of areas where we have what I will call proprietary content. We own a number of regional sports networks. Some of those we acquired through the DIRECTV acquisition. Others we have acquired over the course of the last year.

We also have a lot of what I will call exclusive content, content that is produced by us, everything from The Dan Patrick Show to a particular network we have on DIRECTV and some series like Kingdom and so forth. And Simon, you should expect us to continue to engage at that level, and as we have success, you'll see us invest more in the areas where we have success, but right now I think our plate is full doing full-scale integration of DIRECTV and bringing it into the mobility channel.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Frank Louthan, Raymond James.

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Can you talk a little bit more on the mobility side about deals with Ford and so forth? Does that include getting maybe beyond new cars, but also getting into the used dealership networks?

And then, on the Mexico side, can you comment on your aspirations for video with those customers there?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, so the Ford deal is exclusively the cars coming off the manufacturing floor, and so those are new cars coming out over now and 2020. Like we said, we're expecting 10 million automobiles to roll off the floor between now and 2020 with our connectivity in it just from Ford.

You bring up an interesting point and that is there is a massive used-car fleet out there that is not connected, and there is actually technologies that are now available. I have a sports car, old sports car, that I now have connected to the Internet and it is actually a fairly elegant solution. And so, there are some capabilities that we are putting into the market -- in fact, we are selling into the market today -- to connect the used-car fleet that is out on the US roads.

And we think that's important because the average age of a car on the road today is 11 years, and so if you really want to grow this business, you need to tap into the used-car fleet. And so, that's a priority for us and you'll see us pursue that.

On Mexico and as it relates to the video opportunity, look, we are fairly convicted that mobile and video are going to be a category that is very, very relevant in the US. And we're early on here in the US, but based on early success, we continue to get more and more convicted that this is going to be an important category. Bringing the two together is going to be important.

And if it is going to be important in the US, we think it will be important in other markets, and Mexico will be no different. As you know, we have a minority share position in the satellite company in Mexico, and hopefully we will be able to do some partnering there, but we do think the video combination with mobile is going to be important in all geographies and all markets.

FRANK LOUTHAN: At some point, does it make sense to take a larger position in that ownership?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: I don't know if our partner has any interest in selling that position, so time will tell. We will just have to see.

FRANK LOUTHAN: All right, great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just two, if I could. First, management in the past has discussed the investments in broadband within the wireline footprint over the last few years. Is there a way you can size the footprint where you have made the upgrades, but you are underpenetrated for broadband share? And help us think about the gap you hope to close, given the speeds that you are now offering.

And then if I could just throw in a second question, I was wondering if you could share some of the segmentations of how you spent capital in 2015, capital expenditures specifically, and how those allocations might change as you look at the 2016 budget? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, Mike, let me take a shot at this. With regard to our wireline footprint, we have about 60 million IP broadband-enabled customer locations for that from a consumer side, and we have got about 15 million IP broadband customers today. These are round numbers. The stack profile will give you the details, but with that, you can see that that is where our penetration right now is about 25%.

The key change here is the fact that we now have a national video product in DIRECTV and a satellite product, and such that we didn't have that before. So many of our, if you will, broadband-capable locations didn't have a video offering; now they do.

And so, as we improve this single truck roll capability, this sales channel capability, all of that, we expect to grow that share, and you can -- we would expect that it would be a significant improvement over where we are at today.

With regard to the expansion that we're doing now with regard to fiber, we are seeing very good results, and the ability to always have video available with the satellite product is going to prove, I think, to be very beneficial for us. So we will expand on that 60 million footprint over the next four years and we will also get to -- some of it will overlap, but we will get to 14 million fiber enabled and, quite frankly, there is a likelihood that we may get to more than that when we are finished.

So that's the way to think about that footprint issue.

With regard to the capital spend, why we don't go into great detail on the capital spend is because in our wireline and wireless footprint and for an integrated carrier, the spends become overlapping, whether you're taking high-speed backhaul to a cell site or whether you're shipping wireless traffic or wireline traffic out of an IP backbone.

But from a general perspective, in 2015 we spent probably about half of our capital in the wireless area, the other half in the wireline area, and if you will the parent of the two, the shared services area. I will tell you the pickup in the fourth quarter in part was due to Mexico and in part was due to the set-top box and the sales opportunities in DIRECTV.

So I will give you that way to think about it. I think that will be a consistent story as we go through the current years. We are investing at a rapid rate in all of our businesses.

The one thing about our wireless business is when you have got the tower network that we have today, the infrastructure that has been there, and you have the spectrum holdings that we have today, you can do great things with quality service, at least our network team can, do great service and continue to meet all the needs and you can be pretty effective with your capital spend.

It's not a situation where there is an investment; it is that much of this investment has been made over the last three years through the spectrum purchases, through the IP Project putting extensive fiber into the ground, and backhaul capabilities, and we're going to continue that, quite frankly, with GigaPower as we put more fiber near other cell sites that we can then get even better high-quality backhaul. So it's a really integrated process, but we -- needless to say, we continue to be very proud of the performance and continue to invest there.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: And don't forget software defined networking continues to push capital requirements down. Over the next three or four years, we think it is going to be significant.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Just a couple follow-ups. John, so maybe just on the cash tax rate, could you give us maybe a little bit more color. I think Verizon said in the high 20% range. I know you reported taxes of 35% over the next few years. There is a lot of moving parts, but is mid-20% range look pretty good? And then a quick follow-up for Randall.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, Tim, we're not going to (inaudible) but let me say it this way. I can completely understand how Verizon might be a similarly situated company could get to that level.

TIMOTHY HORAN: Got you. Randall, clearly there is unprecedented technological change with cloud and artificial intelligence and everything else going on, and you have had a lot of your peers slash CapEx and OpEx spending and Sprint seems like they're really on the road to doing that right now. But we have had a lot of European carriers do the same thing.

I guess the question I get a lot is, how much of a focus is it at AT&T and do you have confidence that you can see some of these benefits? And I guess maybe in that regard, I know you have Project Agile out there, and any kind of update on where you are in that process and ability to cut expenses, that would be great. Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, so when you think about software defined networking, as you think about the merger synergies from DIRECTV, $2.5 billion run rate synergies, you think about all that's going on in just the core business, you call it Project Agile -- John does -- where we're really just streamlining a lot of various operations, moving a lot of the customer interaction at their request to digital, the opportunity is really impressive to continue taking expense out of the business.

I would tell you if you look at just this quarter's results, it ought to give you some degree of comfort in terms of what is possible, even at a company of our size and our scale. Whether it is business solutions segment, our mobility segment, our entertainment group segment, consolidated -- I mean, it was a clean sweep in terms of taking margins up. And we weren't taking them up 5 or 10 basis points; the margins really moved up considerably.

And so, we feel really good about the path we are on and the momentum we have on the cost side of taking costs out of the business.

On the capital spending side, look, this is a unique opportunity. We're at a place where a lot of things are converging in terms of maturity that is going to create some incredible opportunities as we go forward. These ubiquitous high-speed mobile networks, they are here and they are ubiquitous. They are low latency. Combine that with cloud, combine that with data analytics capabilities that are available to the masses, right, the world of Big Data is here and it is available to everybody.

And then, sensors, the sensor technology, the ability to actually put in service sensors at virtually no -- the cost is nominal to put these sensors in place, millions upon millions of the sensors.

All of this, these four elements coming together at one time is a massive opportunity, and people not thinking about how to take advantage of ubiquitous mobility, high speed, low latency networks with cloud, with data analytics, with this sensor technology are going to miss it. And we think we are at a place right now where we have a unique position on bringing all this together and creating growth.

We're going to invest through this cycle. We're going to invest in video and making sure we can deliver video to our customers. We think that's going to be a huge opportunity, and expanding our footprint into Mexico. All of these are converging, we think, to give us a growth platform to the next four or five years that is unique.

So, we are trying to be prudent. Our downward bias on an incremental basis of capital, as we continue to emphasize that, we are being more and more efficient with our capital spend. John pointed out the implications of spectrum. Don't miss this. When you deploy these 2 by 10 megahertz blocks of spectrum, the efficiencies it brings to building and operating mobile networks is significant. And we think we're in a very unique position in that regard, too.

So I said in my opening comments and I will say it again, our intention is to deliver over these networks the most traffic at the lowest cost per bit to deliver. That's our objective and that's the path we are headed down, so we feel good about being able to achieve that.

So, Jim, thanks for the question and I also thank everybody for your participation on the call. We are off and running with the DIRECTV acquisition and Mexico. Those are going well, and we feel good about where we are as a business and looking forward to 2016. So thank you for your interest.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you all; take care.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160128ec1q00002
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,694 words
   PD
22 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter 2015 earnings call. (Operator Instructions). I will now turn the conference over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations, Mike Viola. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
MIKE VIOLA, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Okay. Thank you Kathy. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our third-quarter conference call. Thank you for joining us today. With me on the call is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. John is going to provide an update with perspective on the quarter and then we will follow that with a Q&A session.

Let me remind you that our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website and that is AT&T.com/investors.relations. The first slide I have got I need to call your attention to the Safe Harbor statement. Before we begin, as you guys know, it says that there could be some comments today that might be forward-looking and as such they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our results may differ materially and additional information is available on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website.

With that I will turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens, to discuss our financial and operational highlights.

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Mike, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in AT&T. Before we discuss the quarter, I'd like to take a moment and do a quick reset of what we have put in place at AT&T. With the close of our DTV acquisition we became a unique US competitor. We are the first scaled communications and video provider to offer customers fully integrated nationwide products. Our focus is on profitable growth and we believe that we have in place the products and the platforms that will enable our success.

First, you are probably familiar with our new operating segments: Business Solutions, Entertainment & Internet Services, Consumer Mobility and International. These segments are built on a series of investments that have set the stage for a new kind of company. Our network investment for the last three years is unprecedented. At a time when customers value and need connectivity more than ever our integrated high-speed wireless and wireline IP networks are in place, ready to meet the growing data demand.

We invested in a deep spectrum position. When you combine the spectrum we bought in the AWS auction along with the WCS spectrum we already own we have 40 megahertz of spectrum in the pipeline that we can use to meet growing customer demand, plus we have added our spectrum from Leap. This provides an efficient way to meet the increasing demand for mobile data. We are also investing in next-generation software defined networks. We plan to virtualize and control more than 75% of our network by 2020 using cloud infrastructure and SDN.

Behind all of this is our focus on profitability. Our improving margins are due in large part to our ability to reduce costs and manage our customer base including letting our customers manage the smartphone handset cycle. Project Agile savings are coming through. Automation and digital first have reduced customer call volumes by an average of 2 million calls a month. Simplified offers help as well, so do the simple blocking and tackling efforts of expense controls, getting it right the first time and working capital efficiencies.

We also are being smarter in growing revenues. We have exited some low-margin businesses such as global hubbing. We have seen increasing capital efficiencies not just with lower trailing operating expense, but also driving lower unit cost as we continue to invest in our world-class networks. In effect we are doing more for less and our expected cost synergies from DIRECTV give us even more runway to reduce costs.

We are uniquely positioned as a company. No other company has the assets and capabilities in place that we do. We are confident that our investments have positioned us with a sustainable and efficient long-term leadership position. With that as background let me cover our consolidated financial summary which is on slide 4.

Let me begin by reminding you that third-quarter results include DIRECTV operations since our acquisition as of July 25. These results exclude the first 24 days of DIRECTV operations in July. Our financial results this quarter provide further support that our strategy is on target. Consolidated revenues, margins and adjusted earnings all delivered solid growth in the quarter and our cash flows were exceptionally strong.

In the third quarter our adjusted EPS was $0.74, that is up nearly 14% over last year's third quarter. This includes adjustments for mostly non-cash Cricket network decommissioning and DIRECTV merger-related costs. The strong growth comes even with earnings pressure from our Mexico wireless operations.

Consolidated revenues grew to $39.1 billion, that is up nearly 19% year-over-year mostly due to our acquisition of DIRECTV. But we grew revenues even if you exclude DIRECTV. And again, this number does not include the first 24 days of DIRECTV revenue as we are reporting under GAAP accounting. If you add those revenues to our GAAP number, consolidated revenues for the quarter would have been more than $41.2 billion.

Besides DIRECTV we also had growth from solid gains in our Business Solutions segment, including strategic business services and data, and strong IP data revenue growth in our Entertainment & Internet services segment.

We also had another strong quarter generating cash. Cash from operating activities for the quarter totaled almost $11 billion, up more than 20% over last year's third quarter, and free cash flow was $5.5 billion. That brought our free cash flow dividend payout ratio to 57% for the year. And when you take a look at the last two quarters you can see that we are delivering the financial results that we expected when we started to transform our business.

Combine the second and third quarters and you will see adjusted EPS up more than 12%, $20 billion of cash from operations and $10 billion of free cash flow and record mobility EBITDA service margins in each quarter. Those are the kind of financial metrics we are shooting for and we firmly believe we are positioned to keep that rolling.

Now let's take a look at our operational highlights starting with Business Solutions on slide 5. Our Business Solutions segment includes both wireless and wireline results from our business customers. Mobility is the way business gets done these days and going to market with a total connectivity solution plays to the strengths of our Company. We can see the benefits of this approach in this quarter.

Business wireless and strategic services revenue growth more than offset declines in legacy wireline products. Wireless revenue growth was driven by gains in both wireless service and equipment revenue. Margins were an even better story. Our focus on profitable revenue growth and cutting costs from the business drove a nearly 300 basis point year-over-year improvement in EBITDA margins.

Breaking this segment down further, we saw a revenue growth in three of our four customer categories: enterprise, small business and the public sector. Our business wireline revenues were down due to pressure from legacy services, but we continue to see growth stabilization in our wireline data revenues. Total data revenues grew for the fourth consecutive quarter and now comprise nearly 60% of wireline business revenues.

Growth in our most advanced data products is outpacing declines in legacy data services. Strategic business services revenue grew by more than 12% year-over-year and, when you adjust for foreign exchange, growth was even stronger coming in at more than 15%.

We also have improving year-over-year wireline small business trends the last few quarters and that continued in the third quarter. Plus when you include Mobility Solutions we actually grew small business revenues. This gives you a better idea of how our Business Solutions team is competing and winning.

Mobility is just one advantage we bring to the business market. We continue to drive fiber deeper into our wireline network. We have deployed fiber to 950,000 new business customer locations. As you can see in our business results, we are just beginning to tap this growth opportunity.

Our move to software defined network architecture is now not only allowing us to add compelling new services such as NetBond and Network On Demand, but it is also helping us reduce cycle times and move to a lower cost capital and operation structure.

Network On Demand has been met with strong customer response. The product allows customers to adjust network bandwidth as needed in real time. Today it is available in more than 170 cities driving improvement in cycle times and we have already signed more than 275 customer deals. Business Solutions focus is making the Network On Demand, the office mobile and the cloud highly secure. That is how we are running our business and we are excited by the results.

Now let me talk about our Entertainment & Internet Solutions results on slide 6. This is basically our former consumer wireline business and the DIRECTV US operations. Even though we had DIRECTV only for part of the quarter, the results reflect the growing revenue and increased profitability that we expect to receive. Reported revenue almost doubled year-over-year, but even more dramatic was the improvement in margins.

Our EBITDA margins came in at more than 22%. That is up more than 800 basis points year-over-year. Essentially we have converted a quality video business with limited scale into an industry leader earning solid margins through our DIRECTV acquisition. And we think there is plenty of room to improve even more with the expected cost synergies from the DTV deal.

During the past few weeks we have reached a multiyear agreement with Viacom for U-verse and DIRECTV subscribers and we believe we are on a path for the best content pricing going forward. Our approach is to develop a win-win situation for both us and the content providers and encourage them to look at our wireless and broadband assets to widen their distributions. Early results have been promising.

We are also seeing some early success on the revenue synergies. For example, we are selling DIRECTV in virtually all our 2,200 Company-owned stores. The next step is launching certified dealers and online as well as ramping up sales in our call centers. It is starting to make an impact. DIRECTV net adds picked up shortly after the deal closed and were solid throughout the rest of the quarter. That drove 26,000 satellite net adds post deal close. We now have more than 25 million video subscribers in the US.

It is important that we do this right coming out of the gate. We have been holding back much of our cross-selling promotions as we train service reps and technicians for a premium single service experience so we will see the benefit of those strategies impact future quarters. As expected, U-verse video subscribers declined in the quarters. Net adds dropped with fewer promotions and shifting our focus to the lower content cost DIRECTV platform.

We added 192,000 IP broadband customers in the quarter as migrations from our DSL base continued to slow. U-verse video losses also put some pressure on broadband numbers due to our high attachment rates. But we are confident we can work through this as our single service experience for broadband and satellite is rolled out.

As we said, it is early in our integration of DIRECTV. We don't even have a full quarter of results, yet our integration efforts are on or ahead of target and early results indicate this deal will prove to be everything we thought it would be and more.

Now let's move to our Mobility results on slide 7. AT&T Mobility operations are now divided between the Business Solutions and the customer wireless segment. That information is in the investor briefing and stat profile. For comparison purposes the Company is also providing supplemental information for its total domestic wireless operations.

Let's start first with the total domestic wireless operation's financials. We have a compelling value proposition, great network, superior customer service and fair pricing. All this sometimes gets lost in the competitive noise. Our focus is to provide the best customer experience while increasing profitability and not just chase customer counts.

Our third-quarter results drive that point home. We had our highest ever wireless service EBITDA margins at 49.4%. Our consumer mobility business helped drive that with service margins of more than 50%. AT&T Next sales are a big part of that success, but we also have been very aggressive in taking costs out of the business and increasing efficiencies in our Cricket operations.

Total wireless revenues were flat year-over-year. Lower year-over-year smartphone upgrade volumes impacted equipment revenues and Mobile Share Value plans did the same to service revenues. As expected, with most of the conversion to Mobile Share Value plans behind us, we saw increasing stability with our service revenues which were essentially flat with second-quarter levels.

We also continue to see steady growth of AT&T Next and mobile share value plans. About two-thirds of our postpaid smartphone base is on no subsidy pricing with more than 40% on Next. That gives us substantial opportunity to continue to grow equipment revenue as these customers upgrade their smartphones. For the quarter, nearly 80% of the smartphone sales were on Next or BYOD.

We also continue to see growing phone only ARPU plus Next which increased by nearly 5% year-over-year. We also turned in another strong net add quarter as postpaid tablets, Cricket and the connected car drove our highest net adds in nearly five years. Those details are on slide 8.

Total net adds came in at 2.5 million as we continue to see the impact of our Cricket acquisition and connected car strategy. The Company added 289,000 postpaid subscribers with about 620,000 tablets and computing devices. We also had a record 1.6 million connected device net adds; most of these were connected cars where we added about 1 million.

Or perhaps the biggest story in the quarter had to be our continued strength in premium prepaid. This has been a remarkable turnaround story for us. We added 466,000 prepaid voice subscribers in the quarter after losing subscribers in the year ago third quarter. These subscriber gains came from both Cricket and our GoPhone products. We also completed our Cricket network conversion in the quarter.

We are seeing Cricket deliver great ARPUs, in fact the ARPU from Cricket smartphone net adds is nearly $10 more than our postpaid feature phone ARPU losses. We continue to grow our branded smartphone base. We added 1 million in the quarter. Branded voice subscribers were also positive in the quarter. Total churn was down year-over-year thanks to lower prepaid churn even with shutting down the Cricket network.

Postpaid churn for the quarter was up year-over-year as we focus on higher value subscribers. However, year-to-date postpaid churn is running at 1.06%, just slightly higher than last year's best ever full-year churn of 1.04%.

Here is another way to look at churn. We are adding premium prepaid subscribers whose ARPU is higher and subsidy costs are lower than postpaid feature phone subscribers who have the highest postpaid churn. And our success in the prepaid market is resulting in improvement in total churn.

Cricket gives us a quality prepaid offering for the more value conscious customer. Same great network, quality customer service and the flexibility prepaid delivers with subscriber acquisition costs that are much lower than our postpaid voice. Now let's look at our international operations. That information is on slide 9.

Our international segment provides wireless services to Mexico and satellite entertainment services in Latin America. Let's start with Mexico. We are taking the first steps in our investment cycle in Mexico and pushing hard to replicate the same great 4G LTE network experience there that we have in the United States.

So far we are making great progress. By the end of the third quarter we have already covered about 29 million people with our 4G LTE network. And as of today we now cover more than 30 million. This puts us on plan to reach 40 million by the end of the year and provide a high-quality platform to sell on.

Mexico's financials reflect our network investment and the work being done to bring Iusacell and Nextel's operations together. This is the heavy lifting of the wireless business. We have done it before and we are confident we can do it again successfully.

We are also confident that we will grow market share. We have a great leadership team in place and a solid plan not only to deploy the highest quality network, but deliver a superb customer experience as well. It is a great opportunity and the potential synergies of a 400 million POP North American calling area make it even better than we first imagined.

Our Latin American DIRECTV operations are showing solid growth on a local currency basis, but foreign exchange rates, including our decision to adopt the SIMADI rate in Venezuela, are pressuring our results. Revenues, ARPUs and margins are all pressured by FX and subscriber results are being hampered by challenging economies in the region.

But importantly, our Latin American businesses have cash flows that allow us the opportunity to better position our operations. We will continue to work through these headwinds and work on operational efficiencies in Latin America.

Now let's move to consolidated margins on slide 10. Our focus on profitable growth is clearly seen in our consolidated margins. Adjusted consolidated operating margins came in at 20.3% in the quarter. This was a dramatic improvement over the year ago third quarter and adjusted EBITDA margin was nearly 200 basis points higher than a year ago. There were several reasons for this improvement.

First, the DIRECTV acquisition increased the profitability of our pay-TV business, but just as important was our focused sales approach in wireless and U-verse video. Project Agile savings also are coming in ahead of plans. Our simplified offers and increased efforts to take care of customers on the first call has produced results.

Call volumes in our mobility centers continue to drop down an average of 2 million calls a month when compared to the year ago third quarter. We also have been highly effective with our cost optimization efforts that has helped drive down cost for access and in our supply chain.

We are also keeping an eye on the force by minimizing outsourcing expenses. Overall force has been managed through voluntary retirement programs, normal attritions and normal reductions in operations. Trailing operating expenses from capital investments also are down year-over-year. We also have been highly efficient with our capital spending and unit costs are decreasing, essentially doing more for less.

All of this adds up and DIRECTV gives us an opportunity to expand margins. We have our target to get to $2.5 billion or more in savings. We already are realizing some of that in our content and supplier relationships. We really like our momentum here and we are confident we can continue to expand margins and cut costs even with pressure from our international operations. We also believe healthy cash flows are fundamental to our success. Let's look at slide 11 for those details.

We continue to execute and deliver strong cash flows. In fact, we are increasing our free cash flow guidance for the year. In the third quarter cash from operations totaled $10.8 billion, that is our best cash generation in 12 quarters, and we generated $26.7 billion in cash year to date. Capital expenditures totaled $5.3 billion, about the same as last year's third quarter. Free cash flow was $5.5 billion and $12.8 billion year to date.

In terms of uses of cash, dividends totaled $2.4 billion which gives us a dividend payout ratio of 44% for the quarter and 57% for the full-year. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.28 which was better than our original expectations.

Our focus is on maintaining a strong balance sheet. We paid down more than $5 billion in debt early and we still have more than $6 billion of cash on hand. These strong cash flows are a fundamental part of our business. This gives us the financial strength to invest in our business, reduce debt and return substantial value to our shareholders.

Now let me close with a quick summary and updated guidance on slide 12 before we get to your questions. First, let's address guidance. We are increasing our full-year EPS outlook to the $2.68 to $2.74 range. We also now expect free cash flow to be in the $15 billion range or better this year. All other full-year guidance is reaffirmed. Our focus on profitability is a big reason we are able to do this. In the quarter we saw growing revenues, expanding margins and double-digit adjusted EPS growth.

But just as important was our ability to generate cash from our business. Cash from operations was strong and free cash flow gave us excellent dividend coverage. We are seeing positive signs in our largest segment, Business Solutions. Customers appreciate our integrated solutions approach and are migrating to our newest software defined network services. We also saw our highest ever wireless service EBITDA margins with an incredible turnaround story in prepaid unfolding.

And we closed the DTV acquisition in the third quarter and the integration process is on target and positioned to exceed expectations. This is an exciting time for us. We believe we have the pieces in place to redefine our business and our industry. With that, I will turn it back to Mike so we can get back to your questions.

MIKE VIOLA: Okay, Kathy, so we are ready for the Q&A. And if you can queue up the first question we would appreciate it.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Wanted to touch upon the commentary around cash flow, John, if I may. If we take a look at your raised outlook for the year, it does seem as though there is a little bit of a tempering in the cash generation in the fourth quarter. I would love to hear about what your spending priorities are and, more specifically, how to think about the longer-term cash generation capabilities of the joint entity.

JOHN STEPHENS: A couple of things. One, as you know, there is always some seasonality in the fourth quarter with the holiday sales in our wireless business with the purchase of handsets and so forth. So there is always some seasonality. As you would find also with our wireline, particularly our large business segment. Also we generally have larger tax payments at the end of the year than we do early on.

So those are the things that are impacting us but I would tell you if you do kind of a year-over-year comparison to where we are at and what we are projecting with regard to the $15 billion range or better, I think you will see that we are continuing to have really good cash flows throughout the rest of this year.

Secondly, with regard to future years, we would stand by what we have said earlier. That is that we expect free cash flow to provide us with a dividend payout ratio that is in the 70s. We are not moving away from that, we are not shying away from that at all and expect that to continue to be the case.

We are certainly proud of these results and glad that we exceeded what we had promised. But we are going to be careful and prudent in predicting our results as we go forward. But we are real excited about where we stand and the future cash generation of this business.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much. Then if I may a follow-up here in thinking about the joint entity moving forward, particularly when it comes to the potential opportunities with positioning the Company and targeting sort of your end markets. At your analyst update you had highlighted that there are areas for potential cross synergies -- revenue synergies and opportunities.

Specifically I am thinking about the 15 million DIRECTV households that don't have access to AT&T wireless services. I was wondering if you could give us some color in terms of how you plan on going after that opportunity and how we should think about leveraging the breadth of the full portfolio to target sort of areas where you may have one subscriber on one service and not on the other.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take that quickly. First of all, the first revenue synergy that we have really gone after and we've seen good success and quite frankly we are very excited about the results is in the cross-selling of DIRECTV of the satellite product in our company-owned stores. We have about 2,300 company-owned stores and virtually all of them are actively selling DIRECTV now. And some of them have never sold a video product before.

So we had to do some training and some learning. But what we found as we came through the quarter, we were able to sell more and more out of those stores and we got very optimistic about it and it gives us optimism for the fourth quarter. So that sales effort and that first line of synergy, if you will, from revenue opportunities from the retail distribution chain is working and we are real optimistic about it.

The second one, with regard to cross selling DIRECTV in the wireless customers, we needed to go through a process of making sure our privacy policies and a bunch of other administrative policies were lined up consistently so customers had a seamless experience and an easy experience.

We have done all that and I think we have now got in place one of our call centers to service those customers on an integrated basis and we are moving forward with starting to sell that. Based on the really great news we saw from the retail chain we are really optimistic about seeing those sales results unfold in the fourth quarter and next year.

The last thing is our service technicians have been installing broadband for us or U-verse for us but they haven't been installing DIRECTV. So we have been putting them through a training program and we are expecting that to roll out -- the first set of technicians to roll out after fully trained on installing satellite in the home in probably November or so, the early part of November, such that we will then be able to sell a single truck roll installation for broadband and video.

We are very excited about that, it will be a measured approach, we are going to have to -- we don't have everybody trained on the first day, but we are excited about what that will bring and think that will bring some not only good performance in the fourth quarter, but quite frankly really look forward to that kind of performance, positive performance and impact next year. So that is kind of the way we are thinking about some of those things.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for taking the questions.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Great. If we could focus a little bit on the guidance. First of all, John, is it possible for you to give us sort of a where we are on a year-to-date basis in terms of the $2.68 to $2.74? And then maybe what's driving the change in terms of -- is it just wireless margins? They were definitely ahead of where we were. Or are you realizing synergies faster or are there any other moving parts? That would be great. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So we are at the $2.09 mark today, and so that was ahead of our prior plans. As you know the $0.74, I will say it was ahead of our most recent plans. That has really been driven by cost efficiency and it is driven by savings across the board, whether it is lower number of calls into the call centers, whether it is the really top-notch performance of our digital first initiatives, whether it is the streamlining of our installation process through what we call Project Halo or high automation low overhead process, whether it is the software defined networks.

All of those things, whether it is just blocking and tackling, taking calls into the call center and getting answers right the first time -- all of those things, all of those things are driving cost savings. And we have seen some better performance, as I mentioned, in our Business Solutions.

Our Business Solutions team is really doing well in a tough economy particularly in the enterprise and the public sector space, but really well in the small business space and that gives us optimism. As we mentioned, with wireless you were seeing growth in that area. But we are seeing the acceptance of our Network On Demand, our NetBond, our software defined networks all moving customers in a positive direction.

So, it is all of those things giving us optimism for the fourth quarter. With that being said, certainly wireless and its performance goes without question, that it is helping drive earnings performance.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks. John, maybe just dig a little bit into the churn commentary. Your thoughts on whether or not we are seeing a spike up in involuntary. And then how does that sort of pace out if we look at the feature phone subs, are those the ones I am assuming most at risk there?

And then secondly, just on the ARPU side, I know last quarter you benefited from year-over-year easy comps. I am assuming as we go into the fourth quarter we should sort of restart that trajectory and year-over-year declines getting better?

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take them separately, Mike. On the churn first and foremost, yes, the feature phone churn is sitting us and having an impact on us and those are decisions we made not to chase those customers. Can't make the math work on not only the pricing for those customers but the impact on our base.

But secondly, we believe that we are picking that up and showing tremendous improvement in the prepaid space with Cricket, so we are seeing total churn come down which I think is really important.

With regard to ARPUs, we did have an easier comparison in the second quarter of 2015 to second quarter of 2014 because of some promotional activities that took place in the second quarter of 2014. But we have seen stabilization in our ARPUs and in our total service revenue, so we feel optimistic about the business going forward.

But once again, we are going to be focused on profitable growth, not just chasing customer counts or specific targets. We are going to really be focused on just getting the most profits out of the business.

MIKE MCCORMACK: John, just a quick follow-up on the churn commentary. Is there anything happening on the involuntary side that you are seeing there?

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, I wouldn't turn you to that. We haven't seen a significant change in bad debts I would like to (inaudible) I wouldn't point to that. Our customer base is quite frankly -- we are very lucky to have the quality customer base we have. We are very fortunate.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. So first on EPS, should we be thinking for 2016 of the mid-single-digit or better off of the $2.71 midpoint? Or should we be thinking about it a different way given the DTV deal? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So we will take it this way, we are not changing our guidance for 2016 going forward. So the mid-single-digit growth rate is still good. I'm not going to refer to -- it is still good even with this adjusted guidance, updated (multiple speakers).

PHIL CUSICK: So $2.71 is the right starting point? Thanks. And then on Project Agile, can you give us an update on what sort of the overall cost-cutting level is here and how we should think about that pacing in the next few years?

JOHN STEPHENS: I would say that we are going to expect it to continue growing over the next few years. What we had said originally was that we were shooting for $3 billion of cost savings. I would suggest to you that we are probably somewhere between the third and half of the way there. And that we plan to at least get there, get to that total target or exceed it. And then I would point to the $2.5 billion of targeted DTV merger synergies.

And certainly based on what we know now we expect to see us get there or exceed those. So those would be the two points. I would hope that we could exceed the Project Agile targets based on the progress we have made so far, these efforts do take time and investment. We have been spending that time and investment over the last couple years to get here. We are seeing the results pay off and we are going to keep our focus in this direction, but we would hope to be able to exceed it.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good evening. John, can you talk a little bit about the video momentum and you sort of went through some of the channel changes here. You had -- on a net basis you did have subscriber losses. But I think you said before that you are hoping to grow your video subscribers over time.

So, perhaps you could just take us through the quarter. And you showed some good gross adds on the DTV side. What is going on there with churn and when do you expect to return to positive video adds? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Good question. I think we had a slide on this with a chart that can kind of tell you what was going on. Prior to the deal there was some real pressure in the video -- satellite video area. There was some -- performance was less than it had been last year. And then as you see -- coming out after the merger and after we started rolling out sales in the stores you can see that we really picked up the trend and we expect that to continue.

Secondly, with the rollout this quarter of the, if you will, one truck roll or single service experience where we can install TV and broadband at the same time, we not only expect the satellite TV to pick up, but we also expect the broadband -- IP broadband to pick up because people buy those things together.

And so, we are hopeful that we are going to see -- we will be able to show you some improvements and trend improvements continuing off of the third quarter in the fourth quarter. Won't make any predictions about specific levels, but we are optimistic in what we have seen so far. We think the trends are headed in the right direction. And we think the slide that we put together that shows that differentiation between 2014 and 2015 will give you a good insight into that.

SIMON FLANNERY: And the U-verse decline, is that sort of run rate or is that all the gross adds shifting to DIRECTV or is that a churn issue as well?

JOHN STEPHENS: U-verse a couple of things. One, certainly the lower cost platform has been our first choice for net adds. Two, because of our focus on profitability we really got away from promotional pricing and those customers who were cost sensitive that just had a propensity to churn -- when you first put those steps in place we saw a little bit of a higher churn in the second quarter, we are seeing a little bit higher in the third quarter because of that disciplined approach.

But I would tell you I think we still have a solid, very good, very high quality customer base in U-verse and we are certainly looking to continue to serve those customers with the best products and services. So I think we are focused on lowering churn and keeping those customers quite satisfied.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a quick point of clarification and then a question. You talk about the fulfillment accounting methodology change in the slide, is that your previous methodology change from August or was there something new?

JOHN STEPHENS: That is the same change. And if I could before you ask your question let me kind of give you guys some insights on it. On a year-over-year basis in this quarter the fulfillment accounting had about a $0.02 impact. That is the differential between applying it to DIRECTV and U-verse this quarter as opposed to just applying it to the U-verse product last third quarter of 2014.

And so, that did give us some help. Additionally, in this quarter I want to point out we had about $0.01 of help from the CAF funding activity that went on and what we applied for. By the same token we had about $0.01 of hurt or pressure from the Mexico operations that we didn't have last year. And if you look at our income tax expense, except for setting aside anything that we treated otherwise there is about $0.02 of income tax pressure, EPS pressure from income taxes.

So, when you look at the fulfillment accounting and the other kind of unique items that occurred, they kind of balance off with the CAF funding and fulfillment accounting generating about $0.03 of benefits and Mexico and the income taxes generating about $0.03 of pressure.

So, we treated those as going -- because they are going to be going forward, because they are going to be continuing we wanted to make sure I pointed that out. But that being said, Brett, I interrupted you before you got to ask your question. I apologize.

BRETT FELDMAN: No, that was helpful. The question is we have a lot of new data points and disclosures that we have fun modeling tonight. But one of the things we see here is we have video ARPU and we have IP broadband ARPU trends in your new entertainment segment.

And I guess as you think about your strategy going forward, your bundling strategy I mean do you have any guidance you can offer us to think about the right way to think of the trajectory of those two key items because they are so critical to the revenue outlook for that segment?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, I think we are going to be looking to continuing to protect and improve on the trends that we have seen, so growing those ARPUs. But likewise with these assets that we have in place I would suggest to you that our ability to capture the market -- we are in a very good position to capture the market.

Now that we have video where we had broadband before without any video and now that we have broadband where DIRECTV had video but didn't have broadband before. [So I want] to suggest to you that we are going to look for profitable growth and focus on that, but we are excited, we are positive about the fact that in some of those cases we have some growing ARPUs.

BRETT FELDMAN: So just to be clear it sounds like you are really excited about the opportunity to add more customer, more revenue-generating units, that is going to be a big piece of how we think about shaping revenue growth through that segment?

JOHN STEPHENS: We are very much -- we're very excited about the ability to add customers -- absolutely. I don't want to suggest that we are not going to focus on profitable customers. Certainly are, but we are very excited about the opportunities.

I will go back to the cross-selling opportunities, I will go back to -- we have got high, high quality video products and we have a high-quality wireless network and a high-quality broadband capabilities and they have capacity in all of them. And so, that is a great way to expand your profits and by expanding the customers on those investments that you have already completed.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thank you for the color.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. I guess two if I could. Just first, John, a little bit following up on that question just in terms of kind of looking at the new way that AT&T is presenting itself to the marketplace, should we be looking at modeling the wireless business separately in consumers business as giving us two very unique pictures of two very unique businesses?

Or is this really just AT&T wireless the way it has always been run and we really should be just thinking about dividing it between the two pieces? That would be the first one.

And the second one is on CapEx, there are so many now new parts to the business. Could you kind of give us how CapEx is now being allocated between the Latin America, the Mexico, the domestic business units and how we should think about all those different pieces trending? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So a couple things. One, David, for investor and [analystees] we provided total wireless and then provided the consumer wireless the ability to get to the business wireless. We have tried to be very upfront with regard to our financial presentation, so hopefully we have been successful at that, but we tried to do that to make sure you had that information.

Two, I would suggest to you that as you look at it the margins and the EBITDA and profitability -- they are certainly different but they are not materially different, they don't significantly skew one way or the other. So I would make that observation for you.

With regard to how you model, I'll leave that to you guys modeling. I can tell you the way we focused on it is what the business relationships were selling and what our consumer relationships were selling and that is how we focused on it. But I think the information is there to do it either way. And I think it is going to be a matter of what you are most comfortable with.

As we go forward and we see the platform we built with connected devices start showing more growth even than it already has it will be beneficial for everyone to have this split.

With regard to CapEx, I won't get into specific dollars on a quarterly basis, but I will give you these insights. On DTV Latin America, our Latin America properties, I would expect that they will be generally self-sufficient, that the cash flows that they generate will be self-sufficient to cover their CapEx needs.

I would suggest to you if we customer growth opportunities we will be prudent about that and make sure that we don't miss out on a good customer. But generally speaking it is going to be self-sufficient from a cash perspective.

On Mexico I would suggest to you that the $3 billion we announced some months ago with regard to the build out is still a good number. We started on that process. I won't tell you that every POP, every 4G LTE POP cost the same amount to create. Some of the networks were more advanced and so some of the earlier achievement may be at a more efficient cost -- unit cost.

But I would suggest to you the $3 billion is still a good number. And then we will continue to invest, albeit at a slower rate, because we built the platforms out. We will continue to invest in fiber and wireless capacity and in success-based capital for our satellite video product much in the same way you would have seen us in the past taking into account the fact that the ramp up in CapEx for VIP is now behind us.

We are 950,000 business customer locations passed with fiber, we committed to 1 million, we will get to the 1 million but that is the only piece that isn't done.

DAVID BARDEN: Got it. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Jeff Kvaal, Nomura.

JEFF KVAAL, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Yes. Thank you all very much. I was hoping that we could spend a bit more time talking about churn. It seems as though there are some natural feature issues that are there on the postpaid side anyway, prepaid is faring quite well. Could you help us understand if we should be expecting more of that across the industry? Is this an AT&T specific item that will stick with us for a few quarters or how we should see that?

And then secondly, I am wondering on the DIRECTV synergies what might be the first opportunity that you would have to update us on whether you are on or ahead of plan for that $2.5 billion? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure. On the feature phone phenomenon I would tell you that, yes, our base of feature phones continues to get smaller. So over time we will lessen the impact this has on our churn.

Secondly, Jeff, I would leave it to you guys to talk about or to decide whether others in the industry are taking this approach. It appears to us from where we see customers moving around that some of the other carriers are not taking the same approach and they are focused more on customer counts than they are necessarily on the profitability of the customers. But I think you would be the better judge of figuring that out. And I say that based on the offers I see that we are dealing with and the noise in the market.

On the $2.5 billion I think first and foremost you will see in our results, but with regard to updating you, I think we will continue to update you on the process like we have done today where we've talked about how the retail stores are generating sales exceeding our expectations, how the single truck roll is going to start rolling out in November, those kinds of things.

And I think you will see us also update you like we did with the Viacom announcement where we basically said that we are going to get best in the industry pricing for our platform. And so that would imply that we are getting to or meeting or exceeding our synergy targets.

With regard to specifically reporting on the $2.5 billion number, I don't expect to be doing that in the rest of this year or early next year because we are still in the midst of really getting it done and were more focused on getting it done than we are on reporting out on what it is.

JEFF KVAAL: Okay. Thank you very much and we will try and sort it out. You aren't making it easy for me in my first quarter but I will do my best.

JOHN STEPHENS: I'm sorry about that, Jeff. I'm sorry about that.

JEFF KVAAL: I'm delighted to be here.

JOHN STEPHENS: We really did put the financial statements together a way to try to make it as easy as possible to see. So we will do our best.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. Two if I could. First, going back to the 2016 guidance where you described improving free cash flow, I was curious if that relates back to the free cash flow guidance in August or does that now refer to the updated free cash flow guidance for 2015?

JOHN STEPHENS: That applied to the free cash flow guidance of $13 billion or better.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Okay. And then secondly, can you just talk about in wireless how you are thinking about device installments versus the possibility of using leases as an alternative financing mechanism for customers and how you see the environment evolving competitively for your mobile smartphone customers? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Good question. First and foremost, with regard to installment plan versus a lease, we certainly have the financial capability wherewithal to manage either one, to do either one and we are open to it. But quite frankly, right now our customers seem quite pleased with the installment program.

And simply put they seem to like it because at the end of their term they own the phone. The phones have continued use and functionality for them and they continue to use that. To some extent we are seeing a side of that from this continued use of bring your own device activities at our Company where people are bringing in devices that they already own and hooking them up to our network.

But from a Company perspective it is more of a decision and Ralph de la Vega and Glenn Lurie and the team follow it really closely. It is more about what the customers want and if we see that the customers are going to want that program we will certainly consider -- we certainly have the capability to do it.

But right now we believe that the customer satisfaction comes from that ability to own the phone at the end of that agreed to term and they feel real comfortable about that. And quite frankly the difference in price I don't think is measurable from the lease to the -- depending upon what situation you have. But when you get down to the real cost of it, it seems like it has worked out well for us by doing the installment plan.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: James Ratcliffe, Buckingham Research.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the question. Two if I could. First on wireless and just following up, broadly do you see value in actually selling the phone to the customer? In other words, does it matter whether somebody gets their new iPhone from you or gets it from -- orders it from Apple and it sits on their books?

And secondly, on broadband, a couple quarters now where you're overall losing customers. Can you give us a little insight on what the trends are in DSL and particularly where those losses are coming? Are those people in areas where you don't offer U-verse or is it an additional migration over to U-verse in areas where you do offer it? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: On the value side at customers it is more about being able to provide in the stores a full scope customer experience and take care of all their needs. That is what we are concerned about. From a perspective of the -- if they buy the phone somewhere else and bring it to us we are thrilled with serving them in that way. We don't have the cost of handling the phone or we don't, quite frankly, have the cost of financing the phone either on our installed plan or through a subsidized program. So we are open to it.

Right now under the equipment installment program that Apple has, they sent us a high number of phones through that program and that is fine, we love to serve our customers that way. And if that is how they choose to buy the phone through Apple and Apple finances them, that is something we can definitely work with. It is really more about what does the customer want and how do we make sure we provide choices and services to make it easy for our customers?

With regard to our broadband trends and specifically in DSL, the first comment I would make to you is over the last few years the real trend has been a migration from DSL to IP broadband. And that has been something that we have encouraged ourselves and we are beginning to complete that process or are near completion where the DSL customers we have left is a much lower percentage that have IP broadband capabilities from us. So, we are through that migration process.

And then secondly, they don't have television in these areas or I should say we didn't have a video offering. These were generally out of the U-verse footprint, but now we do. And now we will be able to provide them a video offering through DIRECTV and we are very pleased with that.

So we are hopeful that now this nationwide video service will help us in improving our overall broadband positioning, but particularly our U-verse broadband footprint where we have the higher speeds, where customers generally buy video and broadband together we now can sell that together. So that is how we are thinking about it, that is how we look to it.

I would tell you I think on the consumer side we are down into the 2 million range on total DSL customers. I think the exact number would be on the stat profile. But I would suggest to you it has changed dramatically over the course of four or five years where it used to be 90% plus of our broadband base and now it is a much lower percentage. So we have gone through that migration, not completely but almost completely.

JAMES RATCLIFFE: Great, thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: With that I want to thank all of you for being on the call today and just give you a few closing comments before we go. The third quarter clearly delivered on our transformation strategy. We saw double-digit growth in our key financial metrics including another outstanding free cash flow quarter. The integration of DIRECTV is also on track. We expect to meet or beat our $2.5 billion cost synergy target and we are just beginning to unleash potential promotional activities to drive bundled sales.

You can see our increased confidence in the guidance update where we raised our adjusted EPS and free cash flow expectations for the year. We believe this is just the beginning. We are positioned as a unique competitor and the first scaled communications and video provider to offer fully integrated nationwide products and we fully expect to increase our momentum as we go forward.

Thanks again for being on the call. On your way home tonight please don't text and drive. Remember, it can wait. And as always, thank you for your interest and AT&T and have a good evening.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T executive teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151024ebam000mc
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,331 words
   PD
23 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AT&T second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I'd now like to turn the conference over to our host, Senior Vice president, Investor Relations for AT&T, Mr. Mike Viola.

Please go ahead, sir.

MIKE VIOLA, SVP, IR, AT&T INC.: Okay, thank you Lori. Good afternoon everybody.

Welcome to our second-quarter conference call. Thank you for joining us today.

As Lori said, I'm Mike Viola, head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's

Chief Financial Officer. John will provide an update with perspective on the quarter and then we'll follow that with a Q&A session.

Let me remind you that our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website and that's ATT.com/investor.relations.

I need to call your attention on page 2 to our Safe Harbor statement before we begin. The Safe Harbor statement says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking and as such they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Results may

differ materially and additional information is available on the investor relations page of AT&T Pulse website.

Before I turn it over to John let me cover slide 3, cover our consolidated financial summary. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.69. That's up more than 11% over last year's second quarter.

This includes adjustments for a non-cash charge related to Leap's network decommissioning and other merger-related costs which include DIRECTV and Mexico. This strong year-over-year growth comes even with earnings pressure from our Mexican wireless operations as well as the impact from our divested Connecticut Wireline business and our equity investment in America Movil.

Consolidated revenues grew to $33 billion. It's up more than 2% when you adjust for the sale of our Connecticut Wireline property. This growth was driven by continued solid performance in wireless as we repositioned our smartphone base.

We had impressive gains in strategic business services and strong Wireline consumer revenue growth. Cash flows also grew significantly in the quarter. Cash from ops for the quarter totaled more than $9 billion, up more than 13% over last year's second quarter.

And free cash flow was $4.5 billion and more than $7 billion on a year-to-date basis. And that brought our free cash flow dividend payout to 67% on a year-to-date basis.

So with that overview I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer John Stephens and he'll discuss our operational highlights. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Mike, and hello everyone. Thanks for joining us today and as always thanks for your interest in AT&T.

As you can see in our second-quarter results our moves to transform the Company are working and working well. We grew revenues, expanded margins and achieved double-digit adjusted EPS growth. Cash flows were strong allowing us to invest in our business, return substantial value to shareholders and strengthen our cash position.

Our moves to reposition our smartphone customer base are working, achieving the expected results. Almost 80% of the smartphone based is already on Mobile Share Value plans and 68% of our smartphone sales and upgrades were on AT&T Next.

When you add in the customers who brought their own device nearly three-quarters of smartphone sales were without subsidies. This helped drive strong post-paid phone-only with Next ARPU growth and best-ever service margins.

In Wireline our transition to IP services continues at a strong clip. U-verse services are more than 70% of consumer revenues and helped drive near 4% adjusted revenue growth. Strategic services are now a third of our Wireline business revenues and continue to grow at a very strong pace.

So all in all a very strong quarter as we begin the diversification of our Company. Our growth in cost initiatives such as Project VIP and Project Agile are working. We're executing at a high level and we have a solid foundation for growth as we move forward.

Now let's take a closer look at our operational highlights starting with Wireless on slide 5. Our Wireless strategy is working. Our efforts to reposition the smartphone base to the no-subsidy model had taken hold.

We continue to see solid evidence that our efforts are paying off. First, the most significant shift of our smartphone customers to Mobile Share Value plans is behind us. This has helped stabilize service revenues which were essentially flat for the quarter.

There was heavy promotional activity in last year's second quarter which pressured service revenues. So our disciplined sales approach this year helped in our year-over-year comparison.

Second, as service revenues stabilized and the number of customers using AT&T Next increases we have seen our post-paid phone ARPU with Next increase steadily. It was up more than 6% year over year. And our post-paid phone-only revenues increased sequentially, reaching its highest level in three quarters.

We are about halfway through the expected Next sales cycle as customers upgrade their smartphones. As they do we expect continued ARPU with Next growth as more customers upgrade.

Our focus on costs, Cricket's operational efficiencies and other cost savings programs such as Project Agile helped drive strong margin expansion in the quarter. Our adjusted wireless EBITDA service margin was 48.5%, our best performance ever and an almost 600 basis point improvement over last year's second quarter.

The story of the last six quarters has been repositioning our smartphone base. This has moved subscribers away from the heavy handset subsidies in exchange for lower monthly pricing. For the last several quarters customers on pre-Next pricing have been ahead of us but we are starting to see the benefits of this strategy.

Let's talk more about that on slide 6. We have made remarkable progress in transitioning our customers to Mobile Share Value plans. In a little more than a year nearly two-thirds of our smartphone base has moved to the no-subsidy discount pricing of Mobile Share Value.

While customers continue to choose these plans the growth rate is slowing as the penetration has been achieved. On the other hand, the revenue growth opportunity with AT&T Next has much farther to go. About 68% of our smartphone sales in the quarter were on AT&T Next but our Next customer base is only about 37%.

That gives us substantial opportunity to grow revenues as these customers upgrade their smartphones. We expect penetration rates for both Mobile Share Value and AT&T Next to continue to grow.

AT&T Next and bring your own device are about 90% of post-paid smartphone sales in our company-owned stores and have programs, and we have programs in place to generate similar or better rates in our other channels. And the value of Mobile Share Value plans continues to draw new customers. Only about 12% of our smartphone base is still on unlimited data plans and that has been steadily dropping as customers choose to move to our new Mobile Share Value plans.

We also continue to see growth in the percentage of our post-paid base on Mobile Share Value Family plans or business plans. That total has reached 96% in this past quarter.

These plans tend to be more sticky with lower churn. We also turned in another strong net add quarter as post-paid, prepaid and connected devices drove our highest net adds in more than three years. Those details are on slide 7.

Total net adds came in at 2.1 million subscribers, including 410,000 post-paid subscribers and 1.4 million connected devices. Cricket is really kicking into gear. Prepaid voice had a strong turnaround year from a year ago.

We gained more than 330,000 prepaid voice customers after losing about that many in the year-ago quarter. Our process has been benefited by our ability to transition the Cricket customers to our new high quality 4G LTE network. Our strong sales efforts and the near completion of the Cricket integration helped drive that turnaround.

97% of Cricket customers are now on our GSM platform as we continue the integration and as we shut down the CDMA networks.

These are premium prepaid customers. Almost all are choosing smartphones when they go on to our GSM platform and about two-thirds of the gross adds are choosing our highest value plans, those are plans that have higher ARPU.

In fact those ARPU levels are similar and sometimes better than other carriers' postpaid ARPU. And we're doing this integration faster and with less churn than we originally anticipated, even with our network conversion. We had our lowest ever prepaid churn thanks to continued progress with Cricket even as we decommissioned the networks.

We also had our second largest connected device net add quarter ever. Our leadership in connected cars drove that growth.

Our relationship with eight car manufacturers, producing more than half of the new connected cars in the United States, is driving this as more and more manufacturers make connectivity a key part of their new-car strategies.

The Company had 7.2 million branded smartphone gross adds and upgrades in the second quarter. We increased our high quality branded smartphone base by about 1.2 million in the quarter. This includes branded upgrades and migrations which we don't include in our net add number.

The smartphone momentum plus strength in prepaid led to a positive branded voice net adds in the quarter. Churn continues to be solid. Postpaid churn was down slightly from the first quarter of this year and for the year we are still running below last year's best ever annual postpaid churn record of 1.04%.

Total churn was also impressive. It dropped 16 basis points to 1.31% from a 1.47% in the year-ago quarter, driven in large part by the significant improvements in prepaid. And branded churn was also down year-over-year as we added more than 740,000 branded devices.

Now let's look at our Wireline operation. That information is on slide 8.

The repositioning of our Wireline base also is working. The challenge here is to maintain margins while transitioning customers to IP services from higher-margin legacy services. That's not a simple task.

But the team's extraordinary efforts to control costs and focus on profitability has helped stabilize or even expand margins as we made this transition. That was true this quarter, even with about $40 million, or 30 basis points of additional pressure from spring storms that hit our network and our footprint.

We have taken several measures to make this possible. You know of our efforts to exit low-margin wholesale businesses causes revenue pressure but it does improve the future of our business. Our customer service focus has helped reduce cycle times in provisioning services for customers and added network on-demand capabilities with our next-generation network investments.

These efforts were recently recognized by IDC which named AT&T a leader in seeking new innovations to improve customer service. Our Project Agile is more of a mindset than just a cost efficiency program. We're not only finding ways to take cost out of our business but also working to make things simpler to start with for both our customers and us.

Our transformation to IP technologies continued to drive strong performance in both strategic business services and Wireline consumer in the quarter. Adjusted strategic service revenues grew by nearly 14% and when you adjust for the foreign exchange pressure growth was even stronger, coming in at more than 16%.

At the same time we see the impact of IP with our data revenues. Total data revenues are nearly 60% of Wireline business revenues and more than half of those revenues are from strategic services as we transition customers from legacy data services. This has helped drive total data year-over-year revenue growth for the third consecutive quarter.

Adjusted Wireline business revenues were down 3.9%; however, if you adjust for the impact of our discontinued wholesale businesses and FX the decline would have been 1.7%. There was revenue pressure across our Wireline business operation but was most pronounced in wholesale where we have been focusing on profitable sales even if it meant a reduction in revenue.

Small business revenue was down slightly over the first quarter of the year but we continue to see fiber sales accelerate.

And we are very excited to hear that AT&T has been named the highest-ranked brand in overall business Wireline customer satisfaction performance in the J.D. Power small to medium business segment for 2015. That's quite a tribute to the business team's efforts in this space.

On the consumer side U-verse services are more than 70% of consumer revenues and adjusted revenues grew about 19% year-over-year. That helped drive our strongest consumer revenue growth in five quarters, growing by 3.7% when adjusting for the sale of Connecticut operations.

You also see our focus on profitability and repositioning our customer base with U-verse. Video net adds dropped with fewer promotions and our targeting of high-value subscribers.

We did add about 240,000 IP broadband customers in the quarter as we continue to reposition our DSL base to IP. That work is nearing completion with less than 1 million eligible DSL subscribers left to transition.

Now let's look at consolidated margins which are on slide 9. The strength in wireless and stable Wireline margins had a positive impact on our consolidated margins.

In the second quarter our adjusted EBITDA grew to $11.1 billion and the adjusted consolidated margin was 33.6% compared to 31.5% last year. That's a more than 200 basis point improvement.

Adjusted operating income also is showing continued improvement. It was $6.5 billion, up 12.4% year-over-year. And adjusted operating income margin grew to 19.6%, up more than 190 basis points from the year-earlier second quarter.

This was largely due to cost focus initiatives which included Project Agile, our strength in wireless, growth in consumer revenues and gains in strategic business services. The Company also benefited from lower trailing expenses from capital spending as Project VIP was completed. And our move to next-generation networks is starting to make a real difference as well.

Now let's move to cash flow where we had an outstanding quarter. The summary is on slide 10.

Our ability to generate cash continues to be strong. Cash from operations totaled $9.2 billion. That's nearly four times our dividend commitment and our best cash generation in seven quarters and we generated $15.9 billion in cash year to date.

Capital expenditures totaled $4.7 billion and $8.7 billion year to date. We still expect standalone capital spending in the $18 billion range this year but we are now including our expansion efforts in Mexico in that amount.

Free cash flow was $4.5 billion and $7.2 billion year to date. We are well on our way to hitting our standalone free cash flow guidance we gave you earlier this year. We now expect standalone free cash flow excluding any impact from DIRECTV in the $12 billion range or better and this includes the operational and capital impacts from our Mexican acquisitions.

In terms of uses of cash, dividends totaled $2.4 billion which gives us a free cash flow to dividend payout ratio of 55% for the quarter and about 67% year to date. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.15, similar to the first quarter. We did issue debt in the second quarter to help finance our acquisition activities.

Our long-range goal is to get these levels back to the 1.8 range and expect our cash focus to be on paying down debt in the near-term. The strong financial performance in the first half of the year sets us up well for the transformation and diversification of our business.

Now let me close with a quick summary of the quarter on slide 11 before we get to your questions. Our transformation plan is working. When you build a great network, develop next-generation products and focus on the customer good things happen.

This focus drove strong results in the quarter that saw growing revenues, expanding margins and double-digit adjusted EPS growth. But just as important was our ability to generate cash from our business which we did. All this is in line or better than guidance that we gave you earlier this year.

These results add to our confidence that we're on track to hit our standalone guidance metrics. Wireless financials were solid as we near completion of our shift to Mobile Share Value plans. Next take rates continue to increase, helping drive increasing postpaid phone with Next ARPU.

Our prepaid brands are doing great and our expense management helped drive our best-ever service margins. Our move into Mexico positions us as the only Company who owns and operates a North American mobile service area that will serve more than 400 million people with 4G LTE service. And we expect to reach 350 million people by year-end.

Owning these network assets not only provides a high level of service quality for our customers but also gives us owners' economics advantages. We're also very pleased that in order to approve our DIRECTV transaction with certain conditions is circulating at the FCC. We expect final approval at any time.

We won't be able to address any of your questions about the deal today during this call but I can tell you this. First, as far as any conditions that Chairman Wheeler alluded to earlier this week we feel very confident that we can make an adequate return on any investment we make as part of this deal. Our threshold for investment and determining what's best for our shareholders has not changed.

Second, we still fully expect to achieve $2.5 billion worth of cost synergies from this transaction. That also has not changed. We plan to webcast an Analyst Day from Dallas very soon after the deal closes to discuss our strategy in much more detail.

We are more confident than ever about the opportunity this transaction brings. We are building a unique communications and entertainment Company that we believe will not only transform us but transform our industry as well. And we are very anxious to talk with you about it.

With that, Lori, let's go ahead and take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, thanks. Good afternoon guys.

The two things I think that stood out the most in the report were the service revenue trends and the Wireless margins. So first on the service revenue, given the trends you're seeing and the slowing shift to Mobile Share Value, do you feel confident that we can get to growth in that line item in the second half of the year given the competitive environment?

And then on the margins, a big improvement there, 600 basis points on a year-over-year basis. There were some add-backs but is that the kind of improvement we should see throughout the rest of the year? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, John, good question thanks. First let me say that we're pleased with the team's efforts on the cost containment and that really helped push the margins up. They did a great job and they continue with that focus.

On the service revenues we did get a little bit of benefit this year or this quarter from the promotional activity that took place last year. So the disciplined sales approach that the team took was really important to driving that good performance in service revenues. While we're not giving specific guidance on either on service margins or on the specific amount of Wireless margins, we're going to stay with our guidance that we did have out there that we continue to expect to grow overall revenues in our business and then we're going to continue to expect to grow margins both on the Wireless and on the consolidated side.

So I'll stick with that. But yes we are very encouraged by the discipline that the team has shown is impressive and we see every reason to continue that focus and discipline.

JOHN HODULIK: All right, thanks John.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey guys, thanks. I guess if we could talk about Mexico, can you expand for us on the plan there? You've talked about $3 billion investment.

How does that split out across CapEx, OpEx, what's the timing and when can we see those networks really integrated and ready to start ramping growth? Thanks, John.

JOHN STEPHENS: So thanks, Phil. The $3 billion capital investment is capital dollars. It's expected over about a four-year period.

I won't suggest to you and it will include updating 100 million POPs to LTE. But as I've said before, that won't be linear, each additional POP won't have the same capital investment associated with it because we will focus our efforts on those in best position to be upgraded and those best positioned to serve customers. That's how we'll get the 40 million we're targeting by the end of this year.

So if you will capital will not be spread evenly or ratably over the cycle time. With that being said I think you can view us as getting to that $40 million next year and at the end of 2018 we talked about will get to the full $100 million.

That's the spread plan that we have, Phil, but the $3 billion is capital dollars. With regard to this year what we really want to make sure is clear is as we spelled out in the separate International segment, the International business right now is requiring some investment.

We're of aware of that, we expected it and we're going to make those investments. And with that investment and the investment in capital this year we still believe two things will happen. We'll be able to come through in a CapEx in the $18 billion range for the total Company including the Mexico CapEx and we'll generate free cash flow in the $12 billion range or better including both the capital and operational expense requirements of the Mexico business.

PHIL CUSICK: If I can just follow-up, the $18 billion in CapEx this year implies a nice downtick in the US spending. What's driving that? Are you finding that you just don't need to spend it or are you sort of pushing that out to next year?

JOHN STEPHENS: Well I think a couple of things. The simplest thing is to say the network team did a great job in getting the work done and we got nearly 310 million POPs with LTE right now and we're putting on a spectrum to use as opposed to building towers. And so that aspect of it is just a utilization of spectrum we own and capabilities we have that don't require as much CapEx.

Secondly, the 57 million IP broadband and what is now approximately 900,000 business customer locations passed with fiber.

Once again the network has done a great job in getting the Project VIP initiatives completed and when they're done the additional spend isn't necessary because the project's been completed. And not for lack of anything but for success.

That's what's driving our changes. We continue to focus on working capital and construction work in progress and driving down cycle times and a whole host of other efforts the team is doing really good work on and that's also helping out. But it's really positive things that are driving this capability.

We're going to continue to invest in capacity. We're going to continue to invest in successful sales. We feel very good about our ability to continue to respond to customers in a positive way.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hey guys, thanks. John had just a quick comment on competitive positioning.

Thinking about the handset losses in the quarter, clearly it's ceding a little bit of share here at the benefit of probably margins and probably some of the ARPU trends. But just maybe a comment on those sub losses you're seeing in the handset side, the quality of those subs. And then secondly, John, your thoughts on cash taxes as we look into 2016.

JOHN STEPHENS: A couple of things Mike. Thanks for the question. First of all let me say this right.

On a branded net add-backs we weren't negative on voice, we were positive. We added voice customers.

Now on the postpaid category we did lose some feature phones which have our lowest ARPUs. But on the prepaid side with both

our Cricket and our GoPhone brands we added some premium customers. I think I mentioned that two-thirds of the Cricket customers are buying out of the higher plans.

Those are the $50 and $60 a month plans, two-thirds or more of our customers are buying those plans. And those ARPUs are higher than the feature phone ARPUs we're losing and quite frankly higher than a lot of some people in the market's postpaid ARPU. So we're getting great trade-off.

The beauty of that, though, and the thing that's helping margins is there's very low acquisition subsidy cost with regard to those customers. We did sell over 7 million smartphones in the quarter.

A lot of those were in our prepaid space but we did sell a lot. The beauty of it is is that the customers are satisfying the financial requirements of those phones such that it's allowing us to keep our margins up.

MIKE MCCORMACK: And John, were you seeing a meaningful amount of those sort of postpaid feature phones moving over to the Cricket brand or the prepaid brands?

JOHN STEPHENS: No, those would be migrations so we would account those as migration so you wouldn't have those in our net add numbers. The 330,000 voice net adds in prepaid were all customers we acquired that had not had service with anybody before or we took from other providers.

So we feel really good about our competitive positioning. And we're really excited about our prepaid brands and very excited about what's happening with Cricket and the quality of the customers we're getting and quite frankly the great job the team has done in accelerating the integration, getting us over on our GSM, on our LTE networks, getting smartphones in these customers' hands and really providing quality service.

Churn is the reduction in churn is really impressive. As you can see from our slides overall churn, total churn was down 16 basis points. That's mainly driven by the improvements in our prepaid.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay. And the cash taxes in 2016 as we look at it?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think the key issue in cash taxes for 2016 would generally be expected to go up because of the tax rules and currently in place right now no legislation for bonus depreciation. With that being said there has been a bill that came out of the Senate Finance Committee I think just last week, there has been a lot of activity in the House to extend the various tax extenders, research bill and credit and other things and include bonus depreciation, some say for a two-year cycle, others say to a three- to five-year cycle depending upon which piece of legislation we're talking about.

If those happen we would see a significant benefit from a company who invests in the United States and invests in jobs through CapEx in the United States. So that's yet to be seen as what will happen.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, great, John. Thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hey guys, thanks for the taking the questions. I guess first, John, if I could ask the Wireless margin question another way which is looking at the sequential change in the cost is about almost $750 million of sequential cost went away after you subtract out the merger and integration expenses. So could you parse down what happened quarter over quarter in the Wireless business and can we expect this as a starting point to be where we should look at Wireless margins for the rest of the year and into 2016?

And then I guess as a second question it's no secret we're all trying to figure out the implications of the potential conditions here. But I think as a level set in that conversation could you go through what you're able to talk about in terms of the scope of the current GigaPower initiative, the economics around that initiative, cost to home passed and so we could all be on the same page in that conversation. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So let me start with the Wireless margins. A couple of things we need to be focused on. One is we made significant progress with regard to Cricket and the integration of it.

So we've been able to free up a lot of spectrum over the year to take in capacity in a very efficient and low cost way, so to be able to serve customers more effectively get more LTE add. Secondly we have the Cricket, as you know the company we bought was operating in a we'll say in a challenged environment with challenged results from a margin and an operating income perspective.

The team has put in place integration plans and activated those and affectuated those that are now improving and growing EBITDA and operating contribution in that piece of it. So if you go back and look at the prior public company we bought the Leap company you can get a sense if you can turn those numbers positive you can have a real improvement on your quarter. That's one.

Two, we have seen efforts in our customer tier and specifically on our mobility customer care centers where we've done a whole variety of things. Whether it's the sales guys keeping consistent sales offers out there, whether it's the retail stores having the sales agents spend more time to make sure customers explain it, whether it's moving towards getting it right the first time and getting the first call resolution or it's our extensive investments over the last few years in digital first and allowing customers to for example order, upgrade, buy different packages, pay their bills, those types of things on their smartphones.

All that is driven, call volume is down significantly in our care centers to the tune of we'll probably have a drop for this year of about 10 million phone calls out of our mobility care centers alone. So that's another activity that going.

Our LTE network is a lower cost network and we're continuing to see people use more data and buying up into bigger plans. That's helping.

Additionally and we are seeing our customers seem to want to hold their phones longer under the Next plan, at least longer than we had initially expected. And with that we are seeing cost savings there.

So those are all part of what we saw in the second quarter. And we're optimistic that we'll be able to continue much of that momentum maybe at different levels but we're owing to be able to continue that momentum going forward. So we're very optimistic about that.

With regard to the transaction I won't make any comments with regard to GigaPower. We have announced an effort to go into 25 major markets to place fiber to the prem in those. We had done it, started in some initial markets in Dallas and Austin and some others.

Our initial results have been very encouraging. Our sales have exceeded our expectations.

We're seeing great if you will net promoter scores from our customers who take those services and we're encouraged by that.

And I think based on prudence I'll leave the comments with regard to it at that. But we are encouraged by what we've seen out of GigaPower and the capabilities it brings not only to our customers but to us as a service provider.

DAVID BARDEN: Great, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays Capital.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. John, I was wondering if we could switch gears back to sort of assessing the competitive environment, in particular the wireless arena.

There's been a lot of discussions around levels of promotional activity in the first part of the year whether or not we're at elevated levels or depressed levels versus last year. As you look out towards the remainder of the year you had mentioned that you're taking a disciplined approach. I was wondering if you could give us a bit more color in terms of your strategy going forward here in terms of either from a promotional standpoint or if there is some new products coming down the line with this merger the type of strategies that you're taking for customer acquisition?

JOHN STEPHENS: So let me just say it this way. We are certainly evaluating and watching our competitors' moves in the marketplace. What I would tell you is that we're not responding to each and every one from a discounting program.

We've shown that kind of discipline. We have responded with an effort to make customer care easier, customer service easier, customer data situations like rollover data where we can meet some of the customers' pain points and satisfy them. And we've done a great job in providing value customer solution with our prepaid brands.

Those are the kinds of things we're going to do and continue to do. I think you've seen it in our numbers that this disciplined approach has paid off and as I mentioned we did have positive voice net adds so we feel good about what it has done to the positioning. Quite frankly the biggest strategy play we've had in that wireless space was probably the acquisition of Cricket and giving us that capability, that platform and that distribution to really serve those value customers in a different way.

But if you will, yes, it's a competitive market. It continues to be a noisy and competitive market. But it's been that way for some time and I wouldn't expect it necessarily to change.

But I do like our ability to compete with the tools that we have that are different than our competitors. Having that premium prepaid, having Mobile Share Value, having Next, having connected cars and connected devices, having all those tools in this great network I believe we're in the best position to compete going forward and are looking forward to that opportunity.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you and then if I may one brief follow-up, in thinking about sort of of churn levels I mean we've seen a tick down from the prior quarter and in thinking about the scope of the competitive landscape how do you think that sort of churn should progress through the course of the year?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, we won't give any predictions, Amir. Specifically on that we're focused on churn as a way of giving good service, lowers churn, lowers churn, gives good profitability. So we certainly value it and we'll continue to focus on it.

I'll just leave it to say that through six months our churn on a postpaid basis is lower than last year's full year and last year's full year was our best year ever. And secondly as I mentioned if you peel through our numbers you can see our total churn dropped 16 basis points which means our prepaid churn which I did mention had its best quarter ever for us and our prepaid churn is really improving. So we're really focused on it and we believe that gives us that opportunity to really generate value while still being very competitive in the marketplace.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for the additional color.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS & CO.: Thanks for taking the question. John, during your statements you mentioned that you are increasingly focused on driving profitability in the Wireline side and you noted that there was a small loss of video customers against that strategy.

It implies you saw something in the market that you just didn't want to respond to. So if you could maybe give us a little color in terms of what you saw , what you didn't like and where you were really focused strategically that would be helpful.

And just along those lines since the broadband numbers were just a little under run rate on U-verse, I think you had talked about where you were from a penetration standpoint in an upgrade cycle, if you could revisit that that would be helpful.

JOHN STEPHENS: So I'll take a couple of things. One with regard to we do have a tremendous focus on driving cost out of our Wireline business. And as all of you know when legacy services drop off they usually have very high margins that go with them.

So as we're growing our strategic services and our U-verse services we're really focused on controlling costs so we can replace that to maintain our profitability. With that being said on the U-verse video side the first point to make is second quarter is always seasonally a challenge. You got a lot of relocations, you've got a lot of students returning from college.

And with our currently limited footprint with regard to video capabilities it's always a challenge for us. The issue then is do you go out and do a lot of promotional activities to stimulate growth? We chose to be very disciplined and very limited in those promotional activities.

As you can see, it really had a unique impact in the sense that our revenues grew 3.7% or almost 4%. So it was from this disciplined approach of not getting out of hand with regard to promotional pricing. That's how we think about it.

When we are capable of bundling all our services together we're very optimistic about our ability to compete. With regard to our IP broadband it really has more to do at this time not only with the seasonality but also with the fact that we were

converting our DSL at a very high rate to our IP broadband or our high-speed broadband. That process has achieved 13 million of these high-speed broadband and we only have about 1 million left.

So coming from a number of years ago where we had 14 million to convert we're down to 1 million and so you'll see it's just a different pool to draw from. Once again as we had a somewhat challenged video footprint at the current time and the opportunities before us are clear with that high quality broadband service that we have. So I'll leave it at that.

BRETT FELDMAN: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. John it sounds like the FCC is getting ready to put out the final rules for the broadcast incentive auction. You have put out a commitment around $9 billion under certain conditions.

Can you just review your perspective on the 600 auction? And then any color you can give us on securitization during the quarter? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, so with regard to securitizations, Simon, we did do some of this quarter. They were about $1 billion this quarter and we did about $800 million in the year-ago quarter.

So a slight increase in the securitizations, I'm assuming we're talking about the net securitizations. Continue to see strong demand, continue to see a real interest in that investment by a number of banks at very attractive rates.

And we're getting to the point now that we've lapped a full year and are building a history with regard to this program which is very good for the Company. This has to give us flexibility going forward. So very pleased with it, expect we'll continue to do it.

But the differential year over year was not dramatic as it may have been in some prior quarters. That's one.

Two, as far as overall spectrum goes we're always interested in looking at spectrum and the opportunities to improve our spectrum position. And we plan for that other regular basis.

With regard to the dissipation in the broadcast auction, we did offer to participate when we first announced our intention to acquire DTV. We'll wait and see what the final terms and conditions with regard to any approval of that merger are. But in any event I would suggest to you that we'll be interested and prudent in investigating the opportunities to see what's available and participate in an appropriate way as we move forward.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi guys, thanks for taking the question. John, so you're on track to bring the CapEx down to the $18 billion range but this does follow some heavy investment the past few years. As you look out over the technology road map like 5G coming down the pipeline do you anticipate that we'll see another period of elevated investment?

JOHN STEPHENS: Good question Joe. I would tell you this.

From kind of a longer-term perspective what we're seeing is our move to get this fiber deep into the network and getting LTE out deep into the Wireless network and the solutions that we're finding in a software-defined network opportunity we seen a real opportunity to actually strive to bring investments if you will lower or more efficient from historical levels. Right now I'll tell you that this year's investment is going to be in that $18 billion range which is about 15%. Certainly we're not going to give any guidance with regard to next year or the year after and we'll give an update on this year's guidance if and when at our endless conference if we get that opportunity.

With that being said I think there's a real opportunity with some of the activities that are going on in software-defined networks on a longer-term basis to actually bring that capital intensity to a more modest level.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI: Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Frank Louthan, Raymond James.

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES: Great, thank you. Can you give us an update on how many homes you've passed with GigaPower and sort of what the cost is running on that right now? And then secondly on the wholesale business what exactly is the trend there? Are you losing share or is it just lower pricing or is it lower volumes or where is that actually going?

JOHN STEPHENS: So on the wholesale business the first thing is we exited our global hubbing the business. We've really turned that down, not pursuing it anymore.

That's having a significant impact on the wholesale business. That's the first point.

The second point what we're saying is the continued not only pressure on the legacy analog services but a movement towards more efficient IP strategic services. So when the customers move up sometimes they have both services in place but even after they shut off the legacy services the strategic services oftentimes have more efficiency. And so until the volumes grow to absorb that there's a disconnect between those revenue sources.

But with that being said we still feel very good about our win percentages and our ability to hold onto that business and our ability to grow going forward. The biggest first issue with regard to wholesale, though, is the fact that we've decided to get out of some business and on the second piece is some of this growing as they've transitioned to strategic services, to Ethernet and other things. But we will continue to be positive and we continue to be able to compete well in that wholesale space.

With regard to GigaPower I would suggest we're not giving out cost per unit price at this time. And let me give you some insights into why that would be challenging at this point.

There is a difference between whether you do it on aerial basis or a buried cable basis, there is a difference between whether you do it to multi-dwelling units or whether you do it to a single home and single residence. So all of those factors at this stage could mislead folks with regard to any kind of factual numbers. So we've chosen not to do that.

But we are just getting started with the fiber to the prem activity. We're very pleased with it. I can suggest to you that we're probably still in the early stages of it but the take rates and the satisfaction rates continue to outperform our expectations with our customers.

FRANK LOUTHAN: Okay, great. Thank you.

MIKE VIOLA: Lori, we'll take one more question.

OPERATOR: Very good. James Ratcliffe, Buckingham Research.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Hi, thanks for taking the question. Two on the Wireless side if I could.

First of all can you give a little more color about what's driving the improvement you're seeing in prepaid churn? Is it just improving credit quality or better retention or is something else going on there?

And second, given the continued growth in connected cars, any insight you can provide ground the economics around those, what ARPU are running and if there are any subsidies or revenue shares involved? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So on the prepaid business it's a couple of things. One great plans, great attention to our customers, but quite frankly they're running on a great network. So they're getting great service with cost-efficient plans and we're able to do it because they're paying for their own phones.

So it's really just a lot of hard work by our network team in getting these customers converted from the network that they were on, the CDMA network they're on on to our LTE network so they're having a great experience. That's one.

Two, we're giving a good pricing. We can do that because they're paying for their own phones essentially.

So and then our sales team and our operations team is working very hard to integrate the quality of our networks, our backbone and our cost structure. All of those things are what's driving it.

But the churn is really I'm sure has a lot to do with this great network that they're riding on. So I would suggest you that.

On the connected car there's three relationships I think of when I think of that connected car on our revenue side. There is one on the wholesale relationship with the auto manufacturer/dealers and that's the ability to deliver on-time information and real-time information to the cars or take it from the cars for whether it be design, marketing activities, analysis upgrades to mapping and so on and so forth.

That's a wholesale relationship we have with the auto manufacturers. And as we continue to develop applications and they continue to develop applications and information needs out of that process we'll continue, we're hopeful to continue to grow that revenue.

The key to that is much of that activity can be done in off-peak hours. And so the auto manufacturers can gather that time and gather that data at times when it's very cost-efficient for us to do it so we can utilize our networks when they're somewhat underutilized and they can still get really good quality data.

Two, there's that ability to put it into a Mobile Share Value plan. And part of our Mobile Share Value plans is an add-on service. We're just getting started with that.

We're very optimistic about the opportunities there. But quite frankly the cars first are just rolling off and secondly there is some promotional time and promotional activities where that capability is available before we sign them up to a retail package so that process is just getting started.

We feel very good about it and think it fits within the overall connected life strategy that our mobility team is running.

And then lastly there's a prepaid opportunity for someone who doesn't own the car but yet wants to utilize that connectivity in that car.

And we are seeing some utilization of that today and we'll continue to see that develop. We're optimistic and very jazzed up so to speak about the opportunities in the connected car. I would suggest to you that a company that's our scale and size, we look to this to be not only a success in today's net adds and today's relationship with our business customers but a success going forward in revenue generation and margin generation improvement.

Lori, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks a lot. So John, a great job on the financial discipline.

So you think the Wireless expenses is a good run rate here? I know there's a lot of moving parts, do you think maybe you were a little light on the marketing this quarter or that wasn't an impact and can you also just lastly give us some data usage statistics? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure, Tim. Let me say this. On the margins there's always going to be seasonality and we're always going to have the challenges that are in our business.

We're going to have a much smoother seasonality. We may have because of the way we've shifted the business flipped some of the pressure quarters and the higher-end quarters around, we'll have more smoother. But we will have additional activities as we get into the holiday season with more units and more activities with regard to that.

Secondly while we are going to continue to be disciplined with all costs including marketing I would suggest to you we will continue to market and believe we've been effective with our marketing but have not shut it down. With regard to b- Tim, what was your last question?

TIM HORAN: Wireless data usage and where maybe customers are in terms of the utilization of their existing capacity.

JOHN STEPHENS: We continue to see data growth per handset to be significant. And it's been running at kind of the 50% year-over-year increase for a while.

With regard to the data plans we're seeing customers a couple of things. We continue to see customers buy the bigger data plan, some of the 20 gig and bigger plans.

And the unique thing that's helped our service revenues this quarter was we continue to see people do some overages. Even though we gave rollover out to our customers to help them manage their plans they took advantage of it we continued to see some overage usage.

So we view that as an opportunity to get the customers to buy some bigger buckets and move themselves out of that stressed opportunity. But usage continues to be a positive for our revenue opportunities and continues to be something our network guys watch very closely so we keep this high quality service.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you. Thanks Lori. For everyone on the call I want to thank you for being with us today.

In closing let me say this, for the last three years we have laid a plan that deployed next-generation networks, that developed some innovative products and services and that has been focused on repositioning our customer base. And at the same time we've been focused on cost management.

Second-quarter results show that this strategy is working. We now stand ready to continue this process with our strategic investments in spectrum and Leap in Mexico as well as our pending transaction with DIRECTV. We are ready to take advantage of our new opportunities as we transform our business and our industry.

Thanks again for being on the call and as always thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good evening. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude our conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T executive teleconference service and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150724eb7n0089d
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,937 words
   PD
22 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to AT&T first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
And at this time, I will turn the conference call over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T, Mr. Mike Viola. Please go ahead, Sir.

MIKE VIOLA, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Okay, thanks, Tony, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter conference call. Thanks for joining us.

Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. John will provide an update with a perspective on the quarter, and then we'll follow that with Q's & A's. One reminder, our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website, and that's ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before we begin, let me call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. The Safe Harbor statement says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they are subject to risks, uncertainties; results may differ materially, and additional information is available on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website.

So with that as an overview, I'll now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Mike. And hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in AT&T.

We are very excited about the progress we've seen in our business the last three years. We've set some ambitious goals to transform our business -- every part of our business -- to lay a new foundation for the future and for growth. The first quarter was another significant step in that transformation. To put it simply, we are executing very well.

We have completed or are near completion with all of our project VIP network initiatives. We are also ahead of plans with many of the transformational customer and operational initiatives that we now have underway. The results are impressive. You know the story.

Our 4G LTE network now covers 308 million people, with ultrafast speeds. We also deployed new Spectrum, densified the network, and added DAS and Wi-Fi capabilities to improve the quality and reach of our best-in-class network. Our expanded wireline, IP broadband footprint reaches 57 million customer locations, and we now are offering 75 megabit speeds in 90 cities.

We've also deployed fiber to nearly 800,000 additional business locations with our 1 million goal in sight, enabling strategic services growth and Network On Demand possibilities. While transforming these networks, we've also invested heavily to transition our customer base. Many of those transitions are nearing completion as well.

Several years ago, we started to move our postpaid base to smartphones and usage-based pricing. Today, 84% of our postpaid phone base use smartphones, and almost 90% are on usage-based plans. And just one year ago, we accelerated the shift to the no-device subsidy model for smartphones when we launched Mobile Share Value plans.

Customer response to these plans has been tremendous. About 60% of our postpaid smartphone subscribers already are on no-device subsidy plans. The surge of customers coming to value plans provides for some expected tough comparisons when looking at year-over-year financial results, but our record-breaking churn demonstrates that we made the right move in introducing these plans.

We also move to strengthen our position in new growth areas. In prepaid, we acquired Cricket and paired it with our LTE network to provide a premium prepaid experience. We also saw the future of the Internet of Things, and developed platforms, such as the connected car and home automation. We now have more than 20 million connected devices on our network, and the future is very bright for additional growth.

In wireline, the transformation IP broadband is nearing completion. That means most of the costs associated with this transformation are also behind us. Today, nearly 80% of our broadband base is on IP, and about 90% of the customers with access to IP broadband already have it. And more than 30% of our business wireline revenues come from our strategic IP services.

And finally, we have been laser-focused on improving our operations, driving efficiencies across the board. We are seeing good traction with several Project Agile cost savings initiatives, including Digital First, which is our companywide effort to make it easy for customers to do business online. The number of digital transactions with our customers has increased by the tens of millions the last two years, and we expect to see that increase by millions more in this coming year.

We also have been reducing cycle times in provisioning new services. This improves our competitiveness, our revenue opportunities, and the customer experience, while reducing expenses as well. And we took a giant step with our leading software-defined network initiative when we launched Network On Demand capabilities for business customers in 100 cities.

We continue to take steps to make our capital structure more efficient, including monetization of assets, reducing borrowing costs, and implementing working capital improvements. This has contributed to our strong balance sheet, and given us the financial strength we need to continue to invest and diversify our business.

The moves to diversify our business also continue on track in the first quarter. Those details are on slide 4.

We've executed Project VIP in our transformation well, doing the hard work necessary to enable the Company to move forward. This puts us in a great position to achieve the vision we laid out for you last quarter -- a vision of a new AT&T, a diversified integrated wireless and wireline company for both business and consumers, uniquely positioned in a world of high-speed mobile connectivity and video.

We expect the DirecTV transaction will close this quarter. We have done a lot of work identifying opportunities for additional cost synergies between these two great companies. This includes savings from supply chain, installation, customer care, and even sending just one bill. This has increased our confidence that we can significantly exceed the original $1.6 billion expected in cost synergies. In fact, we now believe cost synergies alone will exceed a $2.5 billion run rate by year-three.

In wireless, we closed on IUSACELL, the first of our Mexico wireless acquisitions. And we expect to close the Nextel Mexico deal shortly. Together, these properties will give us a leading Spectrum position in a dynamic wireless market that is just beginning its transformation to the mobile Internet.

We plan to deploy near-nationwide 4G LTE network, something we know how to do very well. It will be covering about 100 million people in a country that borders the United States. The cross-border opportunities that this opens up are exciting from both a consumer and a business standpoint.

We've also significantly improved our Spectrum position here in the United States. Our LEAP acquisition brought with it an average of 10 megahertz of Spectrum in the top 100 markets, covering 137 million people. Some of it was unused Spectrum. We've already put much of that unused Spectrum to work in more than 200 markets. And we've begun shutting down the legacy CDMA networks. We expect that process to be complete by the end of the year, and we will quickly redeploy that Spectrum as well.

We also made a major investment earlier this year when we acquired licenses for near-nationwide contiguous 2 by 10 megahertz block of high-quality AWS-3 Spectrum. Needless to say, we feel good about our Spectrum position. This takes a lot of uncertainty out of the process with our ability to add capacity and maintain quality in a cost-efficient manner.

We know what we have, and we know what we need to do. And we have a clear path to delivering a network that customers want, that customers expect, and that customers will use. With that as background, let's take a look at our consolidated financial summary on slide 5.

Adjusted consolidated revenues grew to more than $32.6 billion, and that's up about $375 million when you adjust for the sale of our Connecticut wireline properties. This growth was driven by continued success in wireless, as we repositioned our business model; strong demand for strategic business services; and adjusted wireline consumer revenue growth. Adjusted wireline revenues were down about 1%, but revenues were essentially flat year-over-year, if you adjust for the impact of foreign exchange and discontinued businesses.

Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.63. That includes adjustments for LEAP integration expenses as well as costs associated with the voluntary employee retirement plan. It also excludes a one-time $0.05 benefit from a tax planning-related matter. And while we don't show this on an adjusted basis, first-quarter 2014 earnings also include the income we received from our previous equity ownership at America Movil, as well as net income from our divested Connecticut wireline operations. Those two provided about $0.03 of EPS in the first quarter of the last year that we don't have this year.

Our business also continues to generate solid cash flows, with free cash flow of $2.8 billion. Cash from operations totaled $6.7 billion, and that includes an additional $500 million investment in our next customer base. And capital expenditures were $4 billion. At the end of the quarter, our cash balance was $4.4 billion. And in terms of uses of cash, dividend payouts totaled $2.4 billion.

At the same time, we maintained a solid balance sheet while continuing to invest in the business. During the quarter, we funded investments in AWS Spectrum and IUSACELL, and we're also well-positioned for our planned investments in DirecTV and Nextel Mexico. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA at the end of the quarter was 2.19. And as we said before, with our transformational investments in DirecTV, Mexico, and Spectrum, we will go above our normal net debt to EBITDA target. But after we close the DirecTV transaction, our focus with free cash flow after dividends will be on paying down debt and getting back to our target range.

Now, let's turn to our operational highlights starting with wireless on slide 6. Our wireless results this quarter only include our domestic operations. Information on our IUSACELL operations is included under the International segment in our financial statements and is separately broken out.

The repositioning of our smartphone base by giving customers the choice of lower-priced service with no-device subsidy plans continues to show positive results. Postpaid churn was 1.02%, the best first-quarter that we have ever had and the best in the industry this quarter. This continues the positive trend we saw last year, and comes in a very noisy and competitive marketplace. And prepaid churn also showed strong continued signs of improvement, thanks to the strength of our Cricket operations.

Total net adds came in strong at 1.2 million. That was led by gains in postpaid and connected devices. We added more than 440,000 postpaid subscribers in what is traditionally a slow net add quarter, thanks to strength in tablets. These tablet gains more than offset a decline of feature phone subscribers. We also grew our high-quality postpaid smartphone base by another 500,000 in the quarter. This includes postpaid upgrades and migrations, which we don't include in our net add number.

And when you look at total branded smartphones, which includes both postpaid and prepaid, we added about 1.2 million smartphones to our base during the quarter. We also added about 1 million connected devices, thanks to a continued strong showing by connected cars. Connected device net adds were impacted by a change in how we report our session-based tablets.

Previously, we included them as part of our prepaid base. Now they are reported as connected device subscribers. This gives us and you a better view of phone growth in prepaids, which now essentially includes only phone activity. You see that this quarter, thanks to strong results from our Cricket offering, we had positive growth in prepaid. Cricket is just the latest example of our ability to integrate new businesses.

The team has done a very good job of transforming this business. Retention is at a schedule, churn is less than expected and certainly much less than historical levels prior to our ownership. And we're doing a great job of moving customers off the legacy CDMA network. More than 90% of Cricket customers already are on the GSM platform. However, we do expect to see some pressure over the next quarters as we complete the transition to GSM and shut down the legacy CDMA networks.

Overall, postpaid gross adds and upgrades continue at a solid pace. We had about 6.2 million smartphone sales in the quarter, slightly higher than last year's total. Our postpaid upgrade rate was 6.6%. Smartphones were 94% of all phone sales and now make up about 84% of our postpaid phone base. We still have about 16% of our phone base to transition to smartphones, but the bulk of the smartphone transformation has been completed.

Transforming our phone base to LTE smartphones and moving those customers to no-subsidy and usage-based pricing has been a big investment for us. But once again, we made these investments, executed our plan, and are now in a strong position to move forward.

Now let's look at the progress we're making with shifting our customers to AT&T Next and Mobile Share. That information and revenue are on slide 7.

AT&T Next sales reached record levels -- nearly two-thirds of smartphone sales. Another 5% brought their own devices to our network. That means 70% of phone sales in the quarter didn't carry a subsidy. Total wireless revenue was up about 2%, driven by 36% growth in equipment revenue. The customers who choose to bring their own devices don't increase equipment expense for us, so the no-device subsidy model works for our customers and us, whether it's with Next or with bring your own device.

As expected, service revenues this quarter were impacted by Mobile Share Value Plans. But because we have now passed the anniversary of the introduction of these plans, we expect the year-over-year comparisons will improve in the coming quarters. At the end of the first quarter, more than 70% of our postpaid base is on Mobile Share Plans, with more than 60% of the postpaid smartphone base on no-device subsidy pricing. This means our first-quarter Next flow share percentage has exceeded the percentage of smartphone subs on no-device subsidy pricing.

Mobile Share customers continue to buy up to larger buckets of data. About half of all accounts are on plans 10 gigabytes or larger. And about 20% are on plans of 15 gigabytes or more. That's more than twice as many as a year ago. This helped drive a 14% increase in data billings.

As expected, the strong Next take rate helped drive the third consecutive quarter of sequential phone ARPU growth when you factor in Next billings. The metric gives you a more accurate idea of what an average customer pays us each month. Phone-only ARPU with Next was more than $66 in the quarter, with the average monthly Next billings about $6.00 and growing. That strong sequential increase comes even when you factor in the impact of our new data rollover plan, which generated about $0.25 of ARPU pressure in the quarter.

As the Next base grows, so does the impact on billings. More than 30% of our smartphone base is now on AT&T Next, but 65% of our sales were on Next. So our ARPU with Next is expected to continue to grow.

Now let's move to our wireline operations on slide 8. Our focus on profitability and transforming to IP technologies can be seen in our wireline results. On the business side, strategic business services are now close to one-third of the business wireline revenues. And we continue to see strong demand for those services.

Adjusted strategic business service revenues improved by more than 15% in the quarter. And when you adjust for FX, growth was more than 17%. Adjusted wireline business revenues were down 3.3%. However, about half of that decline comes from the impact of FX and our discontinued low-margin businesses, such as global hubbing. If you consider those items, the decline would've been 1.7%.

And if you look at our combined business, wireline and wireless operations, revenue actually increased year-over-year. While overall wireline business operations saw pressure, it was most pronounced in wholesale, in part due to our focus on profitable sales and the continued impacts of network grooming. Enterprise revenue was down less than 1% when you adjust for Connecticut and FX.

Small business revenues were also down. However, there are some positive signs with new business starts and growing sales from our fiber build. We also took a significant step recently in our transition to software-defined networks. We introduced Network On Demand for business customers in more than 100 cities. This allows businesses to easily order, add, or change network services on their own in real-time.

In consumer, viewer services now make up about 70% of consumer revenues and help drive adjusted consumer revenue growth of more than 2%. U-verse started the year with solid subscriber gains, increasing penetration and strong revenue growth, including adding more than 400,000 IP broadband subscribers. That helped drive a net gain of almost 70,000 new subscribers to our overall broadband base.

We are nearing the completion of our broadband conversion to IP. About 80% of our broadband base is now on IP. That's 90% of our IP-eligible customers. So we expect the number of migrations to ease throughout the year, as well as the costs associated with those conversions. At the same time, we continue to increase broadband speeds. We expanded our 75 megabits services to nearly 90 cities, and we offer GigaPower in 10 markets, including a just-announced deployment in Chicago.

We also hit a milestone with our Voice over IP services in the quarter. We now have more than 5 million VoIP subscribers. All this helped drive an increase in adjusted U-verse consumer revenues of almost 20%.

Now let's move to margins, starting with wireless margins on slide 9. Wireless service margins were essentially stable year-over-year. There was pressure from customers on no-device subsidy pricing in advance of upgrades and from the full quarter of inclusion of Cricket operations. And our new data rollover plan also had about a 20 basis point impact on margins. This was offset by the impact of AT&T Next and cost-saving initiatives in the quarter.

Wireline margins continue to stabilize, and operating margins were flat year-over-year. There was pressure from non-cash benefit expenses and TV content costs, but this was offset by growth in consumer and strategic business service revenues and solid execution on our cost initiatives. For the quarter, our adjusted consolidated operating margin was 18.5% compared to 19.6% in the year-ago quarter and 18.9% two years ago. But most of the year-over-year difference is due to our strategic investments in Mexico and Cricket.

Cost efficiencies continue to be a priority with us. We discussed the success of our digital first initiative earlier. We also have made headway in cutting cycle times to provision new business services. We are seeing up to a 40% reduction in cycle times on some IP products, with more than a 50% reduction in the fiber-ready buildings. Our software-defined network initiatives will help even more.

Before we open up the call for your questions, let me do a quick recap of the quarter on slide 10. The first quarter was another big step in the transformation and diversification of our Company. Customers are moving to Mobile Share Value Plans and AT&T Next in increasing numbers. This helped drive industry-leading postpaid churn and more than 1.2 million wireless net adds.

The success of the migration to IP technologies can clearly be seen in our wireline revenue numbers. IP services now make up 70% of our consumer revenues. And our migration to IP broadband is near complete. In business, strategic business services, which include our IP services, is close to one-third of the wireline business revenues. Strong demand has revenue growing at more than 15%.

At the same time, the moves we are making to diversify our business through video and international operations are on track. We are confident the DirecTV and Nextel Mexico deals will close this quarter. And we are taking steps to get all plans in place to close these transactions quickly.

Our solid balance sheet and cash flows provide the financial strength to invest and to make these transformative moves. We feel very confident with our standalone guidance for the year. We are on track and on plan. In fact, we are at actually ahead of plan in many of the areas, including free cash flow. That gives us even greater confidence that we can hit our growth targets for the year, while also being prepared for the DirecTV and Nextel Mexico acquisitions.

We are on the starting blocks for a very exciting year for AT&T. We have made the investments and done the hard work necessary to position us to be a very different company. And we are ready for the opportunity ahead of us.

With that, Tony, let's go ahead and take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, thanks for the update on DirecTV. Can you just go into the merger synergy guidance a little bit more? Just what are the main buckets there? And help us think about how it phases with year-one, two, three. And then you sound confident on the closing this quarter. Given all the headlines we have out there, just can you just give us some more sense of what makes you so confident? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Simon. Real quickly, Simon, the base of most of our savings that we previously announced was going to content contracts as we understood them to be standard in the industry. And that was the basis for a large part of our $1.6 billion original target. That, along with some of the normal synergies associated with bringing two public companies together.

The additional ones are the opportunities we now see in going to, for example, one single truck roll to install products. So combining the installation of both our broadband capabilities and our video capabilities into one truck roll, or giving the customers on one single bill, one single customer care operation, the ability to go to our supply chain to get better pricing with regard to our equipment, because specifically, one of us was buying set-top boxes and other equipment at lower numbers than the other one was. And so when you combine those, we are confident that we can get some more supply chain savings.

There is also the standard cost of things like combined advertising, combined customer care, combined activities. But that's what we've built up to this $2.5 billion. They are cost savings. But we believe that they are very much real, very achievable, and we believe that they will grow -- certainly, in that third year is when they get to that 2.5 level, but they are significant during the 2017 third-year timeframe. They will build starting in 2015, but build really in 2016, and really move towards significant amounts in 2017.

With regard to our confidence in the transaction closing, it really comes down to what that -- what the transactional value, and that is bringing customers greater choice, bringing more competition to the marketplace, bringing expanded opportunities for customers to get bundled services, services that they want, and really to improve the broadband capacity that's out there for customers through our additional investments of some of these savings.

So as we continue to go through the process, we continue to feel good about where we are at. And we are optimistic and continue to believe we'll close it this quarter.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, John, thanks. Quick follow-up on Simon's question. Have you had any indication from the DOJ or FCC either way in terms of approval?

And then second, if you can talk about the Mexican business, sort of the same thing. What barriers remain to closing Nextel? And how do you think about integrating those businesses from here and the need to ramp up CapEx to do that? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So, as would be normal in a transaction like the merger of DTV and AT&T, our legal representatives are having the normal process and context with parties within the rules and the normal course. I won't go into those details. But I will tell you, Phil, if you look at what's on the record out there and the benefits this brings, I think there's an easy path to see why this deal would get approved, and the benefits it will bring to consumers.

So I will leave it at that -- just we continue to feel good about it. With regard to Mexico, the process for Nextel first had to go through the US bankruptcy process and the opportunity for other bidders to come in. That process has all been completed. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court has approved the sale, so we are now just left with getting the regulatory authorities in Mexico with Nextel to approve it.

We are in, as you might expect, normal contact and that would be normal in a deal, respectful contact, and working through issues with them. Our experience with them on IUSACELL, our experience with them on the regulatory framework that they've set up, and the economic environment they set up, gives us confidence that that deal could close shortly.

PHIL CUSICK: And in terms of integrating those two mobile businesses once you have them?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So we will operate as one business. We will get significant benefits from the two networks. And so we will be able to utilize the infrastructure of both companies to really help us manage and really prioritize capital investments. So it really will allow us, on a combined basis, to ramp up the networks much more quickly.

As we mentioned in my prepared remarks, when you combine the two companies, they clearly have a leading Spectrum position in Mexico, which also gives us an opportunity to very efficiently ramp up. Your comment or question, Phil, with regard to will we need to spend capital on that asset? Absolutely.

We intend to get the network quality up to our standards in as quickly, as prudently possible. We're working through those plans. And once we get the Nextel Mexico merger completed, we'll have all the information at our disposal to finalize those plans. And then we'll come back to The Street at the same time we do with the DirecTV merger, and update you on those plans.

But it will take some additional capital. But, quite frankly in the Company, the size that we will become once the DirecTV and Nextel Mexico deal are closed, it will be a very manageable level of additional capital.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. Thanks, John.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Just a couple of things. I guess first on the wireless side. I think your comment is sort of, the way we would read it is, that phone-only ARPU and service revenue from a year-over-year growth perspective, have we sort of bottomed out and hit the tipping point there?

And then secondly, on wireless, what is the experience that you're having with customers that are on the Mobile Share Value when they go to upgrade? Are you seeing any unusual churn activities around those guys?

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, we're not -- quite frankly, we're not seeing any unusual trend activities, really. And I don't mean to be inappropriate, but the 1.02% postpaid churn is the best we've ever had. So -- and if you go beyond our -- if you subdivide our post-paid base into postpaid smartphones, as you can imagine, the churn is even lower. So, we feel very good about that.

With your comments with regard to service revenues, when you look at our service revenues this quarter, clearly was impacted by, so to speak, a full year of opportunity for customers to transition to Mobile Share. And really not only about a month -- no time prior to the first-quarter 2014, and only about a month of 2014 first-quarter for customers to transition.

So, this is going to be the starkest comparison or the most significant comparison time. We expect that those comparisons to get easier or to be less challenging as we go through the year, because we've established much more of a stable Mobile Share Value base, as of the end of the first-quarter compared to where we were at the end of the first quarter last year.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, John, if I can just sneak one in on just thinking about the cash flow. Any thoughts on plans for factoring in 2015 sort of a magnitude question? And then CapEx run rate a little lower than we anticipated? Is that just ahead of the deals closing?

JOHN STEPHENS: CapEx is just what we needed. It is lower than run rate. We're not changing any guidance on CapEx. It's just more of a philosophy of spend it as you need it, don't spend it early.

With regard to factoring, you can expect us to factor every quarter this year. Part of that process is to get an established track record on that. We've -- we did do it in the quarter. Even with the factoring we did in the first quarter, we added to -- as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we added to our total investment in our next customer base by about $500 million. But I think we'll -- we expect to continue to use that securitization process in an effort to eventually get to a point where we'll have another option for financing our business, whether we choose to use it or not.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, John.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Hey, John, just a couple of questions. First -- actually can you give us a number of how much factoring was done in the quarter? And then a couple of follow-ups to previous questions.

The 70% of adds coming on no-subsidized plans is a big number. Is that the sort of top that we can expect? Or can you push that still higher?

And then lastly, I think switching gears over to wireline, margins were off -- EBITDA margins were off a little bit on a year-over-year basis. Can you give us a sense for maybe what's driving that, and how that should trend on a year-over-year basis? Should we continue to see declines? Or with some of the costs coming out of the Connecticut properties, do you expect that to be bottoming around here? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So, listen, John. Let me try to make sure I hit all these, and ask me -- challenge me, if I skip one, let me know.

JOHN HODULIK: Sure.

JOHN STEPHENS: First, I think we mentioned that we had about 65% take rate on Next on about a 0.2 million net adds upgrade sales. So around 4 million Next sales. You guys can do the math on an average price of a phone to get kind of the gross receivable.

We mentioned that we increased our receivables, net increase in our investment in our customers by about $500 million. The offset to the rest of the purchase price was about $1.5 billion of factoring. And then some collections from customers for previously sold Next phones in early 2014, or even a few that we sold in 2013, that are now paying us monthly fees that we are collecting and keeping at the Company, but were not subject to prior monetizations or securitizations.

On the net adds, at 70%, I think the key assumption there is, we've seen this 60%, 65% Next take rate before, and we've seen it again in this quarter. The one thing I will tell you is that to get it to 70%, we had about 5% or about 300,000 -- a little over 300,000 BYOD devices. Those are great net adds for us. While they don't bring in any equipment revenue, they do -- they don't bring any equipment expense. And so that's a good deal for us. And they often join Mobile Share Value Plans, so they are sticky customers.

That is the unknown, if you will, that 300,000 is a little bit below what it was running on a quarterly basis the last three quarters of last year. But this is typically a slower -- first quarter is typically a slower quarter. We are still encouraged by the level of that. That will be the determinant of where we come out, whether we come out in that 60% to 65% range or if we get higher than that. We'll just have to wait and see.

But I do feel very good about the fact that, in total, that no-device subsidy is at 70%. And quite frankly, the overall base on Mobile Share Value for smartphones is at 62%, so we are running hotter than that. And then, third, the amount of those customers that are actually paying us monthly for Next today is down in the 32% range. So I'm very optimistic that the monthly Next ARPU piece, the monthly billings piece, is going to pick up from that $6.00 level.

EBITDA margins, we are going to continue to focus on, particularly on wireline, on cost savings. I think you are aware that we did an early -- a voluntary early retirement program. I think our take rates were on that were in the [3,300] range. So we'll see some savings from that going forward.

Additionally, we did see some pressure in the first quarter as we converted some of our former backhaul or interconnection and Connecticut from company-owned to leased arrangements. So they moved out of depreciation and some of those characteristics into COE. And we'll manage through that and manage the efficiencies of our operations will overcome that during the year. And those of the things we're working on to improve those margins.

And as I said, we're still confident with our guidance. And that guidance included improving margins in wireline, wireless and overall.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, great. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: And just to follow up a bit on churn, if I listen to some of the things you were saying, you've got a growing share of your base on Mobile Share Value Plans, and there's obviously a lot more value in those plans because they are more attractive.

You have a growing percentage of your base on smartphones, which you said have a lower churn profile. And you keep selling tablets, meaning your average customer probably has multiple devices, and usually that means lower churn. So, is it reasonable to think you could actually continue to improve churn from here?

I know the second quarter of last year is a tough comp, so putting that aside, or are there mitigating factors, including the competitive environment, that might just create a little bit of a floor on where you can go right now?

JOHN STEPHENS: Well, I'll say this. We are very pleased with where we came in on churn in the first quarter, particularly with the noisy and competitive environment that we operate in. But we are not giving into the fact that we can't do better from here on out. We're not predicting that. We're not guiding to that, but we're certainly striving to do that.

You are right, Brett, that the second quarter of last year is going to be a really tough comparison. But with that being said, we still are striving to do better each and every quarter than we did the last quarter. And we'll keep that effort up.

When you think about a Mobile Share Value account, there are just under about 20 million of those accounts. And they average just under three devices per account. I think -- we can get you the detailed numbers, but it's probably about 19.5 million accounts, and there's about 2.9 devices per account. And yes, that really does help with churn.

Additionally, our smartphone churn is lower than our total postpaid; effectively our feature phone churn is higher. And as we've reduced that base, down to 16% now of our base and of our postpaid base, and we are seeing flow share of only about 6%, we are optimistic that we can increase the smartphone base. And that will give us another lever to really attempt to manage churn to a lower level.

With all that being said, it is a competitive environment. And we have to be ready to handle whatever situation issues offers come out from others parties in this environment, regardless of the logic that may or may not be behind them.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. And just a quick follow-up since you mentioned the feature phone base. You know, as you sort of come towards the tail end of migrating them to smartphones, how do you think about that residual base? Is there a proactive effort to get all of them into smartphones? Or is there just an acknowledgment that some of those customers will probably eventually just come to end-of-life and you are going to let them go?

JOHN STEPHENS: We don't want to necessarily lose any customers, but we want to keep -- and we've got a lot of really good ones that are still on feature phones. But the issue is the functionality of our networks is so dramatically different when you're using a smartphone, and the value our customers can get out of our networks is so significantly -- so much greater with a smartphone, so we are certainly encouraging that.

What I will tell you that's encouraging to us, though, is that we're finding that we are having real success in the prepaid space, you know, kind of the traditional no-subsidy or low-subsidy model prepaid space, and still getting really good ARPUs, and still using a lot of maybe lower costs, but a lot of smartphones there.

We had a significant number of smartphones added to our prepaid base. So I would tell you that a feature phone that may not want to go to the full postpaid smartphone relationship might stay with us in a prepaid relationship, and still get the benefits of some very good network and quality and phones, and yet do it in a different pricing and different subsidy mechanism.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thank you for taking the question.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure.

OPERATOR: Frank Louthan, Raymond James.

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES, INC.: Can you give us a little more color on what we said about seeing some increased signs and some improvement SMB and patch comm to fiber, some additional business of the fiber build. How many additional businesses have you built? And what are some of the signs you are seeing a little bit of turn in that part of the business?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So, Frank, we built 800,000 customer locations have been passed with fiber. What we did is we built a significant amount of those to customer order with customers -- existing customers, new customers, order that and want us to build. But we also built a measurable amount to, if you will, into areas where we were confident we could sell and to be effective.

In those areas that we built and spread the copper before we had a contract in place, we are now aggressively selling into those areas. And we have been pleased about the ability to penetrate those buildings and to sell into those. So that's the encouragement.

In many of those buildings, you've seen how it works. You go into a building, it might have 20 potential customers in there and you have to sell to the first one. And once you get the first one sold, you can come back and then have some credibility with selling to the second and the third one.

So we are making some significant progress in getting those first sales inside the building. And the team is working hard under Ralph de la Vega's leadership to then go back and really maximize all the opportunities in those buildings. People love the fiber and the high-speed that it provides, the quality of that service. So this investment ahead of an order is starting to show signs of paying off. That's what's encouraging.

Additionally, we are continuing to see interest from normal business, small business customers in some of our packaged deals with regard to a combination of our bundled mobility and wired IP services. Don't want to suggest that we are seeing the small business market take off, but we are -- and our numbers will explain reasonably saying that -- but we are seeing continued strong demand for IP and strategic-based services, those ethernet-based services, those IP-based services.

FRANK LOUTHAN: And what should we expect going forward on a quarterly or annual basis for these types of businesses to pass? How many more do you have?

JOHN STEPHENS: Well, we are going to get to 1 million business customer locations passed. If you think about the run rate we've been on, it's pretty easy to think that we can get to that 1 million by the end of the year. And that would be a very reasonable process. We've publicly stated that we could get there by the end of the year or shortly thereafter. So that is what I think you can expect.

With regard to predicting growth rates or trends in the small business area, we haven't done that. But I will tell you on the overall strategic business services, I am encouraged that we are at the 32% level of revenues. I'm very encouraged that it's reached $2.6 billion. I'm very encouraged that even in this tough environment, it grew 15% on a adjusted basis. And when you take into account FX pressures, it would of grown 17%.

I think the team is doing very well. And the network we've built is attracting customers for its quality, its security, and its speed.

FRANK LOUTHAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Just wanted to follow-up on the questions around the competitive landscape. How do you think about the level of promotional activity for the course of this year versus last year? And specifically, how should we think about your strategy going forward?

Last year, obviously, you made a concerted effort to adjust pricing in order to migrate more of your subscribers onto Next. Do you foresee needing to have to do that again? It doesn't seem like, based on the comments you made on ARPU trajectory, but just wanted to confirm.

And then I'd also be interested to hear your thoughts on the Google announcement today, and whether you view it as a possible new competitor over the mid to longer-term, even though it seems fairly limited in scope, based on what they announced today?

JOHN STEPHENS: Good. I think with your first question, Amir, I think you'll continue to see us taking actions on the strategy that we have laid out already, that we are going to continue to focus on profitable customers and providing smartphone growth, Mobile Share Value, getting customers on Next or BYOD, and continuing to migrate -- now we've got 90% migrated to usage-based plans -- and use the LTE deployment of phones and the, so to speak, year-over-year growth that we've -- data growth that we've seen on those phones of about 50% to then drive data growth, and then drive higher buckets.

So that's the strategy there. Sure, I'm certain we'll have some promotional activity as we always do, but I wouldn't suggest to you that it would be out of the ordinary, out of the normal process. I will also suggest to you that we are just in the beginning phases of the connected car, of the Internet of Things, and of the opportunities that that's going to provide us.

This really deep, high-quality 308 million people are covered with LTE, or have LTE available to them, is really a great thing for all of the Internet of Thing products and services, whether they be the connected cars or the other platforms we have out there. And we believe that over terms, that we'll see really great growth there. I think we added close to 700,000 connected cars in the quarter. So, it still has a long way to go, but it's growing very quickly.

And remember, what we're seeing today is really just mostly the wholesale arrangement. And here, as we mature through this process, we'll get that opportunity to get the retail arrangement.

With regard to Google, I would suggest to you I'm not an expert on the matter, so I don't mean to be, but I understand your commentary about it's very limited. So I understand it's limited -- it's got a very limited number of devices. That's not generally the way we like to present options to customers. We like to provide a lot. My understanding it's limited in this case.

My understanding also is that there's going to be very limited distribution and customer care. And those things are items that we found our customers value. So, we'll just have to wait and see. But it's just another one of the plays in the environment that's out there.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great. Thank you very much for the color.

JOHN STEPHENS: Take care.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe two, if I could. The first one, Verizon is getting a lot of attention on the OTT strategy, both skinny bundles and the wireless side. But depending on how things shake out, AT&T could be the nation's largest video player.

Could you kind of give us a sense as to the timing and what we should be expecting coming from AT&T on this front? Are you kind of working on this pro forma knowing that the DTV deal is behind do? Or do you have to wait for the DTV deal? I think people would love to know where you guys stand on that.

And then just second, I think, John, you've thrown out a deleveraging target at some of the conferences about like 1.8 times within a three-year timeframe post the deal. Could you kind of divide -- kind of waterfall how you get there from a combination of operations and asset sales?

And then rumor has it you are running the Real Estate group at AT&T now. Could you kind of map out where the buckets for asset sales inside AT&T are and kind of scope it for us? That would be helpful. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So let me get to a couple of things. One, I won't get into any detailed plans about post-DTV AT&T. I don't think that would be prudent at this time. But what I will tell you is that over-the-top distribution of video on wireless, on broadband connections with or without linear subscription is something that I'm sure we'll see. And it's something that we will see be a part of packages in the future.

My own experience is that I see it as an add-on to a subscription package. And I think we believe that that will be the way a lot of the opportunities will go. But we are certainly open to it. And we are going to certainly be in a position to help develop that part of the process. I won't go into the Verizon situation or any specific offers on our part.

With regard to deleveraging -- and I will go this way. We are expecting free cash flow to exceed dividends, and provide cash not only in this year but in the future, to pay down debt. That's one.

Two, we are expecting EBITDA to expand. Not only just from the acquisition of DTV, but from the content savings -- or excuse me, from the cost savings that we've talked about even today. And that will expand EBITDA even more, which will, by simple math, help the metrics of net debt to EBITDA.

Third, we'll continue to look at all aspects of our asset portfolio. As I've mentioned before, we have about a $300 billion total asset portfolio today, and will only get larger with DTV and Nextel Mexico. And so we will continue to look for opportunities.

I would suggest to you that if you look at our record over the last three years, we have a pretty reliable record of generating over $15 billion worth of cash from asset monetizations. And we've done it very tax-efficiently, so we've netted a significant amount of that cash to be able to use. And we'll just continue to do the same process that we've done. I don't want to -- I wouldn't expect anyone to think that we are complete in that process, but I'm not going to get into listing any specific items.

DAVID BARDEN: Got it. Thanks, John.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure. Thanks, David.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking my questions. Two, if I could. Just one, could you disclose what the postpaid revenues were in the quarter? I think it's something that you've given out in the past. I didn't see it in this quarter's release.

Then secondly, if we just take a step back on the wireline business, you talked about the investment you made, a lot of broadband for homes with the VIP project. How should we be thinking about the impact that should have on broadband units over time being able to grow that residential broadband business? Does it take a certain amount of time before you get some benefit for the sales? Or is there something else that we should be looking out for in terms of impact there? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. Mike, I'll let Mike and the team follow-up with you on the details of the postpaid revenue details, you know, post -- and referred to what we put on the website, whatever we give you, but we'll make sure it's out there on the AT&T website. I don't have those numbers right in front of me.

With regard to the wireline business and the VIP project, and specifically, I think, Mike, you are probably referring to the 57 million IP broadband locations, I'd suggest to you this -- what we really need to see is the DirecTV deal to close. Because the transaction, the key to being successful in that area is that customers want a bundle. And so, with the closing of that transaction, we'll be able to have a bundle not only of the video services that DTV provides, but of the broadband services that we can provide.

As I mentioned before, about 30 million of those 57 million broadband locations, a little bit under that number, don't currently have a video product. Once we can do a real bundle with owner's economics and provide the efficiencies of one truck roll, the efficiencies of one service call, the efficiency of one troubleshooting call for the customers, one offer, one pricing structure, we believe that that will not only be good for our Company, but it will be very good for customers, that they will have a new competitive offer out in the marketplace.

And so, we think that the completion of our DirecTV/AT&T merger is a key factor in that process, and a key factor in bringing great quality services to customers. And from our surveys and from the information I've seen, it's what customers want. So, that will be the focus point. I would suggest to you that we'll probably have more to say on that and give some insight to that when we have our Investor Day, which will likely be within about a month after the closing of DTV.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure.

MIKE VIOLA: Hey, Tony, we'll take one more question.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. And that question will come from Colby Synesael with Cowen and Company. Please go ahead.

COLBY SYNESAEL, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: I have two, if I may. The first one, I was wondering if you can give us an update on your fixed wireless strategy? I know that was part of VIP a while ago, but I was wondering if it's changed at all with what you received in the AWS-3 option?

And then the second question is, it's my understanding that for the AWS-3 debt that you raised to pay for those proceeds, that you are capitalizing that interest. I was wondering if you could just talk about how much debt is actually being associated with the AWS-3 auction? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So, first of all, your second question of AWS -- yes, we are capitalizing that. And the amount of the debt that is being associated with that is a ratable share of our overall debt portfolio, that an overall interest cost has come down significantly over the last three years as we've refinanced debt. But it is an allocated share based on the $18 billion -- approximately $18 billion purchase price. So that is what is getting capitalized.

With regard to the fixed wireless local loop, Colby, I wouldn't suggest to you that anything's changed at this time. We still have the commitments out there in the DTV transaction. And we still stand ready to live up to those and to satisfy those in full. We think that's a clear benefit for the consumer and the marketplace as a part of that transaction.

So we're -- but we are still confident that we can satisfy that. And we'll see how that comes out. That's probably -- the finalization of the DTV deal is probably going to have to come before we are going to go through, and I'd be ready to discuss any modifications, if any, to the fixed wireless local loop plans.

COLBY SYNESAEL: Okay, thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you. With that, I want to thank all of you for being on the call today. Our work the last few years sets us up for a transformative 2015. We are ready to move quickly once the DirecTV and Nextel Mexico deals close.

Our networks are in place, our customer transformation is on track, and we are seeing tangible results in our Digital First and software-defined network initiatives. Our performance in the first quarter adds to that confidence.

Wireless turned into another solid performance in a competitive environment. Wireline's focus on profitability and strong demand for IP services brought margin stability and growing IP revenues. We are ready for our next transformative steps, and we are excited about the opportunity we have before us.

One last thing before we go. As a good friend of ours, Kathy, would tell you -- on your way home tonight, don't text and drive. It can wait. Thanks again for being on the call. And, as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good evening.

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's executive teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150424eb4m007ep
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,772 words
   PD
27 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T, Mr. Mike Viola. Please go ahead, sir.

MIKE VIOLA, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Lori. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to our fourth-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today. Like Lori said, I'm Mike Viola, head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Randall will provide some opening comments, and then close with 2015 guidance. John will cover our results, and then we'll follow it with Q&A.

Let me remind you, our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website.

I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement before we begin. It says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. And additional information is available on our Forms 8-K, other SEC filings, and on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website.

I also want to remind you that we are still in the quiet period for FCC spectrum auction 97, or the AWS-3 auction, so we cannot address any questions about spectrum today.

So with that overview, I'll now turn the call over to AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Randall Stephenson.

Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, AT&T INC.: Okay, Mike. Thanks and good afternoon. We are all fighting colds around here. Lori may end up having to handle this call for us. Before John takes you through the results, I want to take just a couple of minutes and frame where we are. 2012 to 2014 was really a period of unprecedented investment for AT&T, and for the industry, for that matter. During this period, we built our LTE network to cover more than 300 million people. We expanded our U-verse broadband footprint to 57 million customer locations. And we deployed fiber to 725,000 business locations. At the same time, we reengineered our mobile network, and we now deliver the strongest LTE signal in the US.

Now, at the same time, we have been aggressively repositioning our wireless customer base. We are giving our customers now a choice of moving way from heavy handset subsidies in exchange for lower monthly prices. And as a result, our customer satisfaction continues to climb, and defections continue to fall. And you can see that by our record low annual postpaid churn rate.

And we also delivered our best-ever full-year adjusted EBITDA service margins. We've also made a significant investment to migrate our wireline customer bases to the new platforms. At the end of 2014, 76% of our broadband customers were on our fastest IP-based platforms. And our strategic IP-based business services now represent a $10 billion annualized revenue stream, and it's growing 14% when you adjust it for the Connecticut sale.

And that brings us to 2015. Because with these foundational investments largely behind us, and several strategic investments announced to date, the groundwork has now been laid for 2015 and beyond. And today our customers are expecting us to deliver video across all of our platforms, whether it's traditional linear video, or over-the-top on U-verse broadband, or video to the mobile device. So we've been assembling the pieces that we need to do exactly that.

DIRECTV quickly and significantly shores up the economics of our U-verse video product, and it brings us the best content relationships in the industry. Our fixed broadband footprint will quickly begin expanding to 70 million customer locations in the US when we complete the DIRECTV transaction. And then the Cricket acquisition -- it is proving to be a cost-effective way to strengthen our spectrum portfolio, which is a prerequisite for being in the mobile video delivery business.

We also lay the groundwork for expanding these capabilities outside the US. We've always believed that demand for the mobile Internet and economic benefits experienced in the US would be repeated throughout the world. And so with that, we've been looking for opportunities to gain a wireless foothold in key markets for the regulatory; and the investment climate is right.

And Iusacell and Nextel International's Mexico assets gives us this opportunity. The changes in the Mexican legal and regulatory framework make it attractive for a new entrant to invest. And we've closed on Iusacell. And then once we complete Nextel, we will have a very deep spectrum portfolio, and this is the first element needed for a robust mobile Internet offering.

We will now have the ability to extend our US network directly into Mexico, building one seamless network that's spanning 400 million people. And whether it's cross-border businesses, Latino customers of either Cricket or AT&T or Mexican consumers, we will be the only company with mobile Internet capabilities spanning both countries. And don't forget, DIRECTV brings the premier video business in Latin America.

So the byproduct of this is represented on slide 5. You go 12 months from now, AT&T's revenue mix is going to look very different. It will be much more diversified. The way we integrate our products and services will be different. And when we end 2015, post-DIRECTV, our revenues will come from four areas. Our largest will be business solutions. That includes both fixed and wireless services, and it's growing nicely. In fact, in the fourth quarter, that area is growing nearly 6%.

The next area will be our consumer TV and broadband business. Then, third, will be our consumer mobility business. Then, obviously, our Latin American businesses, with satellite TV and then the Mexican mobility businesses, will be our fastest-growing area. And we like this mix a lot. And by the end of the year, we are going to be uniquely positioned in a world of high-speed connectivity dominated by video. And it's going to be a very different business.

So with that, I'm going to turn it over to you, John, to go through 2014.

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Randall, and hello, everyone. Let me start with our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 6. We finished the year strong, with solid revenue and EPS growth in the fourth quarter. Consolidated revenues grew to more than $34 billion, up 4.5% when you adjust for the sale of our Connecticut properties. This was driven by strong wireless growth as we continue to reposition our business model, and adjusted revenue growth in wireline, thanks to gains in the strategic business services and U-verse.

For the full year, we saw adjusted consolidated revenue grow by more than 3%. This helped drive strong EPS growth. Reported EPS for the quarter was a loss of $0.77; however, when you exclude the significant items we disclosed in the last weeks, earnings per share was $0.55. That's up nearly 4% from a year ago. And if you consider that last year included about $0.02 of equity income from our divested America Movil interest, that percentage would have been closer to 8%. Adjusted EPS was up slightly for the year, even after a $0.06 impact from the sale of our America Movil investment.

These adjustments include $0.94 of non-cash pressure from the year-end mark-to-market charge for our benefit plans. This was almost the reverse of last year, when we had a strong mark-to-market gain. The actuarial loss was largely driven by a decrease in the discount rate, but was partially offset by strong performance of our benefit plan investments.

We also had a $0.25 non-cash pressure from the write-off of certain network assets which we told you about earlier this month. And we had $0.13 of costs associated with wireless integration, DIRECTV transaction costs, and a loss on the sale of the Connecticut properties.

Now let's turn to our operational highlights, starting with wireless on slide 7. Before I get to the quarter, it's important to take a look back at the full year, and see how far we've come with repositioning our wireless business. It's been almost a year since we first introduced our Mobile Share Value plans, and began to accelerate the move of our smartphone base off the subsidy model to AT&T Next.

Since that time, the result has been dramatic. First, we have nearly 3.3 million postpaid net adds, thanks to strong growth of phones and tablets. That's our best full-year gain in five years, and this includes more than 700,000 postpaid phone net adds during the year. These postpaid gains, along with an end-of-year surge of connected device subscribers, thanks mainly to the connected car, helped drive 5.6 million total net adds, our strongest growth in three years.

Just as impressive, we added nearly 5 million new smartphone subscribers during the year. These high-value, high-quality customers have an ARPU of about twice that of non-smartphone subscribers. At the same time, we had our best-ever full-year postpaid churn. That's a remarkable achievement any time, but even more so when you consider the intense competitive environment we faced during the year.

We also had our best-ever full-year adjusted EBITDA service margins. We achieved that even with record full-year smartphone sales. This is the impact of AT&T Next. Already more than one-quarter of our postpaid smartphone base are on equipment installment plans. And more than half of our smartphone base has moved off the subsidy model pricing. These are the long-term results we have talked with you about throughout 2014. A repositioning of the smartphone base is working, with nearly 70% of our postpaid base now on Mobile Share plans.

Now let's look at fourth-quarter results, starting on Slide 8. Let's begin with net adds, where we had another strong quarter. We added nearly 2 million total subscribers, led by postpaid and connected devices. We added more than 850,000 postpaid subscribers, thanks to strong growth of tablets. These tablets gains more than offset a slight decline of feature phone subscribers, but we also grew high-quality, postpaid smartphone base by another 1 million in the quarter. This includes upgrades and migrations, which we don't include in our net add number.

Connected devices also continue their strong growth, as the Internet of Things begins to evolve. Nearly 1.3 million connected devices were added in the quarter, including 800,000 connected cars. Prepaid showed a loss in the fourth quarter. However, the Cricket brand is showing momentum, with positive net adds after losing customers in the pre-acquisition, year-ago fourth quarter.

The Cricket integration is going strong. Distribution has been expanded. Churn is improving. And now, nearly 3/4 of the customer base has transitioned to the AT&T network.

The fourth quarter is traditionally a strong sales quarter, and you see that in our results. We had record smartphone postpaid gross adds and upgrades, with more than 10 million smartphones sold in the quarter. That includes record total upgrades, those customers choosing to stay with AT&T and commit to new device plans. Our upgrade rate exceeded 11% in the quarter. Smartphones were 94% of all postpaid phone sales, another record for us in the quarter.

As expected, postpaid churn was up in the quarter. The fourth quarter traditionally sees increased levels of churn for all carriers. And when you add in the intense competitive activity in the quarter, it's no surprise to see churn at these levels. But even with all this noise in the market, postpaid churn levels were comparable to two years ago, the last time a fully refreshed iPhone hit the market. And this was the first time that all major carriers were able to sell that phone during the busy fourth quarter.

Now let's look at revenue gains on Slide 9. Total wireless revenues grew nearly 8%, as the revenue mix shift we have seen throughout the year continued to play out in the fourth quarter. Equipment revenue growth topped 70%, with strong AT&T Next sales. Service revenues were pressured, as customers continue to sign up for Mobile Share Value plans and move away from the traditional subsidy model. We now have more than 18 million Mobile Share accounts, covering nearly 70% of our postpaid subscribers. And about 58% of our postpaid smartphone base is on no-subsidy pricing.

Mobile Share customers continue to buy up to larger buckets of data. Half of our accounts are on the plans of 10 gigabits or larger. That compares to 27% a year ago. And we are seeing a move to even bigger, larger data plans. Nearly 20% are on plans of 15 gigs or more. That's three times more than a year ago. This helped drive an 18% increase in data billings. The take rate for AT&T Next increased to 58% in the fourth quarter, or about 5.9 million new Next customers. This impacted cash flows, but we consider this an investment in a great customer base that we are more than willing to make. We also had about 400,000 customers bring their own devices their devices on to our network.

The Next take rate was a step up from prior quarters. While we continue to see strong customer response at our Company-owned stores and agents, with a Next take rate of about 90% of upgrades, the take rate for Next through our other retailers was much less. The strong holiday sales played a role here. We typically have a higher percentage of our sales with other retailers in the fourth quarter. These stores are still becoming familiar with Next plans, and our sales show that. Plus, with the rush of the holiday season, sales personnel with these retailers don't always have the time to take the steps necessary to close a Next transaction. We'll continue to work with these stores, and expect the take rate at those locations to pick up in the future.

As expected, the strong Next take rate helped drive the second consecutive quarter of sequential ARPU growth, when you factor in Next billings. When you add in Next billings, you get a more accurate idea of what an average customer pays us every month. The average monthly Next billings were up about $28 per month, even with the introduction of the Next 24-month plan. As the Next base grows, so does the impact on billings. Nearly 27% of our smartphone base is now on AT&T Next.

Now let's move to our wireline operations on Slide 10. The transformation of our wireline networks to IP technology has helped drive year-over-year wireline revenue growth. Let me say that again. It has helped drive year-over-year wireline revenue growth when you adjust for the sale of our Connecticut operations. We are really seeing the overall revenue impact of the strategic business services and U-verse.

Total adjusted U-verse revenues increased by more than 20%, and are now about two-thirds of consumer revenues. And strategic business services revenues grew by more than 14%, and are now 30% of total wireline business revenues. Growth was even stronger when you adjust out the impacts of foreign exchange.

Overall, adjusted wireline consumer revenue increased 2.4%. Adjusted wireline business revenues were down 1.8%. However, if you adjust for the impact of discontinued global hubbing businesses and foreign exchange, that decline would have been just about 0.5%.

We are still dealing with the impacts of an uneven economy, but enterprise revenues were up slightly. However, the lack of new business formations continue to pressure small businesses. Wholesale also saw pressure in the quarter, in part due to our focus on profitable sales.

These results helped drive a sequential improvement in wireline margins, which were up 120 basis points over the third quarter of 2014. That's a reversal of trends in recent years when we had seen sequential declines between third and fourth quarter.

U-verse subscribers also grew in the quarter. We added more than 400,000 high-speed broadband subscribers, and now added 2.1 million for the full year. We finished the year with 12.2 million high-speed broadband subscribers, or more than three-quarters of our broadband base. The transformation to IP broadband is a remarkable accomplishment for our entire wireline team.

U-verse TV subscriber net adds came in at 73,000. Net adds were impacted by a strategic move to improve the profitability of our wireline consumer business. With our high content costs, we targeted profitable, long-term value subscribers with lower churn rates, while still taking market share.

Now let's take a look at margins on slide 11. Let's start with our wireless margins. Wireless margins were pressured by strong smartphone gross adds and upgrades, investment-related expenses, and wireless integration costs. We mentioned earlier that we had our best-ever full-year adjusted service margins, even with record sales, thanks to AT&T Next. We also see the impact of Next on our quarterly results.

While our wireless EBITDA service margin was down slightly when compared to a year ago, the fourth quarter of 2014 saw 2.6 million more smartphone sales than in the previous year. And if you compare the results to two years ago when smartphone sales were comparable, service margins improved over 700 basis points.

Wireline margins improved from a year ago. Wireline margins usually are flat or down between third and fourth quarter, but that trend changed last quarter. There was pressure from investment expenses and content costs, but this was offset by growth in wireline revenues and solid execution on cost initiatives. For the quarter, our adjusted consolidated margins were 14.2% compared to 15.5% in the year-ago quarter, and just under 13% two years ago. Strong smartphone sales also pressured consolidated margins, but our continued efforts for cost efficiency helped to offset some of that pressure.

Now let's move to cash flow. That summary is on slide 12. For 2014, cash from operations totaled $31.3 billion, and $5.7 billion for the quarter. Capital expenditures were $21.4 billion, and $4.4 billion for the quarter. And free cash flow before dividends was $9.9 billion, and $1.3 billion for the quarter. Free cash flow was impacted by the nearly 6 million AT&T Next sales in the fourth quarter. We pay upfront for those devices, while our customers pay us back over time.

The record upgrades and strong iPhone sales with a higher sales price mix made an impact as well. This speaks to our willingness to invest in our premium smartphone customer base. We aren't going to turn away good business to manage to a cash flow number. We have the financial strength to finance devices for our best customers who have the lowest churn and higher ARPU, and that is our focus.

At the same time, our Next receivables significantly increased, while our bad debt ratios stayed at traditionally low levels. These are high-quality receivables. We did monetize $1.2 billion of the Next receivables in the quarter, as there continues to be great interest from financial institutions, and we do expect future sales of those receivables.

Also in the fourth quarter, we sold our Connecticut wireline operations to Frontier for $2 billion. Our asset sales strengthened our balance sheet and cash position. In fact, we had more than $10 billion in cash and short-term investments on hand at the end of 2014. We had more than $3 billion in combined free cash flow and asset sales during the fourth quarter, with $18 billion for the full year.

In terms of uses of cash, dividends totaled $9.6 billion for the year, and we continue to have one of the strongest yields around. We also announced a dividend increase last month. This is the 31st consecutive year that we have increased the dividend. That puts us in a small and select group of companies.

That should give you a good idea of how we look at our dividend. Saying the dividend is important to us is an understatement. We consider it a very important aspect of our shareholder return, and are committed to it.

At the same time, we maintain the best credit ratings in the industry. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was at 1.75. And as we told you at the end of last year, the Company will continue to focus on maintaining a strong balance sheet, but expects that with pending investments, in the near-term we may go over our 1.8 times net debt to EBITDA target.

Also, as we've told you earlier, after we closed the DIRECTV transaction, our focus with free cash flow after dividends will be on paying down debt. That's a look at the fourth quarter, and at 2014.

I would now like to turn it back to Randall to talk about our 2015 outlook.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay. Thanks, John. We are going to provide more definitive 2015 guidance after we close the DIRECTV transaction, and we do expect that to happen in the first half of this year. But let me frame for you what you can expect from us this year. And I'm going to start by talking about AT&T on a stand-alone basis; that is, before our Mexico and DIRECTV acquisitions.

What we expect to deliver is continued consolidated revenue growth. Our adjusted EPS growth will be in the low-single-digit range. We will have expanding margins, consolidated wireless and wireline margins. We will also have improving free cash flow and improving dividend coverage. And then, capital expenditures will be in the $18 billion range, the same as we guided earlier, and that's thanks to the completion of a lot of the Project VIP initiatives.

Now, if we include Mexico and DIRECTV, the first thing I would want to note is that we now expect to achieve even higher multi-year synergies than we had communicated and anticipated when we announced the DIRECTV deal. So when you add Mexico and DIRECTV, we anticipate no dilution to our adjusted EPS, meaning our adjusted EPS growth, including Mexico and DIRECTV, will be in the low-single-digit range.

We will exit 2015 a very different company. We will be a company with the ability to deliver video to any device. We'll have a unique capability to integrate solutions across a diversified base of customers and geographies and technology platforms that are mobile, fast, and highly secure. And we will have a path to profitable TV growth. And we will have a nice set of growing Latin American businesses, positioned well in video and the mobile Internet.

So that's where we are focused for 2015 and beyond. We are very excited about the opportunities that are ahead here for us.

And so, with that, Lori, I think we are ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: A couple of strategic questions for Randall, if I could. First, Randall, you've been able to put together a Mexican strategy at a very reasonable cost. Is that all we should expect in terms of Mexico, given the expectation that AMX is going to be spinning off a large piece of their business over the next year or so?

And then if we could expand that, you also have a large footprint now in South America, especially Brazil. What are your thoughts on that market? And then maybe the same for Canada. You talked, at least in the release, about a North American calling market. If you could comment on your view on the attractiveness of those markets, that would be great.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Sure, John, thanks. I'll start with your question on Mexico. The America Movil asset sale has been one of those things floating out there. Nobody really yet knows what that's going to look like. And for us, if we wanted to move into Mexico, there were a couple of really unique opportunities in front of us. And to try to flush out what was going to be required by America Movil to sell their assets seemed like an uncertain process. So we pursued Iusacell.

And then with the Nextel Mexico asset, what we have here is a set of assets -- a spectrum portfolio that is really a robust spectrum portfolio; a nice cell site grid that will be a very nice place to start, and a nice customer base. So we have the makings for what we need for a very viable and strong Mexico strategy, whether America Movil sells assets or not. And so that's what we tried to do, is chart a path that would get us into Mexico and get us a platform that would sustain itself. And we like these assets. We think these assets are more than sufficient to compete in Mexico, and to go in and compete aggressively and take share. So feel good about the assets we've got.

On South America and Brazil, it's too early to say, John. What we have down there is the best pay-TV business in Latin America, and it's a business that continues to grow. It's got a great brand name down there. DIRECTV has done a very nice job of assembling some nice spectrum in various Latin American markets where they are doing a fixed wireless-type solution brand for broadband. So there are a number of markets where they have line of sight, and the ability to bundle broadband with the TV product. And their brand is strong enough that where they do that, they have really, really good success. So we are actually anxious to get the transaction closed, and leverage those assets in Latin America. And it is -- it's a really good product, a really good footprint, a really good brand. So we are excited about getting it.

On Canada, I think right now we have about as much as we as a Company can handle (laughter). I'm not prepared to start talking about going north of the border right now. We've got a lot to execute on: the DIRECTV, get the deal approved; and then we've got some serious integration efforts that we need to get busy on. And then obviously building out Mexico is going to be a full-court press for the next couple of years. So we've got more than we can chew, right -- we've bitten off more than we can chew right now, and you'll see us focus on what we have consummated to date.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks, Randall.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Randall, I guess just following on, you started off the conversation with the discussion around revenue diversification. What is your thought, just as you look at the US wireless landscape into 2015, with respect to how bad can it get from here, with respect to pricing and promotion. From AT&T's standpoint, is share loss okay? Are you willing to accept sort of lower-end share loss?

And then maybe one for John, just thinking about free cash flow into 2015, if we ex-out DTV and the acquisitions, just if you could frame out the moving parts there to give us a little more comfort on the dividend payout. And also maybe just a comment on whether or not you have talked to ratings agencies about the appetite for how high leverage could go?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, Mike. In terms of the wireless business, when you look at 2014, there was some aggressive pricing in the marketplace. But, John, I thought, did a nice job of a giving good basis of compare to 2012. So in the fourth quarter of 2012, there were three competitors with an iPhone in the marketplace. That was the last time there was a major iPhone launch. And our churn rate this quarter was very comparable to what it was in 2012. In this quarter, everybody in the market had an iPhone. And so the churn rates in the fourth quarter, relative to what we've seen in the past, were fairly consistent. When you look at the churn rates for the year, in light of what I think was a very robust pricing environment, we had our lowest churn rates ever.

Now as we move forward, we what we are really going to be focused on is the smartphone base. You are going to see us continue to penetrate our customer base with smartphones. We added 1 million in the fourth quarter by itself. And you are really going to see us focused more and more intently on the business side of the equation. And you are seeing how we are laying out what our segmentation -- what our business segments will look like as we move into 2015.

And we've had a lot of success really focusing on the business segment with our wireless products, and bundling that with VPN solutions and security solutions. And as I mentioned in the opening that when you put those two areas together -- or not put the two together -- but when we look at our enterprise business segment, both fixed line and wireless combined, it's growing 5.8% in the fourth quarter.

That business segment, that segment of customers, churns lower than any other segment of the marketplace. It is price competitive. But it's interesting, when you bundle it with VPN and other products sets, that you have a very, very nice business that grows very nicely. And as John showed, we are expanding margins as well. So we are really focused on the high-end customer base.

The area where we are seeing a lot more pressure in the market is in the feature phones. We churn feature phones much higher than our traditional smartphone base. So that's what Cricket serves the purpose to do is to help us address that end of the market with a very robust and aggressive prepaid product. And as John pointed out in his comments, Cricket -- we are getting through the transition. It is now growing; our prepaid base is growing.

That customer base is obviously a very nice complement to what we are doing in Mexico. We are looking forward to taking advantage of the Mexico footprint with Cricket. And as you noticed in the last week, we have announced that free unlimited calling from the US to Mexico. And you will see more and more of those offers materialize, going the other way, as we build out the Mexican footprint and the Mexican network.

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, this is John. With regard to free cash flow, let me frame it up this way. As you know we've announced, we are committed to do about an $18 billion range for CapEx next year. So that's about a $3.5 billion reduction in the CapEx, or improvement and free cash flow. That's step one.

Step two is with all our free cash flow -- excuse me -- with all our CapEx spending and investment, there comes some trailing expense. With a reduction in our CapEx, we will see a reduction in that trailing expense. It will not only help us with margins, but it will also help us with free cash flow. So those are two major steps.

The third one is we have invested significantly in our customer base with regard to Next. High-quality receivables; the banks continue to be interested in them. But we have a portfolio of those that we will be able to securitize this year, and we'll see some turnaround in payback of cash for those that we haven't securitized. So we are optimistic about that.

That will be pressured -- those things will be pressured by the continued success of Next. So we may re-invest some of those Next dollars that we have grown this year, we may reinvest it in our customer base. We will make those judgments as we go. And then we will see some increase in taxes, but not significant. We will likely see some increases in taxes.

With all of that being said, feel very comfortable about the increasing free cash flow and improving dividend coverage guidance that Randall mentioned. We constantly talk to the credit rating agencies; work with them on our plans, and trying to be transparent with what we have going on. I would expect we will see some -- they have made some announcements on their own, and I'm sure they will make their decisions as we kind of go through the rest of this year. And the final DTV integration plans that we have -- they will come out and make their viewpoints known. But I would tell you that those conversations have been productive and constructive, but they are well understanding our strategies and our approach.

MIKE MCCORMACK: John, I guess without the crystal ball, but thinking about the phone on the ARPU level, is there a level of penetration -- the value plans inside your base where we should start to see that more stable? I know in the past, you talked about maybe stability as we get into 2015 on various moving parts. But I guess just isolating phone-only ARPU, getting a sense for when that might be more stable?

JOHN STEPHENS: So, Mike, as you know, on the phone-only ARPU, when I think about that, I think of phone-only ARPU plus our Next billings. And if you look at that sequentially, they grew. And the difference between the historical service ARPUs and the service ARPUs, plus Next billings -- that gap has been closing. You guys can figure out the math.

But, quite frankly, when you sell almost 6 million phones in the fourth quarter on Next, and you start billing those for the entire first quarter and throughout next year on a $28 or $30 a month basis, you can understand our optimism about improving ARPUs as we define those. Remember, we define them that way because that's what the customer is paying us in cash every month, so we feel real good about where we are going and where the process is.

We are not predicting or giving a guidance with regard to when ARPU plus Next billings will be greater than they were in the prior-year quarter. But we look forward to getting through this year and continuing the progress, especially after having a fourth quarter where the sales team just did an outstanding job of adding almost 6 million customers to the Next program.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I guess the couple of things I want to hit -- one, if you could just clarify guidance. Is guidance to revenue and EPS growth, really just if we pull Connecticut out 2014, and, if so, what are the base revenue and EPS numbers?

JOHN STEPHENS: It is pulling out -- we will pull out Connecticut, as you say. We are not giving detailed analysis of the product line or sub products. But your assumption, Phil, that it is without Connecticut is correct -- that is the baseline.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. Thanks, John. And then second, if you could talk about Next, 58% in the fourth quarter. What's going on in distribution? Are you going to expand that further? And do you expect a working capital drag in 2015 to be larger or smaller than 2014?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes. So the Next sales go like this: in our Company-owned stores and our authorized agents, great performance, more than 80%, nearly 90%, as we mentioned; great take rates in a busy fourth quarter. Quite frankly, on the large national retailers and the manufacturer-owned retail stores, the take rates were smaller. But in the fourth quarter, they have a lot of activity for us. They sell a lot of our phones, a higher proportion in the fourth quarter because of the holiday season than any other quarter.

So we are optimistic about Next take rates increasing overall through the year. And we are also optimistic about working with the national retailers and the other retailers to provide them additional support on how to sell Next, and how it works. So we are still real positive about Next, and believe that we'll get the number of customers on the non-subsidy plans in line with the number of customers on Next, plus bring your own device. So we are really moving directly out of the subsidy business. That's a good thing, long-term and short-term.

With regard to the free cash flow impact, we will have the flexibility to monetize. We expect to have the flexibility to continue to monetize large blocks of these securitizations. It's worked very well. The banks continue to have very much interest. And as we've stated before, we want to continue a regular pattern of doing this, so that we build a history for this out of the -- to keep us with flexibility in financing, going forward.

I would suggest to you that the activities we have going on now are not intended to be looked at to generate cash flow, in and of themselves, to pump up cash flow in any way, shape, or form. It's really more of just a prudent management process throughout the year. We will have flexibility to push forward or pull back, depending on continued interest rates, continued attractiveness from the banks, and so forth. But so far, the process has gone extremely well. We've been very pleased with not only the demand, but also the financial terms.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: We continue to be confident this Next take rate is going to move up. As John said, in our retail channel we are now hitting 90% and it's a learning curve. People are learning how to sell this, and the mechanics, and the process for doing a handset financing program.

We then moved it into our agent channel, which is a very extensive agent channel. In the beginning it was not very impressive. And the agent channel is now beginning to perform at levels that look like our retail channel. So then you move into the big box retailers, it will follow a similar curve. And we have come through the holiday season, and John mentioned it -- they are pushing volumes. And this takes a little bit more time to sell a handset that is financed, rather than just one in a box. So it's just going to be a learning curve, and we are going to stay patient. But we actually feel very good that the numbers continue to move in a positive direction.

PHIL CUSICK: Good. Thanks, Randall.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Randall, you talked a little bit about DIRECTV. Could you just give us a little bit more insight into the deal process? The 180-day clock expires in March. I think you referred to a first-half close, so how that's going? And any updates on the synergies? I think you talked about higher numbers. Is that content synergies? Is that more bundling synergies? Is that something that's going to come in early on, versus later?

And I think you also talked about video to any device. I know Verizon has talked about an over-the-top rollout in mid-year. So is this something that you are going to have a similar type offering this year? And is that contingent on the DIRECTV close? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: First of all, deal process -- you nailed when the 180-day clock is running again. But obviously there is a legal challenge going on between the content providers and the FCC. That's kind of the big unknown in our process right now. We are hopeful that the two parties -- the FCC and the content folks -- can get that deal settled in short order. I believe there's a court proceeding that's do here soon that will help determine the pace at which that progresses.

But even with that, Simon, we are still fairly confident that this thing gets done, first half of the year. And so I can't get any more refined than that because of this issue. So this issue would be the only issue that would cause a delay of the 180-day clock to our knowledge right now.

As it relates to the synergies, there's a fairly predictable formula with us when we do these large-scale deals. When we are doing the deals, we tend to be fairly conservative. And we have, obviously, have begun with the DIRECTV management team some parlor discussions, and getting to a level of detail that is appropriate within the confines of a DOJ review and so forth. So we are starting to see details on channels and channel cost, and so forth. And as a result, as you start drilling down through it, it's fairly much across the board, we are seeing better opportunities than what we baked into the original deal economics.

And so that's why we are feeling pretty confident that we will exceed the merger synergies that we announced at the time we did the deal. Across the board, they are looking good. There are even revenue synergies. When you have 20 million DIRECTV customers that are very, very high-end customers, and seeing what the wireless penetration rate that we have in that customer base -- it looks really good, the opportunity to be able to sell mobility into those channels, and so forth. So, across the board, cost synergies, a few revenue synergies; it's all looking better than what we had anticipated when we announced the deal.

And then in terms of video to any device, this is one of the key opportunities that we were pursuing when we did this deal. Our customers are demanding video to be delivered across any device. And so one of the primary objectives we will have coming out of the close of the deal is taking advantage of the content relationships that DIRECTV has in our wireless customer base. We envision customers being able to walk out of our stores with content available to them on devices that they have purchased in our stores.

You are familiar with the Otter deal that we have done with the Chernin Group, where we are developing over-the-top content with them, and taking advantage of ways of delivering that to our customers as well. So it's going to be a multi-faceted approach, in terms of how we bring video to our customers. But we are looking at multiple channels and channel lineups that we would be able to accommodate into our wireless customers, both tablet as well as handsets, as well as our broadband customer base -- 16 million broadband customers. So, stay tuned. There will be more to come. But this is a high priority for us is getting the content delivered to the mobile handsets and tablets.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: A couple follow-on questions, if I could. John, if there was an attractive opportunity in Latin America, maybe something sizable like America Movil is expected to be, given your funding requirements over the next few years, do you think a transaction like that -- you could do a transaction like that and stay within a comfortable leverage range? Or should we expect some equity component for a sizable transaction?

And then, Randall, part of the strategy of allowing the base to move to new pricing, with the help on the churn side, and while we saw the benefits of that over the prior two quarters, we did see churn return to a level similar to two years ago, as you pointed out. Are you comfortable with the current pricing strategy in place right now? And do you think this fourth quarter was more of a one-time-ish in nature, or should we expect churn to remain at elevated levels as we move throughout 2015? Thank you.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: I'll answer John's question on Latin America. The America Movil thing is just too uncertain to even answer a question on it. And I will say it again: we've got all we can handle right now in Mexico. And we are going to be focused on getting Nextel international closed, integrating that network, integrating those customer channels, integrating the distribution channels, and getting ourselves scaled in Mexico. So anything else is just kind of speculation, and probably isn't worth conversation at this point.

In terms of churn, I would tell you I am comfortable with the performance we had in the fourth quarter as it relates to churn. I'll say it again: when you compare it to two years ago, which was the last major iPhone launch, and only three national carriers carrying the iPhone, to have a comparable level of churn with the kind of pricing moves we are seeing in the marketplace versus two years ago, I think that's pretty good performance. And its performance for the quarter, we are comfortable with.

We are, as I mentioned before, really focused on that area of our customer base that tends to have lower churn. And that is our business customer base and high-end consumer customer base where we are experiencing the churn, as John said, in the feature phone side of the house. We will address that with our Cricket platform.

So right now, it's -- who can call where pricing goes in this industry? I haven't the slightest idea. It moves. It's very volatile. But right now, we like the value equation we have in the marketplace. We have a customer base that demands reliability, that demands speed, and that demands quality. They demand a very sophisticated consumer channel and business channel.

We have probably the most sophisticated business channel in the industry for B2B. And we think it's very important. And we think also that that B2B customer segment is more and more demanding security solutions, integrated all the way through the cloud with our NetBond strategy. That's proving to be a very powerful combination in the marketplace. So that's where you will see us focus. And, like I said, I can't predict where pricing will go.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI: [That's it]. So, thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Maybe first one, just Randall, obviously your views have been expressed on this Title II as a way to get to the net neutrality issue. But I guess from the investment community standpoint, are you of the view that there is going to be really anything different about the business, in terms of the business you do, or how you do it? Or are the investments you are making kind of on a middle- to long-term basis? If you could kind of talk us through the investment side of that equation.

And then, John, just a question on the write-down of the copper plant. Could you talk a little bit about what that was, where it was, and what kind of expectations we have for that going forward? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure, David. Let me give Randall a break, and then I'll take the copper question first. We went through a study. And in our business, there is active pairs that are copper pairs that are connected to customers and serving customers. There is spare pairs in our network that are available that are in great working conditions and available to be used if needed. And then there are what we would consider dead pairs, or pairs that need significant repair work that are not connected to any customers, and need significant repair work and investment to make functional.

We did a detailed study across our network, by our network engineers, in conjunction with them; identified, marked, and made the decision to abandon those ineffective pairs, or what the engineers would call dead pairs.

We have plenty of capacity to serve our customers with our active pairs and spare pairs, so we don't expect any limitations on that. That's how we went through the process. It was a very extensive process. It was a very unusual process to go through. We don't expect any further write-offs like this. We are not aware of any. We just felt it was appropriate to recognize this fact.

Anybody that's followed our business has seen the change in our access line customer base over the last five or six years can understand that we would have pairs that would be inactive; and, in this case, ones that were not economical to activate, not to mention the fact there's not demand for us to make that investment. So that's the background [on it]. It's across our traditional wireline footprint.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: My favorite topic, Title II. (laughter)

DAVID BARDEN: Sorry, Randall.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Look, I'll address it from a couple of perspectives. First, net neutrality -- what this debate started out to be pursuing was, how do we protect net neutrality? A neutral Internet. And I would tell you, I don't know of anybody in the industry that really argues that we shouldn't have net neutrality. Indeed, the President laid out four principles for what that meant. And we look at that those four principles and said, you know, we are okay with those. Those four principles, if what resulted from all of this was the FCC were given authority to enforce those four principles, it has no bearing or impact on our investment decisions; none whatsoever.

What causes us pause is if the way you effect those four principles is by categorizing the Internet and wireless services as Title II communications services, that's a different deal. That's something we have to say, what does that mean? And what are the implications of categorizing these services as Title II services to our industry?

The example I give is we are, right now, trying to obsolete our old legacy telephone services, moving to IP or to all wireless. And there is a very specific process one has to go through to obsolete those services, and replace them with the new, advanced services. And we are working through that with the FCC. It's a very collaborative process. It works, but it takes a lot of time to make that happen. And we think that we might be able to get to a point where we can obsolete these services and begin replacing them with the new services by 2020.

That's an aggressive timeline. The idea of beginning to put our wireless services and our broadband products under those categories, and subjecting ourselves to that kind of regulatory oversight is what causes us pause. And when we say we are pausing investment until we understand where this is going -- that's what we are referring to.

Now, if Chairman Wheeler can find some creative solution of categorizing these as Title II, but doesn't cause the industry to slow down, doesn't cause investment cycles to slow down, does not cause innovation cycles to slow down -- then, you know, it will give us some confidence and relief to continue investing at the same pace we have. But until we kind of have clarity -- and we are saying we are just, on any new investments, we are in a bit of a pause mode.

But it's really up in the air right now. There are a lot of ways of getting at what the President has articulated he wanted to accomplish. One of them is, Congress is working on it. And that is that Congress would pass legislation that would give the FCC the authority to enforce the four principles that the President articulated were important. That works, to us.

That puts us very similar to where we are today, and probably doesn't change our investment thesis for anything we are trying to do. But, you know, these really strident, heavy-handed regulations on wireless and broadband, if we go down that path, that's what causes everybody some apprehension and uncertainty, and begins to change investment theses and so forth. So it's up in the air. Right now, we are just anxious to see where the FCC comes out so we can all begin to formulate our plans.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Randall.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was wondering if we could chat briefly about your commentary that post the completion of some of your pending acquisitions, and some other initiatives that seem to be on the table, your debt coverage ratio may go over that sort of 1.8 times level. Could you perhaps give us a sense on where that could go? And, perhaps, what is your priority maintaining your near-term credit rating? It sounds like discussions with credit rating agencies have been constructive. But I was hoping to get some clarification, if possible.

JOHN STEPHENS: I'll take that. If you look at the DIRECTV transaction, based on some of their most recent published financials, you will know that there is a cash piece of the transaction that would approximate about $15 billion. And I think if you go back to their last published financial statement, their gross debt level could be in that $18 billion to $20 billion level. That would be the debt we would be adding on, as well as any impact from closing Nextel and Iusacell, as compared to our first quarter.

And then we've got some other -- as we mentioned, we can't talk about the spectrum auctions, and so we won't do that. But we will have other impacts from matters ongoing that will impact our debt ratings. With regard to that, it is very conceivable that our net debt to EBITDA ratio would go above 2 -- I think that's assumed -- and possibly in somewhere in between the 2 to 2.5 range. And I know that's a wide range but that's where we feel comfortable right now stating it. Those are the kinds of levels of debt that we would expect that could occur once we close all the transactions.

What we would then focus on doing is because we would have accretive free cash flow after the DTV transactions, we've said before we would take the excess cash flows after dividends and use that -- commit that to paying down debt as quickly as possible. We've suggested that over the course of a three-year cycle, that ought to get us back to more what is traditional levels for us. That's the 1.8 times net debt to EBITDA.

If you look at our current cost of borrowing, some of our recent transactions -- but, quite frankly, our entire portfolio today -- we have after-tax cost of debt well below 3%. So it's producing interest expense at a very acceptable level at 1.8, where just a few years ago interest expense rates were higher. You might have gotten a comparable answer with a 1.5 or a 1.6 net debt to EBITDA. So that's where we are at.

We will let the debt rating agencies deal with it as they see fit. But we are comfortable with where we are going, and we understand the implications.

The last thing I would say, Amir, as we announced last week, we have set up a facility with a collection of banks an 18-month, 3-year, and 5-year terms for over $11 billion. The net after-tax cost of that debt averages less than 1%. And we have been very transparent with our plans and activities, such that reasonable people, as the banks are in this process, are still very interested in providing a significant funding at very attractive rates, with an ability for us to prepay it without penalty, and an ability us to leave the, if you will, facility open until such time as we need it.

So we feel real good about where we stand in the credit markets. We'll continue to work on it, but we continue to feel good about where we are at.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much, John. One additional follow-up, if I may. In addition to your significant acquisition activity, you folks have also been successful at monetizing some non-core assets over the last 12 to 24 months. I was wondering if we should consider this element of your strategy, and how it may fit into your priorities for 2015.

JOHN STEPHENS: Amir, that's a great question. I'm not going to comment on the specific items. I think we started talking about monetization of assets, back three years ago. I think our first major transaction we did was with the Yellow Pages transaction. So if you think back from that timeframe to today, you clearly understand the multi-billion, tens of billions of dollars we generated.

I'll say this: we have a $300 billion of assets on our balance sheet. And we have a history of being 10 -- in the Fortune 100-type publicly traded companies. We are not done yet. We have an opportunity to do more. We will continue to evaluate. And as management, we have an obligation to maximize returns on our assets. So getting to high utilization and high results, that's part of our responsibility and we will continue to focus on it. But with a balance sheet as large as ours, it would be inappropriate to claim that things are complete. There's always opportunities.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for the color.

MIKE VIOLA: Lori, we'll take one more question.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: So, earlier, Randall was talking about lessons learned as you move up the curve with Next. One of your competitors, T-Mobile, has learned that they can change the way they provide credit to their customers. They are placing a higher priority now on payment history than some of the traditional credit metrics. Have you learned the same thing? And is there any change in the way you are extending credit to your customers as they adopt Next? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: I don't think there are lessons learned. I think all of us, over the years in this industry, know that you know your customers better than anybody else does. Customers that have been with you for a period of time, regardless of what their credit scores are, you tend to treat differently. We have, for many years, done that; whether it be on the fixed line side for broadband, U-verse -- customers who pay us well that may have lower credit scores, we have actually gone ahead and extended them services like U-verse, which require significant upfront investments and so forth.

You do it on the business side of the house, too. You know your customers well. And so you are willing to invest in your customers that to know who may have credit scores that are weaker than what a new customer -- you would be willing to do with a new customer coming in with a low credit score.

So there are not any new games in this business. We've all been playing this credit scoring game for a long time. It is a fairly predictable process. We know our customers well. We know when we tweak credit policy, what to expect, and within what timeframe to expect bad debt reactions. It's actually gotten fairly mechanical and arithmetic, to be quite honest with you. So I don't think there's any new science out here on this.

BRETT FELDMAN: And are you finding that the banks that you are working with are recognizing those lessons that you have learned in the way they finance your receivables?

JOHN STEPHENS: Absolutely. We've gotten very high -- it's one of the reasons why we have high demand in the securitization process, and we are able to get the pricing levels that we are able to get. So they absolutely demand -- recognize that. I think, quite frankly, all of you know, all you have to do is go to our financial statements [and our] provisions for bad debts to understand, with a company that has over $130 billion worth of revenues, you can clearly see just how effective we are at managing -- particularly in a difficult economy -- how effective we are at managing our receivables. The team has done a very good job across the board -- business, consumer, through processes just like Randall described.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thanks for taking the question.

MIKE VIOLA: You bet. Thank you, Brett. And thank everybody for joining us, and taking the time to listen in on the call. As we articulated at the beginning, we feel very good about where we are going in 2015. And as we get to the end of 2015, we are going to be talking about a very different business and a very different company. And we are excited about it, and look forward to working with you over the course of this year. So thanks again for joining us.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you all very much. Take care.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our teleconference. We thank you for using AT&T Executive Teleconference Service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150130eb1r0008e
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,711 words
   PD
22 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter earnings release 2014 conference call. (Operator Instructions). At this time, I will turn the conference call over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T, Mr. Michael Viola. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
MICHAEL VIOLA, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Tony, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to our third-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today. I am Mike Viola, head of Investor Relations for AT&T.

Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. John will provide an update with perspective on the quarter and then we will follow that with the Q&A session.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of AT&T's website, and that's att.com/investor.relations.

I need to call your attention to our Safe Harbor statement before we begin. It says that some of our comments today may be forward looking. As such, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Results may differ materially and additional information is available on the investor relations page of AT&T's website.

I also want to remind you that we are in the quiet period for FCC spectrum auction 97 and the AWS-3 auction, so we cannot address any questions about spectrum today.

So with that overview, I now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer John Stephens. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today and we always appreciate your interest in AT&T.

Before we report out on our quarterly results, I'd like to update you on Project VIP and the longer-term view of our business transformation. We have been focused on building ultrafast video-centric networks and providing mobile connectivity to any device anywhere our customers needed.

I am pleased to say we've made great progress. It has been nearly two years since we first announced our VIP initiatives and our plans to transition to IP networks. Basically, we are doing everything we said we were going to do and more.

We reached our 4G LTE build target in the third quarter, four months ahead of schedule. The nation's most reliable LTE network now covers more than 300 million people. We continue to improve our cell site density and add capacity to help keep our network best in class.

We're also on pace with our wireline network goals. Our high-speed IP broadband network now reaches 57 million customer locations. About two-thirds of our U-verse video footprint now has access to 45 megabit per second speeds.

We also continue to make progress on expanding our U-verse video footprint and we committed to deploy ultrafast AT&T GigaPower service in 17 markets.

Our fiber to the business expansion also is going strong. We now pass more than 600,000 new business customer locations with fiber, well on our way to our 1 million goal.

The transformation of our customer base also continued in the quarter. Two years ago when we first introduced Project VIP, less than half of our broadband customers had high-speed IP broadband. Now a significant part of that transition is complete, with nearly three-quarters of our base on high-speed U-verse broadband, and our strategic business services are on track to be nearly 30% total wireline business revenues by the end of this year.

The transition in wireless is just as dramatic. There has been a steady shift of our subscribers to usage-based plans. More than 80% of our smartphone base is now on usage-based plans. At the same time, Mobile Share Value has helped move customers off the traditional subsidy model.

We also have launched new business opportunities that will leverage our investment in our high-speed networks. The Connected Car is ready to take off. In the third quarter alone, we added more than 500,000 Connected Cars, as the 2015 models start to roll off the assembly lines.

Digital Life, the first all-digital, all-IP home security and automation platform, has launched in 82 markets and has about 140,000 subscribers.

And AT&T has completed a Network On Demand trial in Austin that will enable companies to easily order, add, or change services on their own in near-real time. A commercial rollout of Network On Demand-enabled Ethernet services is expected in Austin by the end of this year.

Our financial strength allows us to invest while still returning substantial value to shareholders. In fact, since 2012, we have returned more than $50 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. Our cash flows are strong and we have been aggressive in monetizing nonstrategic assets.

Including the sale of our Connecticut wireline property, we have generated about $16 billion in cash proceeds from asset sales. This has helped us average nearly $20 billion a year in free cash flow and asset sales over the last two years, and we expect to do the same this year, 2014.

At the same time, we have kept our financial house in order by funding our pension plan, making significant working capital improvements, and taking advantage of historically low interest rates. This is the heavy lifting our employees are doing every day that you don't always notice in the quarterly numbers. We aren't just managing for the short term; we're managing and investing for the long term.

Now with that view, let's take a look at third-quarter results, starting with our financial summary on slide 4. Consolidated revenue grew to $33 billion, up $800 million or 2.5% year over year. This was driven by continued wireless growth, as we reposition our business model; solid consumer wireline growth, once again led by U-verse; and continued growth in strategic business services.

Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.58. In the quarter, we had $0.03 of costs associated with merger and integration-related expenses. We also redeemed some debt early in the quarter to take advantage of low interest rates. Those redemption costs had a $0.02 impact on the quarter. When you exclude these items, earnings per share were $0.63, compared to an adjusted $0.66 a year earlier.

Cash from operations continued at a strong rate and we also continue to find ways to monetize assets. Together, that has generated $32 billion in cash year to date, with year-to-date capital spending of $17 billion and about $7 billion paid in dividends so far this year.

With all of that, our cash position remains strong, even as we continue to return substantial value to shareholders.

Now let's turn to our operational highlights on slide 5. The third quarter was another solid step forward in the transformation of our business. This included strong subscriber metrics in both wireless and wireline and continued growth in strategic business services.

In wireless, we saw good -- in fact, great trends in a challenging environment, including more than 2 million net adds. That included adding twice as many postpaid subscribers as we did in the year-ago third quarter, record low third-quarter postpaid churn, solid wireless revenue growth, and improving adjusted service margins, even with record third-quarter smartphone gross adds and upgrades.

We also saw the continued transition of our customer base to AT&T Next and Mobile Share Value plans, while also realizing sequential ARPU phone growth.

In wireline, U-verse hit some important subscriber milestones. We now have more than 12 million high-speed broadband subscribers. The transition phase of moving our broadband base to IP is nearing completion, with about 75% of our total broadband base on our higher-speed service. We also reached more than 6 million U-verse video subs. That helped drive strong U-verse revenue growth and continued wireline consumer gains.

U-verse is now a $15 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at nearly 24%.

In wireline business, strategic services growth continues at a strong pace. It's now a $10 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at more than 14%.

With those highlights, let's now drill down and take a look at our operating results, starting with wireless. We had a great net add quarter. That's a trend we have been seeing throughout the year.

Overall, we added more than 2 million total subscribers, led by postpaid and connected devices. We added nearly 800,000 new postpaid subscribers. That's twice as many as the year-ago quarter. About 450,000 of those were tablets and computing devices, with the remaining net adds phones and some Digital Life. And year to date, we have added more than 2.4 million postpaid subscribers, which also doubles last year's pace.

Another key point with our postpaid net adds is that we are adding these customers while maintaining high credit standards. These are rock-solid, high-quality new subscribers. These net adds exclude any migrations from our prepaid segment.

Connected devices also had a strong quarter as we started to see significant impact to the Connected Car. Nearly 1.3 million connected devices were added in the quarter, including more than 0.5 million cars.

Churn turned in another strong quarter. In fact, it was our best-ever third-quarter postpaid churn. That follows our best-ever churn in the second quarter, and churn for Mobile Share Value and AT&T Next customers is even lower. Total churn for the quarter was up slightly to 1.3% -- 1.36%, reflecting a larger prepaid base with the March acquisition of Cricket. These are solid results in a challenging environment.

We saw competitive intensity pick up in an iPhone launch quarter, with all major carriers now offering the iPhone. We expect that to continue as we move into the holiday sales period in the fourth quarter.

We believe strongly in the quality of our network, our award-winning customer service, and the value proposition we offer customers. Our results so far this year show we are on the right track and we are looking to finish the year strong.

Now let's look at revenue and ARPU on slide 7. We continue to see a shift in wireless revenues as customers sign up for Mobile Share Value plans and away from the traditional subsidy model. Total wireless revenues for the quarter were up nearly 5%, service revenues were stable year over year, and equipment revenues were up more than 40%.

The take rate for AT&T Next was about the same as last quarter, about half of gross adds and upgrades.

We also saw an increasing number of subscribers bringing their own device to our network, about 460,000 or 7% of smartphone gross adds were bring your own device, or BYOD. That's more than four times what we saw in the year-ago third quarter and more than 1 million BYOD customers year to date.

We continue to have a large base of customers on discounted Mobile Share Value plans who have yet to migrate to Next. About 20% of our smartphone base is on Next, but about 52% of smartphone subscribers are on the non-subsidy pricing. This means that there are about 20 million potential Next customers we expect to upgrade. That's up from 17 million at the end of the second quarter.

Next take rates continue to be strong in Company-owned stores. Nearly all or more than 90% of our Mobile Share Value customers with pre-Next pricing are choosing AT&T Next when they upgrade in Company-owned stores.

It all comes down to customer choice. Customers can choose the plan that is best for them and that's great for us, and right now, most customers are choosing to go off the subsidy model when they upgrade or add a new line.

Also in the quarter, we continued to see customers buy up to larger data plans and more are interested in device insurance. This is helping drive revenue.

Now let's look at postpaid ARPUs. The expected trends we talked about last quarter are happening as more customers take AT&T Next. Phone-only service ARPU is down year over year, but up sequentially. When you add in Next billings, you get a better view of what an average customer pays us each month.

Phone-only ARPU with Next billings improved sequentially by 2%. The average monthly Next billings are about $29 per month, driving our ARPU with Next higher. As the Next base grows, so does the impact on billings.

We also continue to see strong growth in data billings. Those details are on slide 8. Wireless data billings increased by nearly 24% in the quarter. This was due to the increasing number of devices on the network and customers choosing 10-gigabit plans or larger. More than half of all Mobile Share accounts are on these plans.

During the quarter, we added more than 2 million Mobile Share accounts, giving us 16.7 million in total. That's three times as many as we had a year ago. We averaged about three connections per Mobile Share account, or nearly 47 million connections in total. That's roughly 60% of our overall postpaid base.

Smartphone sales continue to be strong. In fact, we had 6.8 million smartphone gross adds and upgrades. That's a third-quarter record. It would have been even higher without inventory constraints.

We added 1.2 million subscribers to our smartphone base, including about 500,000 smartphone net adds. Most of our sales continue to be smartphones, about 91% of the flow share. About two-thirds of our postpaid smartphone base used LTE phones. As you know, LTE devices provide the best customer experience, while also being the most efficient on our networks.

Let's now look at our wireline results, starting with consumer on slide 9. U-verse hit two subscriber milestones in the quarter. First, we now have more than 12 million high-speed broadband subscribers, after adding more than 600,000 in the quarter. U-verse broadband is now 73% of our total broadband base and 75% in the consumer broadband base. That's up 70% in the last two years. That has helped drive total postpaid -- to help drive total positive broadband net adds in the quarter.

We also continue to deploy our ultrahigh-speed GigaPower service. We now offer 1-gigabit speeds in Austin and have turned up the service in Dallas and Fort Worth. We have also committed to deploy GigaPower in 14 additional markets, including Houston, Miami, and Atlanta.

We also passed the 6 million mark with U-verse TV subscribers, adding 216,000 in the quarter.

Bundles continue to play a big role in our growth. More than 97% or virtually all of our video customers have some kind of bundle with us, most often broadband and video. Nearly two-thirds of our U-verse TV subscribers take three or four services with us.

ARPU for U-verse triple-play customers continues to be more than $170. That helps drive revenue growth, while reducing churn. In fact, triple-play bundled customers have significantly lower churn than standalone customers.

All this helped drive 3% revenue growth in consumer. Total U-verse revenues are now more than a $15 billion annualized revenue stream and are continuing to grow at nearly 24% year over year. U-verse now represents 64%, or nearly two-thirds, of our consumer revenues. That compares to 54% just a year ago.

Now let me take you to our wireline business results on slide 10. We also reached another significant milestone in the wireline business. Strategic business services -- those are growth services, such as VPN, Ethernet, hosting, and other advanced IP services -- are nearly a $10 billion annualized revenue stream for us now. These services make up more than 28% of business wireline revenue and grew by more than 14% in the third quarter.

At our current growth rate, strategic business services should be about 30% of business wireline revenues by the end of the year.

Overall, business revenues declined by 2% in the quarter. Service revenues were also down 2% year over year.

The shift to IP data and away from legacy services, as well as the economy, is the story in wireline business. But within the business, there are some differences. Our retail service revenues actually grew year over year. Those are service revenues from enterprise and small business.

Enterprise revenues were up 1.7%. That's its best performance in years and the sixth consecutive quarter of service revenue growth. Small business trends also improved. That's even with a lack of new business formations.

On the other hand, wholesale was again challenged by network grooming issues. We also made a strategic decision to refocus the wholesale business. That reduced wholesale revenues about $50 million in the quarter and we expect that amount to increase in the fourth quarter and thereafter.

The positive trends in retail service revenues are encouraging, as is the transition to IP services from legacy products. But the economy and fewer business starts continue to make for a challenging environment and clearly call for the government to move towards tax reform legislation.

Now let's look at consolidated and wireline margins on slide 11. For the quarter, our adjusted consolidated margin was 17.2%, compared to 18.5% in the year-ago quarter. Wireless margins were pressured by strong adoption of Mobile Share Value plans, solid customer growth, promotional activities, and the Leap acquisition.

However, when compared to the year-ago third quarter, adjusted wireless EBITDA service margins actually expanded to 43.1%. That's a solid performance, given our very strong postpaid and smartphone net adds, as well as record third-quarter gross adds and upgrades.

Wireline margins were pressured by increasing content costs and transformation expenses. Lower legacy revenues also contributed to pressure. But this pressure was partially offset by growth in consumer revenues, gains in strategic business services, and solid execution on cost initiatives.

Now, let's move to cash flow. Our summary is on slide 12. In the first nine months of the year, cash from operations totaled $25.6 billion and $8.7 billion for the quarter. Capital expenditures were $17 billion and $5.2 billion for the quarter. And free cash flow before dividends is $8.6 billion and $3.5 billion for the quarter.

We did monetize about $500 million of Next receivables in the quarter, as there continues to be great interest from financial institutions, and additional tranches in the future are possible.

Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.7 and our credit rating continues to be among the best in the industry.

In terms of uses of cash, dividend payments year to date totaled $7.2 billion and we continue to be opportunistic with our share buyback program.

Our asset sales strengthen our balance sheet and cash position. When you include the $1.9 billion in short-term investments, we had $4.3 billion of cash at the end of the third quarter. We also expect to close the sale of our wireline assets in Connecticut with Frontier this Friday, which will enhance our cash position with $2 billion in proceeds.

Let me close with a quick summary of the quarter on slide 13. We continue to make progress with our business transformation in this quarter and throughout this year. That includes the repositioning of our postpaid base off the subsidy model. Mobile Share counts continue to grow, and about 57% of our gross adds and upgrades in the quarter were either AT&T Next or BYOD.

At the same time, we continue to see strong total and postpaid net adds with low postpaid churn in a very challenging environment.

We also continue to rationalize our business portfolio. This includes completing the sale of the America Movil equity interest, closing Connecticut wireline property transaction two months earlier than we had expected, and exiting select low-margin wireline wholesale businesses.

This rationalization, as well the impact of more BYOD devices than we had expected, and fewer Next -- AT&T net gross adds and upgrades, will impact revenues. The Company now expects full-year consolidated revenue growth in the 3% to 4% range.

Even with this change, we expect that Next rates will increase for the rest of the year, and continued strong BYOD will help with margins, even with traditional fourth-quarter holiday pressure.

Overall, we continue to have confidence in our strategy and our ability to compete in this challenging environment.

With that, Tony, let's go ahead and take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: John, you have made a lot of protective moves this year, obviously, and we are seeing phone-only ARPU stabilizing, but EBITDA has gone ex-growth. I guess just trying to think into 4Q, I'm assuming that the expectation clearly without subsidies is to see a decent number in year-over-year growth and EBITDA.

Then just, as part of that, if you could identify what you are seeing out there with respect to recent data points from the iPhone with respect to sticker shock on this whole issue of people being concerned about layering EIP payments on top of the existing plan. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Mike, I appreciate your question. First of all, on the sticker shock issue itself, quite frankly with 90%-plus of the people coming into our stores, we are not seeing -- I won't say we haven't seen one or two, but we are not seeing any strong number at all of sticker shock.

The reality of it is is for a person to come in and go to a subsidized model, they have got to come up with $240, plus whatever taxes they have to pay, and if they stay on the Next model, they not only get the cheaper service on a monthly basis, but the upfront costs are really only about $50.

From a sticker shock, it's much more positive to go on Next than it is to come up with that down payment for the subsidized phone. So we -- and we really aren't seeing that at all.

On the expectations for the fourth quarter, won't go into details, but as we have said before, we expect a significant improvement in margins, EBITDA service margins in the fourth quarter, compared to prior years, and we're still working towards achieving what we've said in the past and that is all four quarters this year to be 40% EBITDA service margins or better.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: My question is on the improvement on the ARPU side. John, could you just talk a little bit about what the drivers are of the sequential improvement we saw in phone ARPU and the improvement we saw in the postpaid ARPU?

And then, as it relates to the pre-Next program, it looks like you went from 17 to 20 in the quarter. That's a real slowdown. Have you guys repositioned the basis as much as you think is necessary or are we going to see that reaccelerate in the fourth quarter? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Great, so on the ARPU story, I think the biggest issue with the improvement is really the people buying the bigger buckets and buying -- upping plans, as we've mentioned.

We got over 50% of the customer base at the 10-gig or bigger plans and we believe that is really helping on the ARPU side. We still have -- we still expect more customers to migrate to the Mobile Share Value plans, so we may still see some more pressure from existing customers on that ARPU side, but buying the bigger buckets is definitely helping.

Secondly, on the Next take rates, the two uniqueness of this quarter -- two items that are unique to this quarter were, one, the significant BYOD, and while those 400,000-plus BYOD devices really don't bring us much, if anything, in revenue and caused an adjustment in our thoughts on revenue, they don't bring any expense, either. So, we will take those every time we can get them. That seemed to have an impact on the Next take rate.

The other issue is where inventory was available in the launch month, which was September, where customers have a much higher experience -- a better experience going to Next in our Company-owned stores. But in the launch cycle, sometimes inventory was constrained, so people would go to different locations where our experience level in Next hasn't been as high, particularly in some of the new channels, like some of the big-box stores or some of the manufacturer stores.

So we would expect that to get to those higher levels over time, so we do expect the rate to increase. It's just going to take a longer time than we had expected.

JOHN HODULIK: Got it, thanks.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. John, I just wanted to clarify the postpaid net add estimate did not include internal migrations from prepaid. And then, to what extent did you see prepaid migrations to postpaid maybe coming from your peers and have you made any changes to your credit standards?

JOHN STEPHENS: So a couple things, so we haven't made any changes to our credit standards in any way, shape, or form that would be significant or any change that would change any traffic.

Secondly, we do not count any migrations from, for example, our Cricket product into our AT&T product. Those would be excluded not only for phones, but for tablets. That's not how we count or have ever counted that information.

I can't comment, necessarily give you a lot of a significant information with regard to any change in the migration from the customers that are porting into us, whether they were previously prepaid or postpaid customers of the other carriers. I can't -- what I mean to say by that is I can't -- I don't want to indicate that there is any significant change in that. I'm not aware of that, so I'll leave it at that.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI: Got it, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, are you still committed to the $21 billion capital spending guidance? You imply just a $4 billion number for the fourth quarter, and how are we thinking about that for -- is $21 billion still a good number for 2015 under VIP?

And then on wireline margins, you talked about some of the content costs, some of the transformation costs. When do we see those margins start to stabilize? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Great. Simon, we are still committed to the $21 billion range for 2014, which is the guidance we have been giving, so that gives us some room, possibly $21.5 billion down to $20.5 billion, somewhere in that, so that's what I would suggest as a range.

But yes, we're still committed to that. Yes, we expect that to be a further step down in capital spending in the fourth quarter; that was planned. If people are wondering how that might be accomplished, I will tell you that if you look at what the network team has accomplished with regard to getting 300 million POPs with LTE coverage, we are getting 600 million business locations passed with fiber, getting 57 million customer locations passed with IP broadband capabilities, we are ahead of the game, so to speak, in what we laid out and so there is a real opportunity to manage capital that way and still continue to meet our targets.

It's a benefit of being ahead of the game on some of the build.

With regard to 2015, I won't give any additional guidance. I will specifically -- give any additional guidance. We will give that in January and update our guidance like we normally do.

I will suggest to you this, though. We still expect tax extenders to get past in the post-election session of Congress and those to get signed. If that doesn't get signed, I would suggest to you that companies, all companies, will have to take into account that change in their ability to invest, because it's a financial change in their balance sheet and their cash flow statements. That would be -- for us, it would definitely be taken into account in what we decide on our investments next year.

But quite frankly, I think many companies, it would have an immediate impact if it's not passed on their March or their first-quarter tax return payments for this year, and that might add a little more immediate impact on capital spending by other parties. My point here is that I think tax reform, specifically tax extenders, needs to be completed.

With regard to wireline margins, two pieces to that story. There certainly is the content piece and we have got a strategic resolution or opportunity to make improvements on that. But secondly on our transformation piece, as you heard in our presentation, 75% of our DSL customers have converted to high-speed broadband products and we have converted a significant number of feature phones to smartphones.

All of this conversion going on. In the wireline space, that conversion has had a lot of costs. Those costs are getting behind us now. When you have 75% of the base on high speed, you have incurred those costs, so that gives us an opportunity to improve margins going forward.

I will tell you there is a second transformation going on and that's how we serve our customers, how we take orders, how we provision -- how we validate those orders, how we provision them, how we activate service. We're actively working on mechanizing that ordering process, mechanizing that validation, that provisioning planning process.

Those -- that work is not yet completed. We have made a lot of great traction, but that work will certainly continue on into next year, and once we have that complete, those two pieces of our transition costs will be behind us and that will give us the opportunity to really grow margins. That's what we are looking forward to.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just a follow-up here. You talk about an expectation that your Next take rate is likely to increase into the fourth quarter, after stabilizing in 3Q. I just want to clarify. Is that because you are putting more emphasis on that in the channel or are you seeing something else that is driving it?

Then just in terms of other margin drivers into the fourth quarter, can you give us some thoughts on where you think we're going to see the upgrade rate come out?

JOHN STEPHENS: Brett, let me give you the simplest answer I can with regard to the Next rate improving. Our stores in September had some shortages on inventory where customers went -- our customers went and bought inventory from other channels.

Our stores, our Company-owned stores, had the highest performance of Next take rate, so now that those inventory constraints we are expecting to get behind us. They're not quite there yet, but we expect them to get behind us, we will get back to a more normal sharing of that. That's the first reason.

The second reason is as we rolled out the Next program in the manufacturer stores and in the national retailer stores, there is a learning curve, and we are going through that, and as we go through the learning curve, the Next take rate for those operations has been improving.

Those are the two reasons why we think that the overall take rate can improve.

Any time you have a launch of a new device in a month, it challenges a lot of pieces of your operations. In this case, it challenged our Next take rates.

With regard to margins activities, we're going to have all the -- we continue to have the focus on expense management and (technical difficulty) across the enterprise. But I think you probably know that.

With regard to percentages on upgrade rates, we are not going to give any guidance on that and I wouldn't suggest there would be any differences one way or the other than you would have in a fourth-quarter holiday season with a new product launch out there.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I guess a couple of housekeeping things. One, can you reiterate or not the $11 billion in free cash flow and your EPS guidance that you'd given earlier in the year?

And then, second, just following up on Brett's question on the Next mix, given the -- what I think is a tougher credit requirement and the limits on distribution, how big of a mix on gross adds could this be, do you think? Is there an upper limit around 75 or 80 that this doesn't go above? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So let me say this. We are not changing guidance with regard to EPS or free cash flow. We're still in that $11 billion range. We're still at I think what I've said before is the low end of the mid single-digit EPS range.

The only caveat I will give to that is if we continue to have quarters where we can add 2 million customers, we're not going to turn down the opportunity to add 2 million postpaid customers or the kind of wireline growth we've had in our strategic services. We are not going to turn that down just to make a goal that the finance guys may have set. We are going to do what's right for the business, but sticking by what we've said before.

With regard to the Next take rates, I think you hit on the right point in the sense of there is always going to be a credit scoring impact on the availability or the qualification of all customers, so there will always be some customers who would be better suited for one of our other arrangements or one of our other products. We welcome them. We would love to have them, but we are not likely to go with the Next program for them.

Secondly, and I think as importantly, is customers just want to have choice, and so we will look to make sure that they have a choice. If they don't want to use the Next program, that's fine. We will have another opportunity for them.

With that being said, we certainly expect that with this Mobile Share Value pricing going to two-thirds of our base by the end of the year that there is a significant step-up in the number of Next customers compared to what we have today. Whether that all occurs in the fourth quarter or some of it occurs in 2015, we will have to wait and see, but either way, it's still a good long-term investment for us and we believe a good long-term situation for our customers.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Thank you for taking the question. John, I just wanted to explore the SMB. You realized some significant bucking of what I would think would be a different trend, just because all our checks show that the cable guys have been nothing short of aggressive. Can you talk a little bit of what you are seeing or what you're doing differently there to -- or is it just macro? Are you leading on wireless, et cetera?

JOHN STEPHENS: All of the above, Jennifer. I am glad to take the call. A couple things, one, we are putting a lot of fiber out there and our fiber, whether -- when you think about U-verse fiber and that U-verse fiber, what many people think is consumer, it also can be available for business, but also the fiber that is passing those business locations.

We are finding that fiber is enabling us to really go in and not only reinforce our customer position with existing customers, but be very competitive in offering services to new customers.

Secondly, our strategic services piece in the small business is growing healthfully. It is not a big base as of today, but it is growing well, and the customers seem to like those services and are willing to take them. So the investments we have made in VIP are starting to pay off.

Lastly, you hit the nail on the head and this is what we have done on an organizational perspective. It works for small business, as well as large business, but the ability to be agnostic with regard to the services of whether it's wired or wireless, or, more importantly, the ability to combine wired and wireless services for your customers through one organization, has proven to be really powerful, even in small business.

That's how we think we are bucking the trend of no business starts, but we have got a long way to go and we need to keep -- the team's performing well, but we need to keep it up and keep it moving forward. We are not making any declarations now, but we do have a better feel for the situation than we did a few quarters ago.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I appreciate letting me ask some questions. So the first question would be on the enterprise side. Your biggest competitor talked about what sounded like were some structural things going on in the industry on private line pricing, core connectivity pricing, and it doesn't seem to have been an issue for you guys in the quarter. So I was wondering if you guys could give us a sense as to your comfort level on the enterprise positive trajectory.

Then the second was obviously the payoff from the forward pricing initiative has been the lower churn that you have been posting up. Are you comfortable letting people look at kind of a 10 to 15 basis point year-over-year churn improvement be the new run rate baseline expectation on a go-forward basis? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, David. A couple of things. One, I got to tell you the performance enterprise has to do with our people. It has to do with our enterprise sales team, both on the wired and the wireless side, and the performance of our network provides our largest customers.

I had the opportunity to meet with 10 of our largest customers a few weeks ago in New York and I can tell you that they are satisfied with the kind of service, the quality, the security offerings, those strategic services. So we are hard at work to continue the good progress we have made and not lose sight of it. It is a tough environment, but we are working very hard to continue it.

Our advantage is our wired network and capabilities, as well as the ability to combine it with wireless.

On the payoff in lower churn, we have certainly seen that payoff in lower churn. We are not ready to establish a standard for that. We need to get through a full year of this process before we even start formulating those numbers. But, if you will, two quarters in a row of best-ever churn and year-to-date best-ever churn, and those churn numbers on the postpaid side all below all the two-digit range, is very encouraging. But we are going to be careful to continue to work hard and move this Company forward.

It's a long process of transformation that we're going through and we are nearing completion, but we want to make sure we finish it very strong. So I will leave off any predictions on rates.

DAVID BARDEN: Okay, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Seems to be some interesting buzz among the supplier community around the supplier Domain 2.0 initiative. Wanted to see if there was any updates from you folks on this front in terms of developments.

And also, timing to some of your earlier commentary on CapEx trajectory. In other words, what you have seen so far, does that solidify some of your thoughts on the ability to drive down CapEx intensity in terms of your expenditures in some of the out years, John?

JOHN STEPHENS: Continue to be optimistic on our software-directed networks. Our Network On Demand trial in Austin just this last few months has proved positive. We are excited about the opportunity to get a launch in Austin of a product on an Ethernet basis that is what we call our Network On Demand.

So those things are real. They take time to implement and to do right and the team is striving to do it right, but we remain optimistic.

With regard to the software-directed networks and the ability to use that to manage and harness in our capital costs, continue to remain positive. We take that into account in our spending projections and our estimates.

I would suggest to you, though, it is not a short road, but a long road, when you have a company that has $100 billion of net property, plant, and equipment that you are managing. And networks that have a significant history to them, it's going to take some time, but we remain positive and optimistic. Yes, we are receiving savings or achieving value from those software-directed networks and we hope to increase those amounts over time.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great, thank you very much for the additional color.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, New Street Research.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, NEW STREET RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the question. John, two quick ones, if I may. So the bring your own device trend seems very positive. I'm just wondering, how do you deal with bring your own device customers coming over from CDMA? Do you give them a new handset or are all those coming from just T-Mobile?

Then, secondly, I didn't quite understand your comment on the impact of bring your own device customers on the Next take rate. I would have assumed all of those customers would take Next -- would take the Next pricing. That would be what would be most attractive to them. If that's not the case, then I'm not sure why it would have impacted your revenue growth for the year. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Okay, so quickly speaking on the BYOD device, these devices are coming not only from competitors who operate similar networks or whose devices will operate on our networks, which may be more than one competitor whose devices may actually work on our networks, but they also come from devices that previously went into the drawer and were left at home, and these were handed down either to family or friends, neighbors, whatever the case may be.

People may buy them over eBay and bring them in and have already paid for them. So they come from a variety of sources. They could be reusing devices that had previously flown through our networks. That's the first case.

The second case is if those phones would have been sold by us, we would have had -- depending upon what the device costs, a $500 cost -- $500 of revenue and $500 of cost. It wouldn't have provided any margin and it wouldn't have provided any contribution, but it would have provided revenue.

So we still are getting our customer adds and we are getting efficiency with the reuse of devices; we're just not getting any revenue out of them and that is, quite frankly, a big piece when we are talking about over 1 million devices so far and choose your number on how much revenue we would have gotten out of each one those devices. You can understand the impact it could have even on a company of our size's revenue.

That is the point there. We would have assumed that those kinds of devices, people would have come in and gotten Next.

Secondly, I will tell you -- make a distinction here. These BYOD devices are getting the Mobile Share Value plans and, generally speaking, they are getting the lower-priced service because they are bringing their device. They are just not getting Next because they don't have to pay for a phone.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Got it. Okay, thanks, John. I appreciate it.

MICHAEL VIOLA: Tony, this will be our last question.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. Two, if I could. First, as we think about your move to consumption-based pricing and we also think about some of the changes in the sizes of the buckets for data, can you give us a sense of what's happening as you increase the data buckets, you try to encourage customers to spend more on data? Are you getting more in data revenue relative to those that might have started at a higher plan and can use the same amount, but moved to a cheaper bucket?

Then the second question is if you just had an update on the regulatory process with the DIRECTV deal. I think the FCC put out an update on their clock today, and I am just curious if you could talk about the implications of that and any update from your perspective. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure. On the data buckets, I would refer you back to the slide that we showed with regard to data billings, in that they were up about, I think, 24% year over year.

So what we're seeing in this opportunity is this. People are buying up, particularly with the Mobile Share Value plan, they're required to get the 10-meg bucket so -- or the 10-gig bucket, excuse me, but they are buying up anyway.

Then it does have some impact, in some cases, on average rates and so forth, but, quite frankly, a better customer experience comes out of having these bigger buckets, also.

Additionally, and probably as important as anything, when they buy those bigger buckets, they are adding things. They're going to add tablets. They're going to add wearables. They're going to add other devices, soon to be adding Connected Cars, and so -- they add other family phones or other members of the family's tablets. What you see is they buy up these buckets and then they start using them and getting more functionality, and then they are more tied to us.

If you look at our Mobile Share Value accounts, I think we have about 16.5 million, almost 17 million, and we have about 47 million or 48 million devices or connections on them. So these bigger buckets, that's what's happening. It is helping us get pretty sticky with our customers, and that's how we feel.

The data billings increase of almost -- of over 20% is clearly what we'd point to to say what's going on with the data side.

With regard to the DIRECTV, the FCC did make a decision today to stop the clock. That decision has nothing to do with the merits of our deal or any of the information that we have provided. The FCC's order made it clear that there was concern about the confidentiality of the information that some content companies provide the FCC and they're trying to deal with those issues.

We are confident in the FCC's rigorous procedures for keeping the information confidential and we are ready to provide them with information they have requested from us. While the FCC stopping the clock on merger reviews is fairly common, today's decision doesn't change our view that we will be able to get the deal approved and closed by the first half -- in the first half of 2015.

That's the color I would give you around that. We're still optimistic about a transaction. The stopping of the clock is not an uncommon or rare experience, and it has something to do with other issues than the benefits of our deal or the merits of our deal. So we will continue to support the process and look forward to getting the transaction closed within that originally announced one-year kind of timeframe.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Before we close, I want to thank all of you for being with us this afternoon. As you can tell, we have continued to make significant progress in transforming our business, not only in the third quarter but all year long.

That not only includes repositioning our postpaid base off the subsidy model, but we also did that while having strong net adds, strong postpaid gains, and record levels of churn. We also had a strong performance in wireline, with continued strong performance in U-verse and strategic business services and our ability to combine our wired and wireless services for our customers' benefit.

We look to continue that solid momentum into the fourth quarter and finish the year strong.

Once again, thank you for being on the call. As always, we thank you for your interest in AT&T and have a great evening. Take care.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141024eaam007sl
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  AT & T  Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,749 words
   PD
23 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T second-quarter earnings release 2014. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to our first speaker, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Nick. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our second-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today. I am Susan Johnson, head of Investor Relations for AT&T.

Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility. John will cover our consolidated and wireline results and Ralph will give us an update on our wireless business, and then we will follow with a Q&A session.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. That's www.att.com\investor.relations.

Of course, I first need to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement before we begin, which says that some of our comments today may be forward-looking. As such, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Results may differ materially.

And additional information is available in our and DIRECTV's SEC filings and on the investor relations page of AT&T and DIRECTV's websites. I also wish to direct your attention to the information regarding SEC filings that is included on this slide.

Before I turn the call over to John, I would like to provide some additional context for the quarter on slide 4. We've talked with you the last few quarters about how we have been transforming our business for growth. This quarter, we saw significant progress, particularly with our repositioning of the wireless business model.

First, on the network front. Our Project VIP investment plan continues to deliver. We are transforming our network to a premier IP video-centric network and the results have been impressive. Our 4G LTE build now covers more than 290 million people and we expect to complete our deployment by the end of the summer.

And our fiber buildout to cover more businesses is going well. We have now passed more than 500,000 business customer locations since we first announced Project VIP.

At the same time we are investing in our network, we are investing in our customers by repositioning the wireless value proposition. Several years ago, we successfully led the transition to usage-based data pricing, and now more than 80% of our postpaid smartphone subscribers are on those plans.

Now we are making another successful pivot, away from the traditional device-subsidy model with AT&T and our Mobile Share Value plans. Customers can now pay directly for their devices in exchange for lower service pricing. That is an equation that really works for our customers, as you can see with this quarter's record subscriber metrics. And it's an equation that works for us, where there is an important strategic shift away from device subsidies, which have historically netted out to be a multibillion-dollar cost each year.

This move away from the subsidy model is happening quickly and bringing about many of the expected changes in our financial results, the shift in revenues from service to equipment and the moderation of quarterly margin trends as we achieve increased savings in device subsidies in the back half of the year, which, as you know, historically is our strongest device sales season.

But the key point is that we have made a deliberate decision to go down this path, and with the results we are seeing, we believe the strategy is clearly working. We see it in our results and we hear it from our customers.

With that, let me turn it over to John to discuss our second-quarter results. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Susan, and hello, everyone. Thanks for joining us today and, as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T.

Let me begin with our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 5. Consolidated revenue grew to $32.6 billion, up $500 million, or 1.6%. This was driven by continued wireless growth as we change our business model; solid consumer wireline growth, once again led by U-verse; and growth in strategic business services. Revenue this quarter was impacted by the shift to no-device-subsidy plans in wireless.

Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.68. As you know, during the quarter we sold our equity position in America Movil. After tax, we had a gain of about $0.08 on the sale. The gain was taxed at a higher effective tax rate, due to accounting for deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credits. While this accounting rules require this high tax rate, we are confident we will be able to utilize existing capital loss carryforwards to maximize the after-tax cash proceeds from the sale.

When you normalize for this item, our consolidated effective tax rate is about 34% or about 100 basis points higher than last year.

Also, we had $0.02 of pressure from our Leap integration costs, including our non-cash items, such as the amortization of customer lists. You may recall that we closed that transaction in March, so this is the first full quarter with these integration costs.

When you exclude these items, earnings per share was $0.62, compared to an adjusted $0.67 a year earlier.

Consolidated margins continue to be pressured by our investments, both in Project VIP and Agile, and our shift away from the subsidy model in wireless. These well-thought-out investments are expected to drive stronger growth in the second half of the year.

Cash from operations continues to be strong. Cash from operating activities in the quarter totaled $8.1 billion. Capital spending was $6 billion, with strong investments in Project VIP. Year to date, our free cash flow is more than $5 billion and that's after our more than $1.5 billion investment in our customers through AT&T Next.

Now let me turn to our operational highlights on slide 6. As you can see, we continue to execute at a high level, even as we transform our business. In wireless, the growing popularity of AT&T Next and the Mobile Share Value plan is having an impact on our results. The customer transition to these plans is driving a major shift in the subsidy model and, at the same time, helping to reduce churn, increase postpaid subscribers, drive strong growth of large buckets of data, and improve our Net Promoter Scores, or our customer satisfaction results.

I'll let Ralph give you the details in just a moment, but we are very pleased with what we are seeing from our wireless repositioning and confident in our strategy.

In wireline, U-verse continues its steady performance of subscriber gains and increasing revenue. It is now approaching $15 billion in annualized revenues, growing at about 25% year over year. Strategic business services also continues to grow, at more than 13%, and is an annualized $9 billion revenue stream. We also reached a milestone in the second quarter when our U-verse high-speed broadband reached 70% of our total broadband base; clearly, the transition is underway.

While we have made great progress, we still have a lot of room for growth, as we expand our base through Project VIP and continue to bundle broadband with other valuable services.

And of course, in the second quarter we announced our intention to acquire DIRECTV. This will take our video and bundling strategies and our cost structure to a whole new level. We're really excited about what this transaction can do. Service bundles are a proven winner for us and we believe the ability to bundle services nationally will be a big plus.

Overall, we're on track with full-year guidance and look forward for trends to improve in the second half of the year.

I would now like to turn it over to Ralph de la Vega, who will provide more insight on the strong wireless performance and the repositioning of the wireless business model. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT, CEO AT&T MOBILITY, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John, and good afternoon, everyone. It is great to be with you today. I will start on slide 7.

As John said, this was truly a remarkable quarter for our wireless business, with results coming in better than expected. We have been very successful in repositioning the business model and it is happening at breakneck speed.

The shift to the no-device-subsidy model is unmistakable. More and more customers are choosing the simplicity of Mobile Share Value plans and AT&T Next.

This model shift is driving impressive results. Postpaid churn was a record low 0.86%, the best ever for AT&T and likely an industry best this quarter. This customer loyalty helped drive our largest postpaid subscriber gain in nearly five years, more than 1 million postpaid net adds in the quarter, including very strong smartphone net adds.

The shift to Mobile Share Value and Next has been dramatic in transitioning our smartphone customer base. Half of our smartphone sales in the second quarter were on AT&T Next and nearly half of our smartphone subscriber base has moved to Mobile Share Value plans since we first introduced value plans in February.

Even better, when customers do switch to Mobile Share, they are moving to larger and larger data buckets. We now have more than 41 million connections across 15 million accounts on Mobile Share, with half on plans of 10 gigabytes or higher. And the number on larger data plan continues to grow.

As more and more customers move to usage-based data plans, data use is increasing. We are still seeing a nearly 50% year-over-year data usage increase on smartphones, and we continue to add more smartphones, connected devices, and tablets.

We're also starting to see the next wave of wireless growth. Digital Life is gaining momentum and had its best net gain quarter. Connected car growth is accelerating with new models entering the market, such as the Audi A3, as well as 10 GM models that will grow to 30 by the end of the year. These are in addition to those that are already in the market, such as Tesla, BMW, and others.

We feel these are incredibly good results in a time of transition. Let me give you more detail, starting with our strong postpaid net adds and churn on slide 8.

The move to Mobile Share Value plan has really solidified our customer base and this is critically important. Retaining our smartphone base is the basis for future growth. Postpaid churn was at an all-time low, and churn for Mobile Share and smartphone customers were even lower. That was even more remarkable in a noisy competitive environment.

This helped to drive more than 1 million postpaid net adds, with more than half of those being phone customers, a significant improvement from the past several quarters. Overall, we had more than 600,000 total net adds, and that includes prepaid declines due to the second-quarter seasonal pressure and continued migration of session-based outlets to postpaid.

We also saw expected second-quarter pressure from our Cricket integration. We expect this prepaid pressure will moderate in the third quarter, and, in fact, we have already seen our prepaid trends improving. Branded tablet net adds for the quarter were 250,000 and that includes 366,000 postpaid tablet net adds in the quarter.

We also saw pressure in reseller and connected devices as we transition off the old 2G network. All this drove total churn higher, even with our record low postpaid churn.

We continue to grow our smartphone base. Including migrations, we added nearly 1.6 million in the quarter. We had more than 700,000 smartphone net adds in the quarter, and more than 90% of our postpaid phone sales in the second quarter were smartphones.

Sales of LTE devices also continued at a strong clip, which is great for both us and our subscribers. LTE devices provide the best customer experience, while also being the most network efficient. Almost two-thirds of our postpaid smartphone base now have LTE phones.

You see the dramatic impact Mobile Share Value plans have on churn and postpaid net adds; now let me show you the impact on the subsidy model and revenues. Those details begin on slide 9.

Total wireless revenues for the quarter were up nearly 4%, as revenues continued to shift to equipment from service. Equipment revenue growth was strong in the quarter, up 45%, but as we expected, service revenues were impacted. We also saw revenue pressure from promotional activity early in the quarter and from a change in the recognition of revenue with the sales of phones through our agents, due to the AT&T Next offering. Together, these two items had about a 200 basis-point impact on total wireless growth.

We're also seeing significant increases in the number of customers who bring their own devices. This is a good thing for us as it takes all the subsidy expense out of our model and brings on a profitable customer.

We are continuing to see customers choosing Mobile Share Value plans in unprecedented numbers. In just five months, about 24 million smartphones, or about 44% of our postpaid smartphone base, have moved off the subsidy model. That includes about 2 million subscribers on unlimited data plans who chose to move to Mobile Share plans.

We now have less than 10 million subscribers on unlimited plans, our lowest level in years. At the same time, customers who are ready to upgrade are increasingly turning to AT&T Next. More than half of our smartphone sales in the quarter, or 3.1 million, were on Next. As you can see on the pie chart on the left of this slide, we have about 7 million AT&T customers who were Next customers at the end of the quarter, but the total number of subscribers on non-subsidy plans is about 24 million.

This gives us a large number of subscribers who will move to AT&T Next when they buy a new device. By the end of the year, we expect the percentage of Next sales to increase considerably as customers begin to upgrade their phones. And in fact, we are already seeing customers do this. Virtually all of our pre-Next customers are choosing AT&T Next when they upgrade in our Company-owned stores, and we expect sales to increase with our agents and in national retail, where we are just beginning to ramp up Next.

The change in the device subsidy model is driving a shift in our wireless revenue mix, but it is also driving higher value with improved churn and more sustainable margins.

I will turn it back to John, so he can give you those financial details on slide 10. John?

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Ralph.

Ralph talked about the great results we saw in wireless in the second quarter. Let me take just a minute to dive deeper into the financial and customer value impacts.

If you look at the overall customer value, the shift away from the subsidy model is very positive. Churn plays a big role in this. Take a look at the customer value illustration on the upper or left of the slide 10.

With a year-over-year 16 basis-point improvement in postpaid churn, the average life of each of our customers is extended by 18 months. With Mobile Share Value pricing, service ARPUs do drop on a comparable basis, but when you factor in the average life of a customer, lifetime service revenues actually increase.

In the example presented, they've increased $400 per customer. When you are AT&T with over 50 million phone customers, that's a real opportunity to generate great value.

So in short, the customer value increases with Next. And this doesn't even take into account the reduction in equipment subsidy. Going to AT&T Next also takes away most, if not all, of the net subsidy costs. That's why you can't just look at service ARPUs anymore to get a comprehensive view of our business.

Phone-only service ARPU is down for the quarter, but when you add in Next billings, you get a more accurate idea of what an average customer pays us each month. The average monthly Next billings for the equipment are about $27 per month, driving our phone-only ARPU higher with Next.

When this $27 per month is spread over the entire base, it adds about $2 in ARPU per customer in the quarter. As the Next base grows, so will this impact on ARPU. We have actually already seen this. Service ARPU with Next improved throughout the second quarter, and for June, it was more than $65, or almost $1 higher than the quarterly average, as equipment purchases increased throughout the quarter.

Another benefit of moving off the subsidy model is that the previous highs and lows of our margins become more stable. We have been in this business a long time and we have seen two big drivers of sales and upgrades -- that's the holiday season and the introduction of new devices. In the past, we used to have mixed feelings about those events. It was great for sales, but that subsidy cost pressured margins and financial results.

Now, with about half of our smartphone subscribers already on non-subsidy plans, and that number going up every day, we're feeling really pretty good about the position we're in. If you look at expectations for the rest of the year, we anticipate service margins to be more than 40%, while postpaid phone-only ARPU with Next billings will continue to increase as more customers upgrade their phones.

Our wireless repositioning story is definitely a work in progress, but it is definitely working. The benefits are clear -- lower overall churn, higher postpaid net adds, customers buying larger buckets of data, and a shift away from the unlimited plans. Best of all, customers like it. They like the clear and simple pricing, and we feel really good about where we are and we are excited and look forward to the second half of the year.

Those are our wireless highlights. I would now like to discuss our wireline business, starting with consumer on slide 11.

U-verse has been a solid and consistent story for us. We continue to see solid subscriber and revenue growth. This helped drive 3% revenue growth in consumer. Total U-verse revenues are now approaching a $15 billion annualized revenue stream and they're growing at about 25% year over year. U-verse now represent 62% of consumer revenues.

We have 11.5 million broadband customers, after adding almost 500,000 in the quarter. That's more than 70% of our total broadband base. That compares to just 40% two years ago.

We also added 190,000 TV subscribers in the quarter, which gives us 5.9 million total U-verse TV customers.

A big factor in the success of U-verse is our ability to bundle. More than 97%, or virtually all, of our video customers have some kind of bundle with us. And two-thirds of our U-verse TV subscribers take three or four services with us. ARPU for U-verse triple-play customers continues to be more than $170 a month. That helps drive revenue growth, while reducing churn. In fact, triple-play bundled customers have significantly lower churn than standalone customers.

We see a continued opportunity here. Our market penetration stands around 20% for U-verse broadband and TV, but that penetration increases the longer we are in a market. Plus, as Project VIP expands our customer reach, we believe we can achieve much more.

We also continue to deploy GigaPower as part of our Project VIP build. Sales of our ultrafast broadband service have exceeded expectations in Austin and we have announced our intention to deploy in Dallas and North Carolina.

Now let me take you to our business wireline results on slide 12. Wireline business continues to be a story of the economy and the shift to IP data and away from legacy services. Strategic business services, services such as VPN, Ethernet, hosting, and other advanced IP services, grew by more than 13% in the quarter and more than 14% year to date and now represent a more than $9 billion annualized revenue stream.

They now make up more than 27% of business wireline revenue, and for the first time, strategic business service revenues are now more than half of our total wireline business data revenues. Overall wireline business revenues were down 2.9%. Service revenues were down a little more than 2% in the second quarter, but that's on track with recent trends and the slow economy.

When you look at each of the business components that make up our wireline business, you will see some different stories and some different trends. Enterprise service revenues were actually up about 1% year over year, and this was its fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth rate improvement, and our enterprise channel continues to provide significant sales opportunities for our wireless services.

Wholesale again was challenged by network grooming of some of our wireless customers, and we also saw the impact of our acquisition of Leap this quarter, as those previous external wholesale revenues now are internal to AT&T. And while small business is benefiting from wireless bundles and continued U-verse broadband growth, the lack of new business formations is still impacting the business opportunity.

Now let's look at our margin story on slide 13. You can see the margin impacts from changes in the wireless subsidy model and Project VIP on our margins. In the second quarter, when adjusting for Leap integration expense, wireless EBITDA service margin was up slightly, to 42.6%. That's a strong performance, especially when you consider our very strong postpaid and smartphone net adds in the quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA was $6.5 billion, stable year over year, but total EBITDA margin was down, due to the impact of the 24 million smartphones moving to Mobile Share Value pricing, some promotional activity we had in the first half of the year, and new business investments in things like Cricket and Digital Life.

For the quarter, our adjusted consolidated margin was 17.7%, compared to 19.1% in the year-ago quarter. As Ralph said, the shift to Mobile Share plans ahead of equipment purchases pressured our results. Wireline margins were down from a year ago, but essentially flat with first-quarter levels. The decline in revenue from legacy services was part of the impact, but at the same time, success-based video content cost, retransmission price increases, and expenses from Project Agile and VIP also caused pressure.

For example, overall content cost increases were more than double the total increase of wireline operating expenses for the entire quarter.

But this wireline pressure was partially offset by growth in consumer revenues, gains in strategic business services, and solid execution of cost initiatives. We expect Project Agile and our move to software-defined networks to provide margin help. Project Agile will drive efficiency and speed to market as we transform how the Company organizes and operates, all around our customers.

As we've said before, we are reinvesting savings at this point, but we see real opportunity to reduce costs through this effort. We expect run rate savings in the $3 billion range by 2017.

Now let's move to cash flow. Our summary is on slide 14. In the first half of the year, cash from operations totaled nearly $17 billion and about $8.1 billion in the second quarter. Capital expenditures were up, $11.8 billion for the six months and $6 billion for the quarter. Free cash flow before dividends was $5.1 billion year to date, on track with full-year guidance, even with investments in Project VIP and our wireless customer base.

We did monetize $800 million of our Next receivables in the quarter and there continues to be great interest in additional sales, but even after that, our net investment in customers increased by more than $1.5 billion during the year. So we expect to meet our free cash flow guidance, even with the substantial working capital invested in AT&T Next customers.

And net debt to adjusted EBITDA was at 1.71, as we maintain the best credit rating of any major US telecom company.

In terms of cash, I think you know the story. Dividend payments remain our first priority and year to date totaled $4.8 billion, and we continue to be opportunistic with our share buyback program.

Our assets sales, including America Movil, also strengthened our cash position and balance sheet. We ended the quarter with more than $11 billion of cash. About $4.6 billion of that has already been used for debt redemption, leaving more than $6 billion of cash on hand at the current time.

We have the balance-sheet flexibility to pay down more debt and position ourselves for the upcoming spectrum auctions and the DIRECTV acquisition, while investing in the growth of our business. In fact, I believe we are continuing to maximize our balance-sheet efficiency. We expect another $3 billion of asset monetizations by the end of the year, with the sale of our Connecticut wireline property and the remaining proceeds from our America Movil sale.

The DIRECTV transaction continues to move forward. Brazil's antitrust regulator has approved it without restrictions and we have completed the review process at the state level without conditions, which included Arizona, Louisiana, and Hawaii.

We also received good news today when the Department of Labor's approval notice, allowing us to fund our pension plans with a preferred equity interest at AT&T Mobility, was posted in the Federal Register website.

Now let me close with a quick summary and a recap of our full-year 2014 expectations. There continues to be a lot of moving parts in this quarter and throughout the remainder of the year, but we are confident we are heading in the right direction. We staked out our course and our plan for the year and we are confident that we are on the right track.

First, we expect consolidated revenue growth at the low end of the 5% range. To define that, let's say that we will say that the range -- we define that range as 4.5% to 5.5% and expect the numbers of AT&T Next upgrades to ramp substantially in the second half of the year, powering that growth.

Second, we see stable consolidated margins as we begin to realize greater benefits as more customers shift away from the subsidy model in the back half of the year.

We continue to expect adjusted EPS in the low end of the mid single-digit range, even with the pressure from Leap integration costs and loss of the America Movil equity income. We are still targeting capital spending in the $21 billion range, even as we accelerated investment in the first half of the year. And we expect free cash flow in the $11 billion range, even with strong AT&T Next sales.

I now will turn it back to Susan to take your questions.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you, John. Nick, I am going to turn the call back to you for instructions for our Q&A session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Maybe just a comment on the churn side. Obviously, you're getting a benefit, probably somewhat due to lower pricing points. How do we get more comfort that this is going to be a longer-term benefit?

And then, just secondarily on the Leap side, how many of those customers, if any, were able to migrate onto the postpaid platform? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Ralph, do you want to take the questions?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, let me comment a little bit on that. Mike, when John was going over the chart, he was explaining just the extension that we see in the customer lifetime value when you take our overall churn going from 1.02% to [0.86%] (corrected by company after the call).

The thing that is really encouraging to me is that that is the total average for postpaid. When you look at smartphones, you see a similar change, and what is driving the overall churn down are smartphones. And then when you look at smartphones on Mobile Share Value plans and Next, they are even lower. So, what we are doing is working.

I will give you one proofpoint that was really encouraging to me in the second quarter. In the second quarter, typically churn for our Company goes up in May and June, compared to April. What we saw in this quarter was a change in the trend, so both May and June were actually lower in churn than April, despite all the competitive activity that is going on. So we feel very certain that as more and more customers sign up to Mobile Share Value plans and Next, it solidifies our scores in terms of churn.

And we are seeing the same thing in our Net Promoter Scores. Our Net Promoter Scores for customers who are Mobile Share Value plans, compared to FamilyTalk, for example, are twice the number.

So, every indication we have from our customers is that these are sustainable and sustainable even during some pretty intense competitive activities, as we always see in the wireless business.

Now you were asking about Cricket. Let me give you a quick update on Cricket. As you know, we actually launched Cricket on a nationwide basis, the new Cricket, on May 19. So that was relatively short, but I'm very pleased with what happened. We successfully converted both the Aio brand and the old Cricket brand to the new Cricket brand. We rebranded the stores and we started converting customers at rates that we expected from the old CDMA network that Leap had to our GSM network. And Mike, the results are really, really encouraging.

As you know, that network covers 97% of the customers. It doesn't include roaming. But what we are seeing is Net Promoter Scores, again, of Cricket customers improving month after month as they get to sample the GSM network compared to their old CDMA network. And so, the migrations are on schedule and we are seeing improving trends in terms of the net additions since we completed the conversion.

In fact, if you look at the second-quarter Cricket numbers compared to a year ago, we have reduced the defections by one-third just in the first quarter alone, and what we are seeing in July is an improving trend that I am sure will continue throughout the year. Again, as customers sample this great network that they have now that is a nationwide network, as we move those customers over, we are seeing lower churn.

So, we feel really good about what we did with Cricket, and we're really excited about the results we are seeing with Mobile Share Value plans and Next in driving lower churn.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Ralph, I'm sorry, just for clarification on the Leap migration, did you get any benefit on the postpaid side from customers from Leap?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: No, not any significant improvement. No, Mike, there was no significant movement from prepaid to postpaid in our case.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, that's helpful. Thanks, Ralph.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Maybe first just a follow-up to Mike's question for Ralph, and another one for John. Ralph, is there any -- I liked where you were going with the churn. But is there any risk that churn could start to move up within the Next base once maybe the pre-Next people that you have moved over that are eligible for handset and are probably looking at -- eyeing the new iPhone later this year -- start to see the build -- they have already seen the build go down, start to see it go back up again, and maybe talk about your experience there.

And then maybe for John, in your prepared remarks at the beginning of the call, you talked about some stronger growth and stronger trends in the second half. Is it just equipment driven or could you give us a little bit more detail on what some of those trends are, and are we to the point where we have an eye towards when we will start to see service revenue trends start to turn? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, on your comment about what happens as people upgrade to Next, as we mentioned in my comments, we are already seeing about half of our smartphone sales go on Next and that's the same experience that you were referring to.

And those customers, when we sample them, their Net Promoter Scores are high, so we are not seeing any concerns at this point and I think that once they get on Next, they are going to be able to get the new smartphone every year or every 18 months, depending on the plans that they select. So, we feel really good so far about everything we have seen from the plans. No major concerns.

JOHN STEPHENS: And John, specifically the customers that we allowed to go up on the Mobile Share Value plans early and that have subsequently come in, we have seen great stay-on rates, over 90% of the Company-owned stores, where they've stayed on the Next program.

So they like it. They really seem to be very sticky with it, so we feel good about where it's going, but we're going to watch it closely.

JOHN HODULIK: Got you.

JOHN STEPHENS: With regard to the stronger churns, there is a couple of things that are just really important. One, when you add 1 million customers in a quarter and we added -- total change was 1.6 million smartphones. That was a conversion of about 900,000 feature phones to smartphones, and then there was net adds -- postpaid smartphone net adds of 700,000. So those were really significant numbers.

We had another good quarter of tablets, about 350,000, but we really had great performance on our smartphone net adds, so that gives us confidence in generating more revenue.

Additionally, we are seeing people take insurance almost at a 50% clip on our Next sales. So that's going to help, and we continue to find satisfaction. Those insurance rates are anywhere from $7 to $10 a month. We see really good results with that.

Third, we are seeing people buy bigger buckets, as we mentioned. I think we mentioned -- Ralph mentioned that there was 14 million or so Mobile Share Value accounts. Over half or about half of those are taking 10 gig or better, and with the new phones coming out, people are using more data. We continue to see usage growth, which is going to drive revenue growth.

All of those things are what give us confidence in what we see and why we believe there is going to be real opportunity for improving revenue trends.

But lastly, very much so we think the Next take rate, and especially with the opportunity for maybe some new devices in the holiday season, will also generate some improvement in our numbers.

So, feel really good about the whole package, not just the equipment story.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, one other thing that I think we both feel good about is if you look at those larger data buckets, we mentioned that about half of our base is on buckets that are 10 gigs or higher. But if you look at actually as customers add lines to their Mobile Share Value plans, we are seeing that number that are selecting the 10 gig or higher plan be 70%.

So we got about half the base, but on the ones that are getting added, the take rates are even significantly higher. So it gives us great encouragement that as you look at Mobile Share and Next, number one, it's producing lower churn and number of customer lifetimes. Number two, it is actually reducing our subsidies, and number three, it's resulting in these large data bucket purchases that we know will increase ARPU, as we define it now to be phone-only ARPU plus Next billings. Those are expected to increase for the remainder of the year.

So we feel really good the strategy is working and it is having its intended results.

JOHN STEPHENS: John, let me go ahead and add one other thing that I make clear that you got out of the presentation. There was about a 200 basis-point pressure in the wireless revenue growth this quarter, and it has to do with we are now selling our Next program through our agent. And so instead of recognizing the revenue when we deliver to the agent, we recognize the revenue when they deliver to the customer, and so that delayed and had an impact on revenue this quarter.

By the end of the year, we think we will get that back, especially in the holiday season when inventories are traditionally low.

In addition, we had some -- early on in the quarter, we had some pressure from some promotional activities. As you know, we really haven't run any significant promotional activities since the April timeframe. So we think we've got most of that pressure behind us.

When you put those two things together, we have a better starting point than we may appear, based on our -- on the appropriately reported results.

JOHN HODULIK: Got it. Okay, thanks for all the detail, guys.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. Ralph, can you give us a sense for the exit rate for churn at the end of the quarter?

And then, John, you just mentioned the promotional activity. Do you have an idea of how much of the sub growth was actually driven by the promotional activity we saw early on in the quarter?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: First, on the churn in the quarter, as I mentioned earlier, what is really encouraging is that we saw both May and June be lower than our postpaid churn in April, and usually it's the reverse.

So it says that the plans that we have put in place are bending the curve in the right direction, trending to lower churn in the back half of the quarter, as opposed to being higher, which is traditionally what we have seen in mobility. So, it is very encouraging and we are seeing very good churn levels at this point. So, I don't see anything that will drive it in a different direction.

JOHN STEPHENS: This is John. We both -- and the whole operation -- we remain very optimistic about churn continuing to improve on a year-over-year basis, compared to the historical levels, so we feel really good about that.

With regard to the net adds we had, we really haven't had any significant promotional programs in effect in May or June. We had some in March and some of the cost of those were appropriately accounted for when the customers earned those discounts, or actually in April. So, we really didn't see much in the way of significant customer change with regard to that. We may have seen some of that benefit in March, but I will tell you it seems like in the [noisy] environment, we have a lot of our competitors who are very active in that, and quite frankly, we were not. We were not as active as others.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: By the way, Joe, one other point of reference, the 0.86% churn number, as far as I know, if you go back and look at the history of wireless, is the second lowest churn ever reported by a company in the history of wireless, and the one that was lower than that was only 2 basis points lower two years ago.

So, not only is it the lowest for AT&T, but some of the lowest churns ever reported by any company in wireless.

JOHN STEPHENS: Obviously, Joe, we feel real good about where we are at and how we are performing. The team is doing a great job.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI: Okay, guys, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, on capital spending, you reiterated the $21 billion. That implies about a 20% drop, second half versus first half, and I know there has been a lot of talk in the market around CapEx freezes and so forth. So perhaps you could just provide a little clarity about how you are going to get there and what impact that has on wireless or wireline.

And then, for Ralph, I think in the June release, you said about one-half of customers would be on no-device plans by midyear and about two-thirds by the end of the year, and I think you hit 44%. So as we go into Q3 and Q4, are you still targeting that two-thirds number or are we coming in a little bit lower than that? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Let me answer the last one first, Simon, and yes, that's exactly what we are targeting.

What we have seen, Simon, is, first of all, we started with our Company-owned retail stores and it was a huge smash hit. Then we brought in our dealers, and they have been a huge smash hit, almost exactly the same performance that we saw in our Company-owned retails, which are much higher than the averages that we are reporting.

Now we are bringing national retails. These are national retail agents that have not sold Next up to this point who will be coming online, and so we expect those to come online in the third and fourth quarters, further increasing the rate. So, we're fairly confident that you're going to see an increase from the rates that we reported in the second quarter.

JOHN STEPHENS: Simon, with regard to the CapEx story, yes, we did reiterate that we are going to be in the $21 billion range, and we're going to stay with that.

With regard to the commentary on the overload of that $1 billion spend in the first six months, I guess I am well aware of the commentary and the talk that many people have had that we had changed our spending patterns, but based on those numbers, it would seem that some people were misinformed. It may have been more about the spread or the sharing amongst our spend.

If you are thinking about how we're going to get down to the $21 billion range, I would suggest this, we are very near complete with our $300 million LTE build, and in fact, we expect to complete that later this summer. So most of the spending for that and much of the spending for the network densification has been already placed. We just need to go out and utilize and put those assets into service, which we are apt to do.

Secondly, we have done a lot of other of our systems and other corporate work with regard to laying out fiber and other things that we expect will moderate in the second half of the year and focus more on the utilization of assets that we placed in service. So, certainly, it will be a challenge, going to be a lot of work, but feel good about the fact that we can stay in that $21 billion range.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Earlier this quarter, you folks mentioned that you have been able to secure some financing for your handset receivables, which I believe Randall had alluded to as an opportunity during your most recent analyst event. Now that we've seen a couple of quarters of the Next program, do you see further opportunities to finance some of these receivables?

And then, secondly, there has also been a lot of chatter around the possibility of extending bonus depreciation. I know, John, this is an area that you spent a decent amount of time looking at. Would love to hear your thoughts around where you think legislation is and where it ultimately shakes out, and the potential opportunity here with respect to your cash flow positioning.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sounds great, Amir, let me try to handle it.

First of all, Citi was our lead bank in the Next monetization transaction that we completed in June. We received about $800 million in cash from the monetization of some of our Next accounts receivables.

With that being said, we still had a net investment in our customers of $1.5 billion -- more than $1.5 billion, actually, from January 1 through June 30. What we learned from that is it wasn't just Citi, but it was a number of other banks stepped up and were very interested in joining in the consortium to buy those receivables. There was plenty of demand. The financing costs were extremely low, very, very attractive, and the terms and conditions were very attractive. So, we went ahead and did it.

We're also very pleased with the fact that the collection of major banks established the real validity and the real value of those receivables, and we believe there continues to be great demand. In fact, all the participants in that have come back to us and said -- and asked us.

So we will look at further opportunities, and we believe that's one of the reasons why I feel comfortable about our cash flow guidance for the year, in the sense that we have one of those levers is the monetization process, so that gives us great comfort.

Second piece is we're optimistic on bonus depreciation getting at least extended. There has been a number of bills out there, some to make it permanent, others to extend it. There seems to be a general sense that the extenders will get completed and approved, but maybe not until later this year. That would be a very good thing for a capital-intensive industry like us and help us continue to make significant investments in our network.

The biggest cash impact for us would be in 2015. It would certainly help 2014, but the biggest cash impact for us would be in 2015 because of some of the nuances of the tax rules. And we are -- we file carefully and we are looking for every opportunity to promote that legislation.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. Just a couple of follow-ups, if I could, please. I think last quarter you mentioned what the installment net receivables were at the end of the quarter. I was wondering if you can give us an update there.

And then, secondly, if I can just go back to the churn improvement that you saw during the quarter, how should we think about who specifically the improvement came from? In other words, did it come from customers that were out of contract and were able to churn, but took advantage of the no-subsidy Mobile Share Value? Was it customers earlier in their life that may have churned prematurely where you were able to capture a benefit from? Is there a way to think about the segments of customers where you saw that churn savings? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: I think the -- Mike, a couple things. One, I think the biggest churn improvements we saw were, quite frankly, in smartphones, in the overall category of smartphones, where the smartphone churn is lower than that 0.86 postpaid churn we saw.

Secondly, the customers who participated in our Mobile Share Value plan, their churn is also lower than the 0.86%.

So as those plans grow and as our smartphone -- 80% smartphone base continues to go to our flow share of 92%, you can understand why we are optimistic about further churn improvement and the opportunity to continue this good run we're having.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, let me add a little more color to that. Like John said, when you compare the 1.02 churn to the 0.86, that extends the life of a customer by a year and half.

If you do the same analysis, not on the total base, but on smartphones, that life extension goes to 2-1/2 years. The churn difference is actually greater if you compare smartphones on the same basis. So, you extend the life of a customer by 2-1/2 years, and then if you take smartphones who have Mobile Share Value and Next, you extend it even further than that.

These results are early on, but are really encouraging, and it basically says that customers who choose Mobile Share Value and Next on smartphones are driving this thing down to really low levels.

And by the way, the numbers that we are quoting on churn are, of course, total churn. There is some involuntary churn, so the voluntary churn numbers are actually even lower than the ones that we have just published.

JOHN STEPHENS: Michael, as you said on the installment sales, I will tell you it's a mixed bag of numbers, so I don't want to -- I want to make sure I don't direct you to some -- one specific line on the financial statements.

But if you look at our accounts receivable and then you add in our long-term assets that relate to Next, because some of the receivables are over 12 months, and then you look at the deferred purchase price from the Citi organization, you get a sense that we are in the area of $3.2 billion of total receivables, and that is after taking into account of reducing it for the monetization we did.

We will disclose this information in our 10-Q, so I will give you that back to say we will make sure we, as we have in the first-quarter Q, disclose that.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I guess two quick ones. First, the buyback pace was a little slower. Should we think of that as the new run rate, given the DTV transaction out there, and I know you said opportunistic, but assuming this -- at this level, give or take?

And then, second, speaking of DTV, there are a lot of opportunities in Latin America. AMX may sell some assets. The Brazil auction is coming up. Would you anticipate being involved in anything in Latin America between now and the close of the DTV deal or in the future, or do you think of DTV it is as it is for a while? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Phil, real quick, on the buyback, you are absolutely right. The pace has moderated, and certainly we take into consideration all factors -- the DTV deal, our CapEx spending, quite frankly, our investment in our customers with Next.

So, I am going to stick with the guidance we gave before that we are going to continue to be opportunistic, but you are absolutely right that the pace has moderated as compared to last year.

With regard to any transactions, other than the accountants have already made on DTV, we really wouldn't want to speculate on any -- or comment on any speculation that is out there, so we will just -- we are just really focused on continuing to work with the regulatory agencies and getting the DTV transaction approved and moving forward with that. We still -- we are more excited about it and more confident that it is the right thing to do than ever, and so we want to push it forward.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Nick, I think we are going to call for the last question.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I think last quarter you gave the normalized ARPU, and maybe I missed it this quarter, if you normalized for the sale of the equipment. And maybe, I know you have the channel sales and a few other moving parts. Can you give us what your best guess on what the normalized revenue growth was for the quarter?

And then, lastly, I know you said customers are bringing their own -- more of their own devices, but are you seeing customers trade down to lower-cost devices with the Next plan now that they have to pay for it on their own? Thanks a lot.

JOHN STEPHENS: Tim, a couple of things. If you look on slide 10 that we showed there, you can see that the ARPU plus the Next billings was about a little bit over $64, $64.35. That compares to last year's $67, so it's down around the 4%, 4.5% range.

Secondly, I will tell you that if you look at that as of the month of June, as opposed to the average for the quarter, that's about $1 higher. And so, what we are seeing is an expectation that through the rest of this year, you will see the ARPU plus those Next billings definitely increase, and we will be -- we are very optimistic about the opportunity to get back on track for growth. I will let Ralph take the other question.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, and Tim, what we are seeing today in terms of bring your own devices are devices that are typically hand-me-downs, but we are very excited because we see a new wave of low-cost smartphones where customers can outright purchase the device for a very low cost and, in essence, bring their own device by paying cash.

And the new lineup of smartphones that we will have in the second half will have several options of good-looking devices, very functional, large screens, at lower costs that will allow a customer to get our best price by a very simple purchase of the device. So we think that BYOD will probably increase as the year goes on.

JOHN STEPHENS: For the quarter, Tim, I think our BYOD units were about 3 times or more than 3 times what they were last year, but the encouraging thing for us is about three-quarters or more of those went on accounts under contract. And so, while the BYOD doesn't require a contract, when they bring them, put them on an account that has a contract, we feel real good about the sustainability of those.

And quite frankly, as Ralph mentioned, the fact that there is no subsidy cost of those makes it really a financially attractive situation.

As we close, I want to thank you all for being with us this afternoon. We have made significant progress in transforming our business for growth in the second quarter, and in particular with repositioning our wireless business model. Postpaid net adds were very strong. Specifically, smartphone net adds were very strong, and we had our best-ever postpaid churn. And we have made great strides in moving smartphone subscribers off the subsidy model.

We feel really good about our current momentum heading into the back half of the year and believe even stronger that our decision to go with this model was appropriate.

Thanks again for the call, and as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a great evening. Good night.

OPERATOR: With that, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140725ea7n008c1
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,247 words
   PD
28 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings release 2013 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Also as a reminder, today's teleconference is being recorded. At this time, I will turn the call over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Ms. Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, SVP, IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome. It's great to have you with us today.

I am Susan Johnson, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

Randall will discuss our 2013 highlights and then close with a strategic perspective and 2014 outlook, and John will cover our results. Then we will follow up with questions and answers.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That's www.att.com\investor.relations.

Of course, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three. This presentation and comments may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks. Results may differ materially. Further details are in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

I would now like to turn the call over to AT&T's Chairman and CEO, Randall Stephenson. Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Susan, and good afternoon, everyone, and happy new year. 2013 was an interesting year for the industry, and I would suggest to you it's probably a formative year.

We saw old competitors stake out new positions. We saw most of the players significantly change the value proposition for their customers. And with smartphone penetration beginning to hit some impressive levels, we've seen new business models emerge around LTE and the cloud. And in our case, that includes things like connected homes, connected cars, video and mobile business solutions.

But from our view, the most important development that we are seeing is that the entire US telecom industry is investing aggressively in advanced networks. Today, in the US, four national carriers and dozens of regional providers are building out LTE, and you just don't see that happening anywhere else in the world. The industry is now competing on price, customer service, technological innovation and, most importantly, network coverage and quality.

And we think this speaks volumes about where the country's public policy has landed concerning spectrum and the importance of light touch regulation. We think it's very, very important to maintain that approach as we move forward.

Because of these things, the industry is healthy, and it is attracting a lot of investment. So let me give you a few highlights. And then what I am going to do is turn it over to John, and he will take you through the details of the quarter.

First, our revenue and EPS growth finished right on track with our guidance. Cash generation was strong both from operations and for the monetization of nonstrategic assets. For the full year, we invested $25 billion in CapEx and spectrum, and then returned another $23 billion to shareholders through our dividend and share buyback programs.

We ended the year with really high quality credit metrics, and our pension plan funding is in great shape. 2013 was our first year for Project VIP, and we are well ahead of schedule across the board -- LTE deployment, U-verse expansion and fiber to the business. I would tell you it was a home run year by our network operations group.

In terms of LTE coverage, we said we would get LTE to 300 million people by the end of 2014. We are already closing in on that number, and we expect to be essentially done by summer.

John is going to give you the details, but growth in these platforms was very strong. Mobile data is now a $23 billion revenue stream, and it is growing at 17%. U-verse is more than $13 billion of annualized revenues, and it's growing at 28%.

Strategic business services are now at $9 billion at a run rate and the growth ramp throughout 2013, and it hit 17% in the fourth quarter. We expect this growth rate to step up again this year.

We've rolled out a number of new technology solutions. We are having terrific success with our AT&T NetBond service, which combines our VPN network with cloud services for companies like IBM and Microsoft. What it does is gives customers a secure connection to the cloud that they can't get on the public Internet.

Our mobile business solutions continue to scale. Digital life and connected card are off to strong starts, and we are very enthusiastic about no contract wireless. We expect the Leap acquisition to close by end of the first quarter, and we are convinced that putting the Cricket brand on top of the AT&T network is going to shake things up in this space.

So if you go to slide five, a year ago I told the team that 2013 would be the year of the network for us, and that turned out to be an understatement. Today our network is best-in-class. We have come out on top in all sorts of third-party tests for network quality and speed.

In fact, in a broad study of overall performance -- and that was done by RootMetrics -- we are head and shoulders above the field. The chart on slide five shows you how we stack up, and we think it's telling.

We are in a dead heat with Verizon for lowest in dropped calls, well under 1%, and our other national competitors are at twice the dropped call rate or more. That's the reason we posted record low fourth-quarter postpaid churn.

On slide six, you see that our network puts us in a great position for what we think is the industry's next growth wave. There's a lot of talk about the connected world ahead. There are different estimates on how fast it develops.

But I think we are all going to agree that it's a big opportunity. And when you combine these pervasive, superfast LTE networks with the cloud, it changes everything. It changes every industry, every aspect of our society and the economy.

And for this industry, it means we are moving past the era of smartphone wars to rethink in how we work, how we conduct commerce, how we learn and manage our health and so much more. In fact, the visual on slide six captures most of what's taking place. It starts with the ultrafast connectivity to the cloud as smartphones are quickly becoming the remote control for this connected world and the pace of innovation is accelerating.

And this explains why we are being so aggressive with project VIP and with initiatives like our U-verse 1 gig launch down in Austin. These things give us the ability to drive innovation and then lead in the next waves of growth. So with that, I want to turn it over to John to take you through the results.

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP & CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Randall. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me start with our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide seven.

As Randall said, 2013 was a solid year for our financial results. We grew consolidated revenues by almost 2%, thanks to strong growth in wireless, U-verse and strategic business services. Consolidated margins were stable, even with Project VIP expenses and record annual smartphone sales, and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8.2% for the year.

Looking at the fourth quarter, we finished the year with an exceptionally strong earnings per share performance. Reported EPS was $1.31.

However, when you exclude one-time adjustments, earnings per share for the quarter was $0.53, a 20% increase from a year ago. Adjustments include an $0.89 gain from the year-end mark-to-market change for our benefit plans. The gain was driven by an increase in the discount rate, as well as strong performance of our benefit plan investments.

And a $0.02 gain from the sale of some American Movil's shares was also one of the adjustments. We also saw $0.07 of pressure from costs associated with an early debt repayment and a $0.06 charge for costs associated with employee retirements, specifically an early retirement program that Randall mentioned.

Our solid cash flow and strong balance sheet also allowed us to be aggressive with our share buybacks. We repurchased more than 366 million shares for the year, returning nearly $23 billion to the shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

And since we began our buyback program at the beginning of 2012, we have bought back 737 million shares or about 12% of our outstanding shares. All-in-all, we turned in a very strong financial performance for the quarter and for the year.

Now let's look at our operational performance for the quarter, starting with wireless. Revenue and ARPU are on slide 8.

Strong wireless revenue growth was driven by the network strength and by data-hungry smartphones and tablets. Data is now a $23 billion annualized revenue stream, and it is continuing to grow, growing at nearly 17%. That helped drive 4.8% service revenue growth, and total wireless revenues were up 4.5%.

Postpaid ARPU growth was strong. For the 20th consecutive quarter, we saw total postpaid ARPU growth. That's a record unmatched in the industry.

And our postpaid phone-only ARPU increased by 3.9%, and that's growing off a much higher base than anyone else. We did have some adjustments in the quarter that bring the run rate closer to 3.7%, but either way a very impressive performance. Our phone-only ARPU includes smartphones, but also includes our lower ARPU feature phones and wireless home phones, which makes this growth even more impressive.

Now let's move to net adds and churn. The details are on slide nine.

Our churn story is nothing short of exceptional. In a quarter where we saw increased competitive activity, strong seasonal promotions and competitive offers targeting our postpaid base, we turned in our lowest-ever fourth-quarter postpaid churn, a record of 1.11%. We are very proud of that.

This helped drive a solid quarter of postpaid gains with almost 600,000 net adds, including nearly 300,000 smartphone subscribers. And overall we added more than 500,000 branded smartphones in the quarter, both postpaid and prepaid. We also added about 440,000 branded tablets as well.

Network coverage and quality is the top reason customers choose AT&T. And thanks to the high performance of our 4G LTE networks, we have been very successful in attracting and keeping high-value postpaid customers.

We are also taking steps to address the more value-conscious customer. Competition for these customers is intense, but our network gives us an important advantage.

On the postpaid side, we have several initiatives underway, including new mobile tier value plans and other targeted promotions. In prepaid, we have made steady progress in adding smartphone subscribers.

In the fourth quarter alone, we added more than 230,000 prepaid smartphones to our network. That gives us a base of more than 2 million prepaid smartphones. And ARPU for these customers is more than 70% higher than our non-smartphone prepaid base.

And once the Leap transaction is approved, we will be an even better option for value-conscious consumers. We believe the Cricket brand on our network will be a great combination.

Now let's take a look at our growing smartphone base. Those details are on slide 10.

Smartphones continue to take a bigger share of our phone sales. A record 93% of our postpaid phone sales were smartphones in the fourth quarter.

That increases our postpaid smartphone base by 1.2 million. For the full year, our postpaid smartphone base grew by nearly 5 million subscribers.

Overall, 77% of our postpaid phone base are on smartphones, and that compares to about 70% a year ago. Smartphone sales were strong, 7.9 million in the quarter, and data usage for smartphones continued to rise, increasing by more than 50% year over year.

We have seen an incredible response to AT&T Next, especially when we introduced the new Mobile Share Value plans, and sales improved throughout the quarter. Overall, more than 15% of all smartphone sales during the quarter were AT&T Next sales with the sales percentage in company-owned stores, much higher.

These strong sales reinforce our belief that focusing on what the customer wants is the right move. Whether it's a new device every year or the ability to take advantage of bring your own device service plans, we need to continue to focus on the customer.

AT&T Next did impact our cash flows since we are financing the handset, but that's all right. We know these customers, and we know their credit profile. Overall, this program is a great value for both our customers and us.

In the quarter, we reached a 7.1 million of Mobile Share accounts. Those accounts include more than 21 million postpaid subscribers or about three subscribers per account.

Take rates in the high-tier data plans for both Mobile Share and pure data customers continue to be strong. In the last year, the percentage of customers on those plans has nearly doubled, growing from 13% to now 24% with about a third of the Mobile Share customers on plans of 10 Gb or higher.

At the same time, Mobile Share Value plans are attracting customers who may not need such large data buckets. The new plans offer customers more savings and provide no annual service contract options, giving our existing and new customers even greater choice.

Now let's talk about wireless margins. Those details are on slide 11.

Let's start by taking a look at the full year. For 2013 our wireless EBITDA service margin was 41.3%. That is 170 basis point increase from a year ago, even though we sold more smartphones during the year.

There are a number of reasons for this improvement. Revenue growth was solid throughout the year thanks to our expanding smartphone base and increasing data usage.

Second, the strength of our network makes a difference. We are seeing outstanding speed and reliability performance and greater efficiencies as more and more customers operate LTE devices.

More than half of our smartphone base are now on LTE-capable devices. Our new upgrade policy also added a positive impact on margins, as did strong AT&T Next sales.

In the fourth quarter, wireless EBITDA was nearly $6 billion, an impressive 35% increase over last year. And wireless EBITDA service margin was 37.4%, also much higher than a year ago.

When you look at the full picture, this was a very strong wireless quarter for us. From churn to smartphone sales to margins to network performance, these solid results in a hotly competitive environment gives us confidence as we look ahead.

Now let me turn to our wireline story starting on slide 12. U-verse finished the year just as it started, with strong subscriber gains, increasing penetration and growing revenue. In fact, U-verse helped drive consumer revenue growth of nearly 3% in the fourth quarter.

U-verse continued its record of strong high-speed broadband gains. We added 630,000 U-verse broadband subscribers in the fourth quarter and 2.7 million during the year.

U-verse now represents more than 60% of our total broadband base. These subscribers not only have a higher ARPU, but churn is significantly lower as well.

We believe we have hit a tipping point with U-verse broadband. With a growing base of U-verse subscribers, we feel confident that we can grow broadband subscribers even stronger this coming year.

We also continue to excel in video. While some companies are excited about actually gaining customers, we added almost 200,000 subscribers in the quarter and nearly 1 million for the year.

Plus, we had our lowest TV churn ever in the fourth quarter. That tells us customers not only want U-verse, but they stay with us once they get it.

And we expect to maintain this momentum. We continue to add new features of such as TV Everywhere, which allows customers to view programming on smartphones and tablets, inside their home and out. And increased broadband speeds -- nearly two-thirds of the U-verse TV footprint can now get speeds up to 45 megabits per second.

U-verse is now a $13 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at 28% year over year and makes up 57% of our total consumer revenues. U-verse was a solid story from start to finish during 2013, and we expect that to continue as we expand U-verse coverage with Project VIP.

Now let's move to wireline business, which you can see on slide 13. First, let's start with some of the really good news.

Strategic business services continues to be a bigger part of business services. Those service, products such as VPN, ethernet, cloud, hosting and other advanced IP services, now make up more than 25% of business wireline, and growth is accelerating, up more than 17% year over year.

We continue to see U-verse high-speed broadband growing in the business space. Increasing speeds and broader coverage open the doors to new growth opportunities with small- and medium-sized customers.

We are also seeing increasing momentum in cloud and integrated service offerings. We are one of the top cloud providers in the world and adding scale. For example, we already have more than an exabyte of virtualized storage.

Much of this is driven by steps we are taking to move our home business processes to the cloud. Our goal is to be an entirely cloud-based enterprise within the next 3 to 5 years.

Our own IT operations are probably the most aggressive cloud operations around. So we are not just selling cloud applications, we are customers. We are users as well.

This helps focus us on developing new cloud-based products such as [NetBond]. NetBond helps our customers safeguard their information by extending their virtual private networks into the cloud, which functions like a normal VPN site and keeps data separate from other users' traffic.

And NetBond reduces latency by up to 50%, which means that businesses have access to their data almost instantly. We believe NetBond will drive even more growth.

We already are the VPN market leader with a multibillion-dollar annual business, and we had our best fourth-quarter VPN growth in years. These growth products helped to transform our revenue mix, but we still saw lower revenues in the quarter.

Total revenues were down 3.4% versus the year-earlier quarter, but were essentially flat sequentially. Businesses service revenues declined 2.4% year over year.

Behind all this are the overall economic trends. The outlook is still uncertain. Customers are still delaying buying decisions.

Business starts lagged, though slightly better than a year ago. And unemployment is slowly improving, but labor force participation is the lowest it has been in more than 30 years. It's still a slow market, but we are hopeful that we will see in improving economy to get this part of the Company growing again.

Now let's look at consolidated and wireline margins on slide 14. Even with Project VIP expenses, U-verse gains and record-breaking annual smartphone sales, consolidating margins remained relatively stable. Wireless margin improvements helped to offset this pressure.

For the year, our adjusted consolidated margin was 18% compared to 18.2% last year. This pressure on wireline was expected. Much of it is tied to Project VIP and other success-based initiatives.

We had almost 1 million new U-verse TV subscribers, and they were trailing expenses from VIP investments. And depreciation expenses were also higher.

We continue to take steps on the cost cutting side as well. This includes the introduction of Project Agile.

Project Agile is a major new initiative that is transforming how the Company organizes and operates around customers to deliver a best-in-class customer experience as an all-IP, all mobile and all cloud services company. You see considerable opportunity to raise costs through simplifying processes, standardizing platforms and making our customer interactions effortless and efficient. Randall will talk more about this initiative in just a few moments.

Now let's move to cash flow. Our summary is on slide 15.

In 2013 cash from operations totaled nearly $35 billion. Capital expenditures were $21.2 million as we deployed Project VIP, and free cash flow before dividends was $13.6 billion. This was impacted somewhat by the tremendous success of AT&T Next.

We also have been very opportunistic in monetizing some of our assets. This includes the tower transaction with Crown Castle, sales of some of our American Movil shares and sales of some of our real estate assets.

These items generated $7 billion in cash for the year and nearly $6 billion in additional cash in the fourth quarter alone. All this and free cash flow generated about $20 billion in cash during the year and strengthened our cash position.

Our balance sheet remains solid. Net debt hedged up during the year. However, our average affective interest rate is down compared to last year, thanks to debt financing, early repayments of debt and historically low interest rates. And a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.73 is well below our 1.8 target and down for the third quarter, even with our Project VIP investments.

In addition to investing in our business, we also returned substantial value to shareholders. For the year, we repurchased about 366 million shares for around $13 billion.

We made dividend payments for the year totaling nearly $10 billion. This makes our total returns to shareholders for the year right at $23 billion, and in the last two years, we returned more than $45 billion, a record unmatched in the industry.

Now, before I hand it back to Randall, let's take a quick look at how we delivered on 2013 guidance. That's on slide 16.

So how did we do for the year? On an adjusted basis, we expected upper single digit EPS growth, continued revenue growth in wireless and consumer wireline, and stable consolidated margins, and that's what we delivered. We set out ambitious Project VIP targets, increased them during the year and still came in ahead of forecast.

We also are excited about the Leap acquisition and how it will support our project VIP deployment. Once the deal is closed, we will take a look at how it will impact our sell-side bill plans and densifiication initiatives.

We continue to generate cash both through asset monetizations and free cash flow. We also took several steps to manage our debt, helping reduce the cost of debt even as we invested in future growth. And through it all, we remain focused on the shareholder, returning substantial value through dividends and buybacks.

Altogether, a solid year during a transformational time in our business. I now will turn it back to Randall to talk to you a little bit more about that transformation. Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay. Thanks, John. I will close with just a couple of comments on what you can expect from us in 2014, and I will reiterate what we laid out when we announced Project VIP.

That was that 2014 is our peak year for VIP investment. And our outlook is very consistent with that original plan.

We will continue to be aggressive on the network front. We expect to hit our LTE coverage target ahead of schedule this year.

We also have a big effort in terms of network densification and cell sites. We will further ramp our U-verse and business fiber builds. Video, we believe, is a big growth opportunity.

So we have a major initiative to make our network the best-in-class for video delivery for both wireline and wireless. In the longer-term, we are taking the lead in virtualizing our network to shift functionality from hardware to software. And over time we believe the payoffs and operating efficiency and speed to market are going to be significant.

In terms of our investments in growth, global data and U-verse, while they are beginning to scale to very large businesses in and of themselves, are still very early in their growth curves. And the same holds for our strategic business services.

As John pointed out with the Cricket brand on top of the AT&T network, you should expect us to be disruptive in the no contract space this year. We have a number of new services that will begin to move the needle this year. We will launch Digital Life into a number of more markets.

We've taken a leadership position in connected cars. In fact, we already announced agreements with GM and Ford, Nissan, Audi, BMW, Tesla, and there are more to come.

And as I mentioned, we have a number of new cloud security and mobile solutions for business. And in parallel, we are also reengineering how we operate.

We have a major effort this year to rearchitect our enterprise customer experience, rethinking every step end to end, to dramatically shorten our intervals. Across our business, we are driving to make 80% of our customer interactions digital and online by 2020, and Project Agile is all about streamlining operations around an all-IP cloud and mobility experience.

And as a first step, about 5600 employees took voluntary retirement in the fourth quarter. Most of those were management employees.

We have additional Project Agile initiatives underway, which will require some investment. But we expect run rate savings in the $3 billion range by 2017.

If you go to slide 18, it lays out our financial expectations for 2014. They are very much on track with what we laid out for you when we launched Project VIP some 14 months ago, so there shouldn't be any surprises here. We expect consolidated revenue growth in the 2% to 3% range.

This doesn't include any impact from our planned Leap acquisition. We expect stable consolidated margins with adjusted EPS growth in the mid-single-digit range, and this does not factor in any future share buybacks. And we expect cash from operations in the $32 billion range.

2014 capital will be in the $21 billion range, exactly what we laid out earlier for Project VIP, with savings from our original plan offset by capital for Agile and some new network projects. Again, we expect 2014 will be our peak investment year for Project VIP.

And with the stepup in cash taxes, we expect free cash flow this year in the $11 billion range with similar levels for 2015. Post-VIP we expect free cash flow and dividend coverage to trend back to the historical levels. We also expect cash from divestitures from some nonstrategic assets, and all of this is based on some rather conservative assumptions that includes US economic growth of around 2%.

Finally, I know everyone saw the filing we made with the UK Takeover Panel yesterday. I think the statement speaks for itself.

We've talked in the past about how we view the European market, and we don't have much to add. Again, we are on track with and in most cases we are ahead of what we committed to you when we rolled out Project VIP.

We have a lot of opportunity ahead of us, and the initiatives we are executing have really good payoffs in terms of growth and cost structure. And 2014 is going to be a very productive year for us. So Susan, with that, I think we are ready for questions.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you, Randall. Tony, I think we are now ready to open it up for our Q&A session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Randall, just very quickly, can you just give us some color on exactly why at this point you had to file with the UK Takeover Panel? And then John, on the free cash flow, can you just give us a little bit more detail around the cash taxes, and what the impact is in 2014 and 2015, and what the CapEx is likely to be in 2015 to get to that $11 billion number? And is there any impact on working capital from the Next program as that starts to ramp this year as well?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: In terms of the -- they call it a 2.8 announcement we made in the UK yesterday, anytime you get a lot of noise around any kind of M&A, it's standard procedure for the Takeover Panel to contact the parties that are being mentioned and ask him to make a declaration. And so we were contacted over the weekend because of a lot of press surrounding us in Europe and asked to make a declaration.

So we made the declaration we did. I really don't have much more to add than that. It's just a technical requirement by the Panel.

JOHN STEPHENS: Simon, on the free cash flow, I will take it from the standpoint of we are expecting that $32 billion of cash from operations and the $21 billion range on CapEx is the biggest generator. When you look at the $32 billion and you compare it to this year, the major change is a pickup in cash taxes.

Some of it is from our pension funding strategy that we implemented last year. Some of it is from depreciation.

It does incorporate continued growth in the Next program, and it does incorporate what is effectively pressure from that program. But that is all inclusive.

Likewise, if you look at 2015, some of the same things are happening. We will have certainly continued tax pressure, but we will also have growing -- we would expect to have some growing pressure from Next and some growing and strong, I should say, CapEx. But our operational improvements and our revenue growth and our profitability improvements will allow us to cover that and keep it stable, to keep us very comfortable in our coverage ratios.

SIMON FLANNERY: So CapEx is around that $21 billion again in 2015?

JOHN STEPHENS: We are not specifically giving guidance on that, but I would tell you that in prior conversations we talked about CapEx being in the current year $21 billion for 2013 and then $20 billion and $20 billion. We have upped it for Project Agile this year, and we will continue to have -- I would expect we would continue to have some Project Agile efficiency investments going forward.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: I guess it's good for the industry that the consumers are back to being in the willingness to pay for full handsets. Maybe, John, just your thought on at least in the current quarter the impact of Next on churn, and then looking through the tracking of it throughout the quarter, obviously December a very strong month. Is there seasonality to that, or should we be thinking about -- or how should we be thinking about percentage of gross adds or upgrades as we progress through 2014?

And then secondarily, your comments regarding Cricket, is there something to be read through that? Meaning that some of these folks that are getting EIP contracts in the industry maybe would be better off in the Cricket type product? Or when you say shake things up, I guess I'm trying to understand what that means.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: So let me take a couple of the questions and go from there. If you look at where we were at the end of the quarter, we had about 10% of our handset sales being through the Next program. During the fourth quarter, that grew.

For the overall fourth quarter, we had about 15% or about 1 million handsets sold under the next program, and we came out of the quarter at about 20%. We continue to see strong sales in the first quarter. So that's what we are dealing with with regard to Next, a very good opportunity for our customers.

They like the program. They are electing it. They are choosing it, and certainly we like it.

While I am confident that Next has had a positive impact on our churn, I would suggest to you that the award-winning customer service our retail stores give our customers and our really great network performance are also really significant factors in that real reduction in our churn rate in the fourth quarter. I can't point to just one item. I've got to tell you that I believe it's the network performance, it's the sales efforts, the quality service and, quite frankly, the good choices, including Next, that our marketing team has put out there.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: As it relates to the Leap acquisition, we have spent the last six or seven years chasing capacity in our network build. And we have been very reluctant to move down market because we have some very, very high value customers, high ARPU customers that we are ensuring that we maintain network quality and capacity there. As we make the move to LTE and as we continue to push the network build and to create capacity, it has created a whole new opportunity for us to think about the value segment and the no contract segment.

And as we get into the Leap acquisition, as we really study the Cricket brand, we are finding that it is a very, very strong brand. And we really believe that at that end of the market, as you put a no contract type service on top of an AT&T network, our coverage, our quality and our performance, we are convinced there's a real opportunity to grow.

We are convinced that we can grow from a couple of standpoints. And that is what we have seen in terms of moving smartphones, deeper and deeper penetration of postpaid, that play has yet to be run in the prepaid segment to any meaningful degree.

And you should expect us to be very assertive and very aggressive to push smartphone penetration in the no contract space and to be aggressive as it relates to pricing. We will be using a different brand.

We can do some things that will be disruptive in the market. And we are actually getting more and more excited about it the closer we get to closing in the first quarter.

MIKE MCCORMACK: And Randall, just looking at it as a bifurcation of credit risk and understanding some balance sheet risk there as well?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: That's exactly what it is. And also giving you the flexibility to do some things in the marketplace with a different brand that you wouldn't do with the traditional brand.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys. A couple.

One, Randall, just to follow up real quick -- in your regulatory conversations in the last week, have you learned anything new? Not necessarily about you, but of a US company's ability to buy assets in Europe, whether those are NSA issues or otherwise?

And then second, John, given the high payout ratio for 2014 and it sounds like 2015, should we assume that the days of big buybacks are pretty much over for now? Is there any room to raise the leverage there?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: So I was in Davos, actually, and I had an opportunity to meet with several folks that were administrations and policymakers and so forth. And my main objective for last week, as it related to those conversations, was we have had some business impacts from the NSA revelations, and they have not been inconsequential.

We are having customers ask us a lot of questions. We are having policymakers ask us a lot of questions, and it's affecting our ongoing business today, irrespective of anything that might relate to some M&A or whatnot.

And so I was really there to discern what was the attitude and the disposition and try to help formulate our own plans as it relates to those. And it was fortuitous that the President made his speech the Friday before.

I think that speech was helpful in terms of the policymakers in Europe understanding where the administration here, the President, is going on metadata collection and so forth. And so I would tell you it was, net-net a productive set of discussions, and I feel like we have a path just as it relates to our ongoing business operations there today.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me comment on your questions with regard to buybacks. First and foremost, I'd make the point I'm very comfortable with our payout ratios. I feel real good about our balance sheet.

You can see that our debt ratios are well within line with our previous guidance, that we have been able to generate strong cash from operations. But, quite frankly, we have also been able to generate strong cash from asset monetizations, nonstrategic assets.

And we still believe we have opportunities there, as the stock transition, and announced transaction would imply. So I feel very comfortable not only for 2014 and 2015 with where we're at on our payout ratios.

With that being said, our assumption is the business plan and our guidance that we gave, it was not based on additional buybacks. We will continue to buy back opportunistically. I will tell you we have about 160 million shares left on our authorization, so that would give you a gating factor unless our board would give us more guidance.

But we feel real good about our payout ratios and where our balance sheet is. It remains very strong.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Maybe, Randall, could you comment on the competitive environment you are currently seeing in the wireless market and maybe look out to what you expect and how you expect to evolve in 2014? And specifically with T-Mobile's new ETF strategy, it seems to be the first promotion that really targets family plans. And is that something that you see as more of a significant change in the competitive landscape or just more of the same promotions that we've seen in the past?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: As I had mentioned in my opening comments, it was a formative year for the industry. And I would tell you what is probably most interesting to me as we look at what has played out in 2013 and carried into the first month of 2014 is the idea that our customers are demonstrating an interest, desire even, to put more of their money into the handset in exchange for lower monthly pricing.

And that's what you see happening in the marketplace right now. More and more customers are moving to the handset financing plans, picking up more of the cost of the handset with a desire to have a lower monthly rate.

And so we are seeing that play itself out. And you are seeing the whole market move there. All players are introducing these kind of plans, and our customers are loving it.

You heard John talk about the take rates and how in December 20% of all our smartphone sales were on these types of arrangements. And so we can say that's great margin opportunity. But then you turn around and reinvesting it back into the customer in terms of better pricing in the marketplace. And so that's working out very interesting.

As it relates to the impact on competition, there's a lot of noise. At the end of the day, we study this nine ways to Sunday, and we've made a lot of moves in the marketplace ourselves.

And fourth-quarter churn was the lowest fourth-quarter churn we've ever experienced. And it just continues to reinforce that you have to be aggressive in the marketplace.

You have to constantly have your ear to the ground and tuned to what the customer expects. But you had better have a high quality network experience, both data and voice.

And we really, really feel good about what was accomplished in 2013 in terms of network quality. Again, our voice quality is on par with the best in the industry, in the United States. And when you look at everybody else in the industry, we are running dropped call rates that are half of what the nearest competitor is running.

So competitive intensity is going to remain strong. I have no doubt that you will see that continue. I have no doubt that you will see us continue all to modify our value propositions. But, as I have pointed out earlier, I think where you will see us get most competitive is moving down into the value space with the Leap acquisition and using the Cricket brand.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thanks for taking my questions. Two, if I could.

First, Randall, obviously we have had a win for the carriers on the net neutrality space. You guys were out at CES with some of your sponsored data trials, visible for the marketplace.

Obviously, Ed Whitacre started this conversation many years ago with the marketplace. Could you tell us how you see the next steps unfolding, and when, if ever, we might be able to see a real monetization of this opportunity?

And then second, John, just for you on the EPS guidance, two pieces I wanted to talk about -- just one, obviously we are going to get about 2% benefit year over year from the ending share count relative to the midpoint of 2013. And then obviously on the Next program, we are going to get a lot more equipment revenue being booked for a fifth of the customers coming in the door than we do under the old plans.

By my math, we should see roughly $1 billion more revenue dropping into the EBITDA line, dropping into the earnings line for 2014. That's going to be about another 4% or 5% benefit.

So we are already at 7% earnings per share growth year over year before we've even started to work on the business. Can you talk about where the core business is going to go in 2014?

Is it a growth year? Is it a stable year as you work on competition? What's underneath the hood for 2014?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Net neutrality -- I just kind of laughed when you made the comment about Whitacre. I thought, what was thatt, like 2002 or 2003, right?

DAVID BARDEN: A lifetime ago.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: And the industry has come a long way since then. And over the last couple of years, the industry came together and worked and agreed to a framework as it related to net neutrality that the FCC promulgated into rules. We did have this court order.

From our standpoint, David, that changed really nothing. It doesn't change any way that we will operate. I really don't believe it's going to change much of what anybody in the industry will do.

As you pointed out, we introduced our sponsored data plans, which the easiest way to articulate it is like 1-800-data, where companies may want customers to access their content, and they would be willing to pay the freight to let those customers access their content. We can't find that that violates anybody's net neutrality rules that are in place today.

It's perfectly voluntary. It's open to any company that might want to do this.

You think about the kind of situations that are driving this (inaudible), and it's very interesting. So, for example, United Health -- they have a number of young mothers who are not getting good education and training on prenatal care. And obviously, it's driving their healthcare costs up.

United Health says we have a lot of information, a lot of data. We want to motivate these young women to come watch and to take advantage of it. And they said we would like to pay for it to make sure that there are no constraints, nothing gets in the way for these women taking advantage of this training to address their prenatal care.

And so they said we are willing to pay for that and provide motivation and incentives for these young mothers to take advantage of that. I'm struggling to figure out what the argument against those types of services would be.

So you're going to see these evolve. I have no doubt you'll see them scale. It's the same way the long-distance industry grew in scale.

And I think mobile data and mobile Internet services will follow some of the same paths. So stay tuned, but I don't see the court ruling on net neutrality changing anything in terms of how we operate or most anybody else in the industry, for that matter.

JOHN STEPHENS: David, on your second question, a couple of quick comments. We are giving net guidance on EPS growth in the mid-single digits range. You are right. We will get a little lift underneath our wings from the buyback that took place in 2013. We're not assuming anymore in [2014].

In the wireless space, we do expect some benefits, not only from Next, but also from our 24-month upgrade cycle. But I will say some of the customers on Next, while they are electing that, they are also, as Randall mentioned, electing to choose the bring your own device pricing platforms.

And so those benefits from Next may be moving from our service revenues. You'll see a different mix of revenues with the equipment and service. But we are positive about the wireless market and about continuing to expand margins.

On the consumer side, U-verse is doing great. We continue to expect to see growth. You saw the kind of numbers they posted on video in the fourth quarter and for the year as well as high-speed broadband, and with that additional footprint, we are optimistic there.

Business is still challenged, but strategic services are going great. The base is up to 25%.

We expect it to expand. And with that expansion should come an opportunity to expand the growth rate.

So what are the challenges? Well, the challenges are an overall slow economy, a lack of investment by the private sector in the US economy and, quite frankly, we still have, although we have made a lot of progress in our voice, legacy voice headwinds.

And we've brought that from what it was in 2011, about 22% of our revenue base is now down to 17% and, in the fourth quarter, down to 16%. We still have to overcome those challenges in a low employment, slow economy environment. When you put that altogether, we are optimistic about the year, but we are at that mid-single digit guidance.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: David, I would just add on that if we can get some type of US economic growth in that 3% to 4% range, it changes the equation for a lot of us. And I'm hopeful -- I'm not yet optimistic, but I'm hopeful.

And you can assume that we, AT&T and the business community in general, are going to be pushing an agenda. I hope to hear the President speak on several of these issues tonight -- first and foremost, business tax reform.

I just can't think of anything that would move this needle faster and to a greater extent than business tax reform. And I do believe the administration and Congress are all supportive. Here's an area where everybody has coalesced, and it seems like it's ripe for getting done.

Trade is obviously huge and immigration reform. Everybody is talking about these.

Everybody in Congress and the administration is expressing a desire and a need to get this done. If you could just get a couple of these done, I think it takes this 2% to a 3% plus growth profile, and that does change our view of this as well.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiavanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIAVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: John, you have been able to find opportunities to monetize some non-core assets. Do you see any additional opportunities as we move forward, and how should we think about the use of the capital from these type of transactions?

JOHN STEPHENS: First and foremost, we are always looking for opportunities. The most recent example of that was that announcement of the Southern New England Telephone transaction at $2 billion, a transaction we expect to close at the end of the year. I will tell you we will continue to look at things like real estate, like we did last year, at other opportunities.

In a Company of our size with a $0.25 trillion balance sheet and a company that has the history, a 100-year-old-plus company, we have opportunities. Now, we will continue to search those out. And as some of the economics on real estate and other things improve, we are optimistic about those.

With that being said, we are going to keep our balance sheet strong like we always have. We are going to keep our credit metrics strong, as we have, and we are going to be opportunistic with the use of that cash. We feel good about where we are at, feel good about how we have treated our shareholders and our ability to continue to keep them in the forefront as we invest for our customers and our employees.

JOE MASTROGIAVANNI: And do you think this could maybe give you an opportunity to ramp some of those buybacks? We have seen it slow over the last couple quarters.

JOHN STEPHENS: Well, certainly all of those things will be taken into account as we make those decisions. But I do want to make sure I'm clear on the guidance that for next year, our EPS guidance did not assume a rampup in the economy and did not assume any buybacks. And as we've said before, we are going to be opportunistic with our buybacks and make sure that they are done from a position of strength, as we have been doing, as we continue to remain with a strong balance sheet.

OPERATOR: Adam Ilkowitz, Nomura.

ADAM ILKOWITZ, ANALYST, NOMURA: Just one question on the balance sheet side. You had made a move on the pension plan to fully fund that on the preferred equity contribution, if you could.

And then on the wireless side, the postpaid gross additions, I know that this is a tough quarter with some of the moves that were going on. But I was wondering if, on the high-end postpaid side, you are looking to accelerate sales in any way.

JOHN STEPHENS: So first and foremost, with regard to the pension plan funding, we continue to work with the Department of Labor for an official approval. That process continues to go well. For our purposes, as we had filed and we publicly stated, we have made the contribution. We did that in September of last year.

And when you look at our audited pension financial statements this year, they will be essentially fully funded. They will be at the 99.8% or 100.2% funding. So that is going well.

We do not have an official ruling yet from the DOL, but we are still very optimistic about it. And, quite frankly, I will tell you I am complimentary about the work and the way we have been respected by the individuals at the Department of Labor. They have been good to work with.

With regard to gross additions and our wireless, we are always looking to be competitive, and we are always looking for opportunities to continue to grow what has been just a great business for us. As Randall said, we are continuing to respond not just to competition but what our customers want.

And we will continue to focus on offerings and products that allow us to do that. I will tell you that we are looking at sustainable growth, profitable growth, growth that gets for both us and the customers, not growth that does not make economic sense long-term.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT: First, for Randall, if you go back to your page 6 diagram, how much of your strategy do you want to be the enabler of these applications with your network versus outrightly owning these applications that pale when you compare it to the a la carte alternative? And John, if I can throw out a question, back on the dividend coverage, how should investors be thinking about the coverage aspirations that AT&T has on a few-year view, and how should they think about how much comes from growth in revenue or cash flow from operations versus lowering the CapEx over time?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Michael, on Enabler versus owning the end-user or the finished service, the answer to the question is yes and it depends. As you think about LTE and cloud capabilities, there are some where we will take it all the way through to the finished service.

A classic example of that would be home security and home automation, the connected home. That is a finished service that we are monetizing at the retail level.

As you think about our NetBond product, we are enabling other people via APIs and capabilities to monetize through us, providing a secure environment for cloud services. By that same token, we have our own cloud services out there that we are selling at the retail level as well.

You can think about in terms of health services. We are opening up APIs, allowing companies to come and put their devices and their applications and use our network services to accommodate that. We think this is a rather sizable opportunity.

Payments, mobile payments -- we are working with a JV, Isis, where Verizon and T-Mobile our partners of that JV. That is a finished service.

So it's going to cover the gamut. We think the opportunities are really large.

The connected car is probably going to be both. There are going to be subscribers who the car is like an additional device. They add on to their data bucket.

But the auto manufacturers will look at us as a platform, and they will sell finished services in the car through our connected capability as well. So, again, the answer to your question is yes, all of the above.

JOHN STEPHENS: With regard to the dividend coverage, once again, let me reiterate we feel very comfortable about the dividend coverage for 2014 and 2015. But with the continuing revenue growth, with the opportunity that the VIP network platform provides us not only for products and services in revenue but, quite frankly, for efficiency through Project Agile, we believe that you will see us trend fairly quickly to more historic levels of dividend coverage.

And, quite frankly, I'm opportunistic that we can get the benefit of that. I think that's a mix of efficiency from the payoff from Project VIP and high-quality IP networks, as well as the revenue growth that comes from those products.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Tony, I think we have got time for just one more question.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Thank you very much, and good afternoon, folks. On the churn front, certainly you reported the lowest fourth-quarter postpaid churn coming out of you folks. Given some of the recent initiatives, in part launched by you folks during the quarter, for carriers to absorb ETF fees, should we expect your postpaid churn and perhaps the industry's, for that matter, to go up here, given what seems to be more increased flexibility to shift between competitors?

JOHN STEPHENS: Good question. Thanks for that. Let me give you a couple of comments.

First of all, our churn improvements were not just in our wireless business, and we are very proud of those. But I need to point to you that we had really great performance in U-verse churn and consumer video churn. So we are really pleased with churn and an overall customer satisfaction with this network quality we have.

Secondly, I will tell you that when people talk about things like forwarding ratios and offers for ETF, the real measure of a network and the real measure of customer satisfaction is churn. Forwarding is -- forwarding issues or ETF issues are a subset of that.

Historically about a third of our customers who made a change forwarded their numbers. About two-thirds didn't.

And so when you have unusual and sometimes uneconomic offers to pay someone's ETF, you may shift forwarding ratios, but that may not have any change to the total churn picture. It's just the difference between those customers who made a change with or without forwarding.

Well, we certainly have a competitive environment, and we are certainly going to keep our eye on the ball and make sure that we continue to respond to what customers want in a sustainable process. But we think those are the driving force, those choice matters are the driving issues, not necessarily just one ETF offer or another.

ADAM ILKOWITZ: Thank you. That's very helpful.

And then one last question, if I may, on the release from yesterday. Has anything changed in terms of your view on the regional market outlook for Europe over the longer term with respect to the potential opportunity for mobile data for someone who ops to invest in the region?

JOHN STEPHENS: No. In our view, Europe hasn't changed at all.

So with that, let me take this moment to thank all of you for being on the call with us today. We closed the year with a solid performance, a solid quarter, a solid year.

Our growth platforms are going strong. Our wireless network is best-in-class, and our capital structure is solid.

And, as Randall mentioned, we are positioned well for 2014, focused on growth. We have a solid, achievable plan that will help us get there.

Thanks, again, for being on the call. And, as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good evening.

OPERATOR: And, ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcric : Cricket | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140130ea1s006em
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,055 words
   PD
23 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T second-quarter earnings release 2013 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator instructions). Also as a reminder, today's teleconference is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I will turn the conference call over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T, Ms. Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, SVP OF IR, AT&T, INC.: Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our second-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today. I am Susan Johnson, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer; and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility. John will cover our consolidated and Wireline results, and Ralph will give us an update on our wireless business; then we will follow up with questions and answers.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of AT&T's website. That's www.AT.com\investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three of the presentation. This presentation and comments may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks. Results may differ materially. Details are in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

With that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, AT&T, INC.: Thanks, Susan, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for being with us today and thank you for your interest in AT&T. Let me start with our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 4.

Consolidated revenue was a solid $32.1 billion, up $500 million, or 1.6% on a reported basis and up an impressive $800 million, or 2.6% when you exclude the divested Advertising Solutions business. And, we were able to do this with no lift from the economy. These gains were due to solid revenue growth in Wireless, strong gains in U-verse services and with improving revenue from our Wireline business.

Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.71. That's up almost 8% over last year's second quarter. Our results this quarter include about a $0.04 lift from the sales of some of our American Movil shares. You may recall that America Movil has a share buyback program underway and we were selling shares to maintain our ownership closer to our historic level of about 9%.

When you exclude this help, earnings per share were $0.67. Our adjusted EPS is up about 5% for the year and up nearly 2% in the second quarter. Consolidated margins were down year-over-year, primarily due to success-based initiatives in both Wireless and Wireline.

Cash flow continues to be strong. Cash from operating activities for the quarter totaled $9.5 billion, which allowed us to have a strong capital investment in Project VIP and still have free cash flow of $4 billion. And in the second quarter we bought back about 90 million shares for $3.3 billion and, with our strong dividend, returned more than $5.7 billion to shareholders.

Now let me give you the highlights for the quarter on slide 5. As you can see, we continue to execute at a high level. Our network performance is nothing short of terrific. We have posted impressive metrics across our key growth drivers and, as a result, we have improved momentum heading into the second half of the year. And as I said, we see this across our most important growth areas. That includes about 20% growth in mobile data, strong postpaid net adds and record-setting smartphone sales.

Total U-verse subs reached 9.4 million while video subs topped 5 million customers for the first time. Total U-verse revenues grew 30% and U-verse now represents more than 50% of consumer revenues. And even with little help from the economy, business Wireline showed sequential revenue improvement as strategic business services grew by more than 15%.

All this resulted in improved revenue growth, continued EPS gains and strong free cash flow, even while investing more in our customers and in our Project VIP.

I now would like to turn the call over to Ralph de la Vega, who is going to update us on all the work going on in wireless. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT & CEO AT&T MOBILITY, AT&T, INC.: Thank you, John, and hello, everyone. It's great to be with you today. Before we get to the Wireless highlights for the quarter, I would like to take a moment to give you a quick update on our 4G LTE Wireless network, which is now the nation's fastest and most reliable 4G LT network. Details are on slide 6.

Our network team has done an incredible job with our LTE deployment. All LTE networks are not built the same. They all don't use the same network architecture. Not all have the same network reliability and density, and they all don't have the fastest speeds. Our goal was to build the best LTE experience from the very first market we deployed.

You can see by the high praise and recognition our network has received that the results speak for themselves. PC Magazine called our 4G LT network the nation's fastest. PC World said we have the fastest average download and upload speeds of any competitor in its test for the second year in a row. And, according to independent third-party data, we now have the most reliable 4G LTE network as well.

We already cover more than 225 million people with our 4G LTE network today and we are on track to reach nearly 270 million POPs by year end, covering 400 markets. We continue to move fast with our 4G LTE deployment. We now expect to substantially complete our 4G LTE network by the next summer.

Customers love our LTE experience. We already have more than 35% of our smartphone subscribers on LTE, and that number is accelerating quickly thanks to our impressive line of LTE devices. The recognition is great to see, but this network also provides a solid foundation for our Wireless growth platforms, and those details are on slide 7.

Having the nation's fastest and most reliable network gives us an advantage when it comes to data growth and the growth story is very powerful. Smartphone data usage is up 50% year over year, and more than 70% of those devices are on usage-based plans with most taking larger data plans. This growth, plus an increasing number of smartphone subscribers and new data devices being added to the network, drives a strong 20% mobile data growth that we are seeing.

We also rolled out our first Digital Life markets in the second quarter. We are now up and running in 33 markets and expect to be in 50 by year end. I already have Digital Life in my home; I let me tell you, it's really amazing what it can do. We believe home security and automation is a large untapped opportunity for us.

Another opportunity is the connected car. You already know our GM agreement to begin wireless connectivity for all GM vehicles in the US market beginning in 2014. We have also announced an agreement with Sirius XM satellite radio to provide mobile connectivity supporting a suite of security and services for Nissan Automobiles in North America. And, yesterday, we announced an agreement with Audiovox to provide network connectivity to Audiovox telematics and location-based service systems.

You also know about recent moves in the prepaid space. We recently introduced a new prepaid service, and the proposed Leap Wireless deal will accelerate our expansion in this segment. We believe we have the right strategies in place to make a stronger impact in the prepaid segment and think there is a strong growth opportunity there as well.

Finally, last week we announced AT&T Next, a program where customers can get a new smartphone or tablet every year with no down payment, no activation fee, no upgrade fee and no financing fees. This is a great program that provides great value and more choice for our customers. Many customers don't want to wait for the latest and greatest device, and with AT&T Next they don't have to.

Now let's move on to our second-quarter results, starting with a look at postpaid net adds on slide 8. Led by solid gains in tablets, we added more than 550,000 postpaid subscribers in the quarter, and that's a 72% increase from the year-ago quarter and our best second-quarter postpaid net add quarter in four years. We added about 400,000 postpaid tablets, which we expect to be the largest gain of any carrier in the second quarter. In addition, prepaid net adds increased as a result of solid GoPhone sales.

Total prepaid sales continued to be impacted by the migration of session-based tablets to postpaid plans, which is a transition that we are happy to see. Gains in connected devices more than offset losses in the reseller segment, where we saw subscriber losses primarily in low-revenue accounts. However, reseller revenue increased by almost 30% year-over-year.

Postpaid churn was up slightly year-over-year but down from the first quarter; and smartphone churn was even better, less than 1%.

Strong postpaid net adds helped drive solid revenue growth, and those details are on slide 9. Revenues continue to be led by data growth. We saw nearly 20% growth in data revenues in the quarter, and that helped to drive a 4.1% service revenue growth. Total Wireless revenues were up nearly 6%. The growth of smartphones, tablets and other data devices is fueling this data growth. Mobile data is now nearly a $22 billion annualized revenues stream for us.

This growth can also be seen in our expanding postpaid ARPUs. Total postpaid ARPU, which includes tablets, was up nearly 2% in the quarter, but phone-only ARPU was up 3%. Our phone-only ARPU includes smartphones but also includes our lower ARPU feature phones and wireless home phones as well, which make this growth even more impressive. And postpaid data ARPU grew at nearly 18%.

Smartphone sales were also strong this quarter, and those details on slide 10. A second-quarter record 88% of our postpaid phone sales were smartphones. Smartphone subscribers now make up 73% of our postpaid phone base, and that's an increase of more than 1.2 million new smartphone subscribers in the quarter. These are the premium subscribers in our business. They have twice the ARPU of non-smartphone subscribers and much lower churn. We also set another second-quarter smartphone sales record of 6.8 million, an excellent performance in a very competitive environment. This helped drive record Android smartphone sales both in total number of phones sold and in the highest percentage of total sales, and we did this while also selling more iPhones than we did a year ago.

Several promotions on our new low-cost trading program helped to fuel these strong sales, bringing in new customers while also keeping existing ones on two-year contracts. And it also increased the number of LTE devices on the network. More than 35% of smartphones now are on LTE.

The move to usage-based data plans also continued in the second quarter. Overall, more than 70% of our smartphone base has moved to usage-based plans, and data used on these smartphones is growing by about 50% year-over-year.

So we have more smartphones on usage-based plans, data growth is strong and a growing number of subscribers are taking bigger buckets of data from us. About 80% already take the larger data plans and we are seeing more than a quarter of mobile share accounts on data plans of 10 gigabytes or higher.

And speaking of Mobile Share, we now have about 4.3 million Mobile Share accounts, and those accounts include more than 13 million subscribers on devices such as smartphones and tablets. We continue to see a steady movement of subscribers on the limited plans to Mobile Share. More than 15% of subscribers to date moved over from unlimited plans. And remember that our customers have a choice; they can keep the plan they have or move to Mobile Share, whatever plan that works best for them.

Strong postpaid net adds, smartphone sales and upgrades impacted margins, and those details are on slide 11. Our Wireless EBITDA service margin was slightly below our first-quarter levels at 42.4%, but we sold 800,000 more smartphones in the second quarter than we did in the first. We made a strong effort to get people into our stores or on our website through promotions that allow customers to trade in their phones and sign new contracts with us, and that strategy worked extremely well. Upgrades were much stronger than a year ago and the first quarter, and we had a higher percentage of customers on contract at the end of the second quarter than we did at the end of the first quarter. The long-term value they bring is impressive -- higher ARPU, lower churn, strong data growth and greater network efficiencies from our new LTE devices.

The trade-in program also gave customers a chance to upgrade their phones before the upgrade period moved to 24 months. At the same time, our new AT&T Next program gives customers the best choice if they want a new device every year.

So as you can tell, we are very busy this quarter introducing new programs and delivering a strong second-quarter performance. You will continue to see us drive strategies to grow our business as we move throughout the year.

John, those are the highlights from Wireless, and with that I will turn it back to you to discuss Wireline results.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Ralph, appreciate it. Now let's look at our Wireline operations, starting with consumer, which you can see on slide 12.

As I mentioned at the outset, we passed a crucial threshold with U-verse. It now accounts for more than half of all consumer revenues. Two years ago, U-verse was less than a third of consumer; now it's more than half and growing very fast. That's a remarkable benchmark as we transform our business. We now have 9.4 million total U-verse subscribers. That's more than double the number we had just two years ago. We added more than 640,000 U-verse high-speed broadband subs in the quarter and 233,000 new U-verse TV subscribers, topping 5 million video subscribers for the very first time.

U-verse broadband now makes up more than 50% of our total broadband base with total broadband ARPU growing at more than 9% year-over-year. These gains helped drive overall consumer revenue growth of 2.4%, with total U-verse revenues of nearly 30% in the quarter.

U-verse is now a nearly $12 billion annualized revenue stream, not bad for a business that was just started seven years ago. And, it also shows clearly that we know how to build and scale new businesses as we move forward with Project VIP.

Now let's move to Wireline business, which you can see on slide 13. The economy continues to be challenging and is not providing any assistance to our efforts here. But, on the bright side, we do see some signs of improvement from the first quarter. Business revenue was down 2.2% year-over-year but increased sequentially with both enterprise and small business showing sequential revenue growth. Small business also showed growing customer momentum with U-verse broadband net adds.

Part of the business continued to do very well. Growth continued to be strong in strategic business services. That's products such as VPN, Ethernet, hosting and other advanced IP services, which were up more than 15% in the quarter. These services represent a more than $8 billion annualized revenue stream and are approaching 25% of total business Wireline revenues. And we continue to do well with Wireless in the business space. We had our best-ever Wireless business adds in the quarter.

More and more businesses want solutions that include wireless. For example, earlier today we announced an agreement with Disney Parks that makes AT&T that official wireless provider for Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Resort. We've talked often about the transformation of Wireline from legacy products to advanced IP services, but we are also seeing businesses transform to mobility. AT&T is well positioned to deliver these types of solutions to the business market. Our full ownership of our global IP network and our leading 4G LTE wireless network are a powerful combination when it comes to meeting business customers' needs.

Before we get to cash flow, let me give you a quick update on some of our Project VIP initiatives. Details are on slide 14. Ralph told you about the incredible progress, both quality and coverage, that we are making Wireless. But we are also breaking ground on several Wireline projects as well. Our network upgrades are on track and we expect to boost top U-verse speeds up to 45 megs per second in the next few months, and we are moving toward speeds of 75 megs and 100 megs in the near future.

We have increased our U-verse video consumer locations by about 500,000 year to date. Those locations also include U-verse broadband. We have also added 1.3 million U-verse broadband-only customer locations so far this year. When you add both together, that's nearly 2 million U-verse broadband locations to serve customers. This gives us more than 50 million U-verse broadband customer locations across our Wireline footprint.

We are on track to hit our goal of reaching approximately 75% of our customer locations within our Wireline footprint with wired high-speed broadband by the end of 2015. Our fiber build to multitenant buildings is also underway. We expect to reach approximately 250,000 of our 1 million customer location targets by the end of 2013.

We're just six months into our plan, but as you can see, we're making progress and we are very excited about the growth potential Project VIP brings to AT&T.

Even with our progress on Project VIP plus success-based initiatives, margins continue to be solid. Details are on slide 15. For the second quarter, our consolidated operating margin was 19.1%, an increase from the first quarter but down year-over-year due largely to stronger, actually record, smartphone sales and a higher cost associated with U-verse adds. Wireline margins saw pressure from success-based initiatives in consumer and Project VIP investment costs. Wireline pressure was partially offset by growth in consumer revenues, operational improvements in the network, sales and support functions and solid execution of cost initiatives.

As Project VIP moves ahead, we will continue to look for more opportunity to reduce expenses.

Now let's move to cash flow, which continues to be a solid story for us even as we increase investment in our Project VIP. Our summary is on slide 16. In the first half of the year, cash from operations totaled $17.7 billion, which is up from last year's level. Capital expenditures were $9.8 billion as Project VIP investing starts to ramp, and free cash flow before dividends was $7.9 billion.

In terms of uses of cash, net debt was stable in the second quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 46.6% and a net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.6%, well below our guidance of net debt in the 1.8 range and actually slightly lower than our ratio of 1.68 in the first quarter.

We also completed our second 300 million share repurchase authorization and began buying shares back from the third authorization. However, the pace of buybacks slowed when compared to recent quarters. We repurchased about 89 million shares for $3.3 billion. With our dividend, this makes our total return to shareholders in the second quarter almost $6 billion.

Even with our progress on Project VIP, plus success-based initiatives, margins continue to be solid. Excuse me.

During the quarter, we also took several steps to strengthen our balance sheet. We continue working with the Department of Labor on a plan that would contribute a preferred equity interest at AT&T Mobility to fund our pension plan. We are optimistic on the strategy and expect approval of proposal later this year.

During the quarter, we monetized some of our shares of America Movil stock while keeping our ownership levels roughly the same, about 9%. We continue to keep our focus on a strong financial foundation. Our balance sheet's sound; our debt metrics are solid; our strong cash flow gives us the flexibility to invest in growth initiatives and make strategic investments such as Leap Wireless, while returning substantial value to shareholders through our strong dividends.

Before we take questions, let me close with a quick recap of the quarter on slide 17. The second quarter was a story of growing revenues and growing momentum. Our revenue gains were strong, our cash flows were solid and we continue to grow EPS. The mobile Internet drove strong Wireless results, including strong mobile data revenue growth, growing postpaid ARPUs and our best second-quarter postpaid growth in three years. Plus, our 4G LTE network has been winning praise and recognition for being the nation's fastest and most reliable.

During the quarter, U-verse hit an important milestone when it exceeded more than half of consumer revenues. And Project VIP, we feel the best is yet to come.

Our strong execution this quarter puts us on track to meet our full-year guidance, including revenue growth, EPS, free cash flow and margins, so a solid quarter with strong momentum heading into the back half of the year.

With that, Susan, let's go ahead and take some questions.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you, John. Tony, we will turn it back over to you. We are ready now for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Ralph, if we could start with the net add number, can you help us to break it down a little bit? 500 and something thousand, nearly 400,000 tablets -- if you take out the home phone fixed devices and Digital Life, was there growth in mobile voice postpaid? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: We had a really strong quarter in all aspects. And in fact, we ended up in June with significant gains in smartphone-only growth, not just wireless home phones. So we feel this is one of the best quarters we could have turned in, especially considering the fact that one of our competitors got the iPhone in the same quarter. To turn in the performance that we did when you consider all the factors was a remarkable accomplishment. And we are very pleased with the overall phone growth, not just on smartphones, but feature phones and wireless home phones.

And we shown in the ARPUs that we have given you the fact that, even when you include all those feature phones and wireless home phones, the ARPU is up in a very nice way. And the good thing about wireless home phones, by the way, is that soon there will be wireless home phones and Internet access. In the next few days, you will see us announce that we will be adding data capability, which will add substantial ARPU to wireless home phones. We think that's going to drive significant ARPU growth to the phone-only category in the future.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay, I guess second, if I may, can you just help us a little bit on Digital Life? Just round numbers for that, was that single-digit, double-digit thousands in the quarter? And how should we expect that to ramp through the rest of the year?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: We are not providing that detailed information yet, Phil, but I can tell you that the early responses by customers has been very positive. The ARPU is higher than we had planned. They are adding a lot of video cameras to the services, and with every video camera there's an additional charge.

Customers love the product and net promoter scores are one of the highest that we have ever seen for any product that we have launched. We announced recently that we added six new markets. That brings the total to 33, going to 50 by year end. That platform is brand-new, but it's stable and it's taking all the load that we can give it. And so right now, we are cranking up the sales as we turn up markets by markets. And I'm very confident that our Company-owned retail employees are going to do a bang-up job selling this product. So far, what we have seen is a very nice lift and we are going to continue to increase our advertising spend to promote the product and continue to see it, I think, executed very well in the Company-owned retail stores.

PHIL CUSICK: All right, thanks, Ralph.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTL (AMERICA): Ralph or John, maybe just some thoughts on what your tolerance is for Wireless margin pain. We've seen a lot of announcements for competitors recently. I'm just trying to get a sense, because if you look at the current guidance, you guys are talking about Wireless margin expansion for the full year. Year to date, it's down about 110 basis points. Maybe the upgrade -- the change in upgrade policy could help the fourth quarter. But just trying to think towards the back half of the year, how we should think about the puts and takes.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Michael, let me give it a shot and ask Ralph to join in. Let me give you a couple of push points here that -- reference points to start with.

First of all, the changing upgrade policy will certainly help in the second half of the year. Second, if you will, AT&T Next, our new offering for our customers to upgrade every year, will also help. Third, I think it's something we need to point out is that, as Ralph mentioned, our phone ARPU grew 3% this quarter -- actually, more than 3%. And we actually converted -- we added actually 1.2 million smartphones this quarter, many of those conversions from feature phones which bring higher ARPUs. So we've got a lot of revenue momentum going on in the business.

When you add that to the growth we are getting out of Digital Life, connecting cars, other things like that, one other thing that I will tell you that's really strong, and Ralph mentioned it in his remarks, data usage is growing on a per-device basis over 50%. And so, as that data usage goes up, we are seeing customers buy bigger buckets, bigger tiers of data.

And so all of those things added together give us comfort that we will be able to meet the guidance we gave in January. I think those are the points, if you will, to look to, to say how do we get from where we are at to where we expect to be by the end of the year.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, there's one other point that I wanted to add, because I think it's important that you understand. I mentioned the advances that we have made with our LTE network deployment. What we are finding out is the more we deploy LTE, the lower it costs us to produce a megabyte of data. So the cost structure in the future is something that I think, as we produce more data, it will be cheaper to produce it. We have over 90% of our backbone now being enhanced backbone, which means we typically have Ethernet to the cell side. So it's fiber Ethernet to the cell side with LTE with a radio head on the top of the tower. It's a very, very good architecture, and when we execute it like we are executing it, it has a tendency to make it more efficient in terms of how you run the network, up to 50% more efficient on spectral efficiency as well.

And so we feel really good about the infrastructure costs. In addition to that, you have heard us mention that we started the process of turning down the subscribers on our 2G network in order that we can turn off that network completely by 1/1/17.

So lots of work going on at the infrastructure, some of it being short term, but also long-term as we turn down our 2G network. That will be another source of margin improvement.

MIKE MCCORMACK: And, John, sorry, you mentioned briefly regarding the third quarter initiative to increase U-verse broadband speeds. Is that something you are seeing? We have been hearing a lot about Wi-Fi offloading the home. Are you seeing a huge explosion of usage in the home right now that drives the need to accelerate that program?

JOHN STEPHENS: No. The plan to implement that was really part of Project VIP, and really was just to give a higher quality, continuing to improve the quality of service to our customers. We are seeing continued demand for our U-verse product, and as we mentioned, the 640,000 sales in what is traditionally been a very slow quarter for us, a seasonally slow quarter, and we are over 1.3 million broadband U-verse net adds for the year. So we are continuing to see that demand. This just fits in with that program and with the overall Project VIP strategy.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, makes sense, thanks guys.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Two questions, first for John -- the 1.67 leverage ratio plus the leap day, you are getting up closer to that 1.8 times target. Could you talk about whether that is set in stone or if that could potentially change going forward? And then maybe update us on any possibilities for asset sales going forward. And then I've got a question for Ralph.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure. We are not changing our guidance. We feel really comfortable with the net debt to EBITDA in the 1.8 range, and we're sticking with that. We believe that the cash flows we are generating from the business are going to be able to allow us to successfully manage to that, so we feel good about that.

I won't comment on any particular or specific asset sales, but I will tell you we do have a great collection of assets at the Company and we think it's our responsibility to manage those assets and manage the balance sheet. We believe that that management includes putting focus on working capital, which we've done; lowering our borrowing costs, which we've done; and monetizing the assets is appropriate when we can do that. I think you saw us do that in the second quarter with the cash proceeds we received for our Yellow Pages and for America Mobil shares. And in both cases, we effectively retained the same ownership we had before we generated that cash.

So we're going to continue that focus. But with that, and with that balance sheet that we have and the cash flows we have, we feel real good about sticking with our net debt to EBITDA in the 1.8 range.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Got it. And then, Ralph, while we have you, if you can talk a little bit about the Leap transaction, maybe the main drivers behind the transaction, and then if you could clarify the prepaid strategy. Now, it looks like you are going to have two brands going forward. How aggressive should we expect you to be in that market, and what the go-forward strategy is there?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, the rationale behind the Leap transaction is basically to accelerate our entry into the prepaid segment, much more so than we would have been able to do by ourselves. We plan to keep the Cricket brand and the distribution, and I think that will ignite our growth into all aspects of the prepaid segment that I think has some really nice growth opportunities for us.

So that is our strategy. We will keep the prepaid branded that Leap brings with it, Cricket. We think it's a good brand and we will leverage the distribution, and that will fuel our entry into a nationwide prepaid offering.

JOHN STEPHENS: John, I will tell you, let me add to what Ralph said is that I think what you will see is we are going to bring more competition and we are going to bring more choices to customers. And as a combination of Leap and our resources, we will bring an acceleration and a further deployment of that offering into that segment than either one of us could have done on a standalone basis.

So I think this will be very good for the competition in the prepaid segment, and we are really excited about the opportunity it provides us.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon, a couple of questions, Ralph. First, the 50% usage per smartphone device -- that's pretty impressive. Can you decompose that into the change from people going to 3G to 4G? Is that a big part of the growth; and then what's the 3G-on-3G, or 4G-on-4G growth is?

And then, as you see more Androids in the mix, are you seeing a lower per-device subsidy cost or a lower purchasing price for AT&T, either now; or, is there some hope that you will be able to bring either subsidies or device purchase prices down going forward and lowering your equipment subsidy?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes. Simon, I was really pleased to see the Android sales, and they do carry a lower subsidy than some of the other phones we carry. We are seeing some nice opportunities as well coming up in the Windows Phone line with the Lumia 1020. That's a great device that I think is going to help to drive sales of Windows phones. So we are really, really pleased with the diversity of the portfolio that's increasingly more diverse almost every quarter that goes by.

Now, the thing about the usage -- I think this is really a great highlight that I want to make sure everybody gets. What we are seeing when we move customers from HSPA networks to LTE, we see a significant increase in the usage of data. We also see them buy larger buckets of data. So more usage, buying bigger buckets and, guess what? The net promoter scores on our LTE network are much higher.

So happy customers are buying more of our product and are buying it in bigger quantities, and I think that is what I see driving it. And we're just getting started. What I love about the LTE network that we have built is it's giving great service, but at the same time that that network is performing as good as any network, I think, on the planet right now, the more customers and usage that we move to the LTE network, the better that the HPA network performs.

So as a result, we are winning in market after market where we deploy LTE. We are winning not just the fastest and most reliable 4G LTE networks; we are winning on voice reliability, text reliability and data reliability.

So I feel really good that we have prospects to continue to grow usage and to get customers to buy bigger buckets in the future.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barton, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: So two questions, if I could -- just the first one, strategic services had one of its strongest quarters that it's had in a really long time. I think you guys added maybe annualized $500 million of revenues this quarter in that segment. Could you talk about some of the drivers and whether those are going to continue and whether we could look for that growth out of that segment for the rest of the year?

And then the second question would be, obviously we've talked a little bit already on the call about the changing nature of competition as we look in the back half of the year. Verizon, for its part, is suggesting that they think they cannot just keep share but take share as they increase postpaid subscribers in the second half of the year. Obviously, Sprint and T-Mobile have their ambitions. Could you map out what is AT&T's position on balancing market share margin? What should we be expecting from AT&T as an objective function for the business? You don't have to tell us strategy, but what are you going to be managing this business to in the second half of the year? It would be helpful.

JOHN STEPHENS: That's great, thanks, Dave. Let me take a shot at it and I'll ask Ralph to join in. First and foremost, on the strategic services, we are just seeing that there's an acceptance across the business for VPN, Ethernet, hosting and those high-quality IP services. We are specifically seeing an improvement in our small business high-speed broadband. I think we noted in our presentation that they were 81,000 -- that's a quarterly record for us, that our small business customers took. So even in a difficult economic situation and in a difficult and a challenged economic segment, we are seeing customers willing to upgrade to higher-quality speeds.

With that, we also have an all-out focus of our sales team on our sales effort on strategic services. They are really performing well.

And last thing I will tell you that, with Project VIP, we are really now beginning to address the opportunities in buildings which we are now taking fiber to and selling into those customer locations as we start that build process and we start making progress.

So it's all of those things, David. But in summary, it's a real focus and it's an acceptance by customers of the value of those strategic services, even in some of the challenged spaces of the business segment.

Specifically with regard to Wireless, as we have shown this quarter, we are going to compete. We are generating good margins. We are going to improve those margins in the second half of the year, but we are going to be able to compete.

I will give you one just simple point. In this quarter, where a new competitor got the iPhone, on a sequential basis our churn is down. So I think we need to put it in that focus -- our churn is down even in this quarter where a new competitor comes in, and even with all the new offerings that we are putting forth.

So we will be ready to compete. We are going to be smart about it. We are going to be customer-focused about it and, quite frankly, we believe that our network superiority is going to lead us to be able to perform very well in the second half of the year and, quite frankly, for years to come.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Dave, I would like to add a couple of views here. First, let me speak about the postpaid segment. I don't think we have ever been better positioned in the postpaid segment than we are today, and that's basically driven by the network performance that is the best that it has ever been, winning awards right and left and just providing outstanding performance. And as the LTE network gets all those awards, as we move customers there, the HSPA network gets better. And so from a network perspective, which is a key driver of churn, I don't think we have ever been better positioned. Our network team has done a great job, and you can see dramatic improvements in dropped calls. It's just a great, great story.

In addition to that, we continue to find ways to differentiate on devices. We just are about to roll out the Nokia Lumia 1020, which I think is an exceptional device. We also launched earlier this year the Samsung Active, which we call our whatever-proof phone, and so great network, great devices and great service differentiates us at the postpaid segment.

In the prepaid segment, I mentioned that our GoPhone sales were on the rise, and that's as a result of an upgrade in the platform that now finally allows us to sale LTE devices on the GoPhone platform. And those sales are doing very well as we populate the GoPhone family with state-of-the-art devices that, prior to this, we couldn't return on GoPhone. So GoPhone sales are doing very well. Our prepaid service that we recently launched is doing well.

And now with Leap and the Leap acquisition, I don't think we have ever been better positioned on the prepaid segment. So I like our positioning for the second half of this year better than almost any second half that I have faced in recent history. And, in addition to all of this, as we move our data growth into LTE, it's improving our cost structure and we feel good about that.

So I think, as you look out, we are really in the best shape that we have been heading into a second half that I have seen for a while.

DAVID BARDEN: That's great, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple questions. Maybe first on handset trade-ins, which are obviously set to be a little bit bigger part of the model going forward, I think, John, you talked about Next helping wireless margins. Maybe if you could offer some more context around this, maybe a framework for volumes you would expect here and what you can make on a resale or refurb device from a margin perspective.

And then second question -- Verizon, I think, talked about promotions at third-party distribution channels negatively impacting wireless margins in the quarter. I'm just wondering if you saw something similar to this that you'd call out.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me try that next question and ask Ralph to join in. The way I view it is simply this. In the marketplace the last few years, there have been high-quality used phones that neither the customer nor the provider, the transport provider, have taken advantage of their value. So when someone comes in to get a new phone, they often go in the drawer. They may be handed down, but they don't necessarily capture the value.

What Next allows the customer to do is, by bringing that phone in, that high-quality phone that still has some value, giving it to us, it lowers their cost to getting a new phone every 12 months. So they get value for it, and then we have a network of capabilities, whether to use it in our refurbishing, in our insurance business; whether we resell it to a wholesaler or whether we resell it in our stores.

So we are able to capture that value. Up to this program, it hasn't been a captured value. And as you well know, those phones -- many of the phones could have a $200 or $250 value. That's what makes this project work. That makes this offering work for both the customers and for us.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Jason, there were some new ones that we did that really drove up the volume of trade-ins something like 500% to 600% compared to the prior period. And the key was for customers to realize that they didn't have to worry about what they were going to get for the handset. If they brought us a handset that was within three years old in good working condition, then we would give them $100 off. All of a sudden, they didn't have to worry about going in, checking what it was worth. We would guarantee them that price. And we actually took the risk in what the value of that trade-in would be.

As it turns out, when they actually started trading them in, the value of the phone that they were trading in was much higher than what we had anticipated we were going to get. And so it was good for the customer. It assured them that they could get a certain amount for it. And for us, it turned out to be a good strategy.

In addition to that, Jason, when we laid out our AT&T Next program, we knew that in order for that program to work well, we had to have a very good trade-in program. So the trade-in program preceded AT&T next, and appropriately so, so we could get customers educated on the value of the trade-in, so we could get our reps to process it. And now it's part of the AT&T Next program, and I think it's going to hit with all cylinders firing as we have really educated the customers and our reps on how to process and do trade-ins.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great, and then on the third-party --

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Oh, I'm sorry. On the third-party distribution, yes, we did see some upgrade activity through third-party distribution. That's usually a little bit more expensive, but I would say that that wasn't the big driver for us. It was essentially the volume of upgrades that were done in the quarter that drove the pressure and the margins that you saw.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, that's helpful, thank you.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Ralph, I actually just wanted to follow up on some of the discussions around your recent promotion plans. While I recognize it's still early stages, how successful have these plans been in helping to manage equipment costs and ultimately fuel your belief in hitting your margin expansion target for the back half of the year? I'm thinking about the extension of the upgrade cycle here. I guess we're just trying to understand the different drivers here, given your comfort in your guidance.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Well, before we introduced AT&T Next, we did a lot of customer research, and there was overwhelming support for a program just like the one that we have launched. We actually launch the program early in a couple of markets, and the response has been good. We are feeling real positive about the impact that this could have both on customers and our financials, and so we are proceeding full speed ahead.

But I think the key with the program, as we heard from customers, is that they essentially wanted to upgrade their phones in a yearly cycle, which is typically when they get refreshed, and they wanted to do it with minimal outlay. And the fact that we can do that now for zero down, no upgrade fees, no activation fees and no finance fees means that you can actually walk out the door with a Lumia 1020 device with a 41-megapixel camera, the best of the best in camera technology, with zero money down, and a very reasonable payment.

So I think that that is what gets me excited, knowing that we can put that kind of technology in the hands of people and that they will enjoy it. But part of the process, Amir, was to get a trade-in program that was workable, and we have done that already as a result of the promotions that we have launched. And, by the way, because of our large base of iPhones, we stand to gain the most because the value of those smartphones is the highest.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: That's very helpful, thank you. And then, John, just a question on your capital deployment strategy. You mentioned that your plan is to be opportunistic on your buyback going forward. Clearly, you are focused on finishing the Leap deal. Where could we see other areas of capital deployment in the near to midterm? Or perhaps, I guess the way to look at it is, what are your strategic priorities for capital deployment here?

JOHN STEPHENS: Clearly, our strategic priorities -- there are two things in the short-term areas, is finishing off our Project VIP for the rest of this year, which includes our LTE and additional U-verse and fiber to the building builds, all those aspects of VIP; and, secondly, being prepared to close the deals we have in place before the FCC with regard to some of the spectrum deals, whether it be tuck-in, or whether it be the 700-B spectrum deals; and then, third, to have all of that done where we are still -- can very easily -- which is something we are very confident we can accomplish -- close the Leap deal whenever that becomes available.

So those are our priorities, if you will. I've said this before and I will say it on this call. Our dividend is clearly a sacred matter for us. We clearly understand as managers of AT&T the importance of our dividends to our shareholders. That's never a question. It's what we do after we've taken those -- satisfied those responsibilities. But those are the order of things.

And with our strong cash flows, we will continue to have opportunities to buy back shares. We will just be opportunistic as we go through that.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great, thank you very much for the incremental color.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I had two questions. First, John, it seems like the underlying strength in the quarter is really somewhat driven by the improvements in networks, both Wireless and here on wireline. Would you maybe think about accelerating velocity or extending velocity out a little further to maybe upgrade the networks a little bit more, given what we are seeing is really a great quarter in terms of acceleration in growth and in volumes? And then I had a follow-up for Ralph.

JOHN STEPHENS: Sure, Tim. I agree with you; the performance of our network team in both Wireless and Wireline has been exceptional. And providing good quality service to our customers is always key to success.

With that being said, we are in a position from our balance sheet to fund things on an opportunistic basis and as we can get them done efficiently. I think that's what you saw in the second quarter with our CapEx, stepping up to the near-$5.5 billion range, about $900 million higher than last year and higher than the first quarter. We spent that money at this time because the network team could get more done and efficiently get it done. So we wanted to make sure we funded that, and we'll stick to that philosophy.

With that being said, I still believe we are going to be in the $21 billion range for our CapEx for this year. I think the network team has continued to outperform all aspects of their LTE build. We had originally targeted $150 million for last year, and we finished near $175 million. I think Ralph mentioned today that we are at $225 million and feel very comfortable that we are going to be near $270 million by the end of this year. And we are expecting to substantially complete the whole build by the middle of next year. So we are doing exactly what you're suggesting in the Wireless space.

In the Wireline space, we are going through the same process. So we are not afraid to go faster. We are just going to do it prudently and we are going to do it efficiently. So let me ask you for your next question for Ralph.

TIMOTHY HORAN: Thanks, Ralph, just sort of two small ones. But have you seen a slow down at all in the iPhone impact that T-Mobile has had on you? It usually lasts about a quarter or so, or when do you expect it to hit?

And then secondly, on Wireless data, are customers are starting to bump up against their caps in a way that might, with the pricing, lead to maybe some inelasticity? Are you worried about that all or seeing that all?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: First, on the iPhone impact we have seen what, in terms of T-Mobile and them getting the iPhone, the same impact that we saw when Sprint got the iPhone and when Verizon got the iPhone. There's usually a spike in the port-outs in the time frame that they get the iPhone, and then it comes back down.

Quite frankly, the spike that we have seen from T-Mobile getting the iPhone is significantly less than the spikes that we saw with Sprint and the spikes that we saw with Verizon. And my expectations is that they will continue to come down over time, and so that's where we stand today.

In terms of Wireless data and people hitting the caps or bumping against them, we are not seeing a lot of that. What we are seeing, which was part of our strategy all along, Tim, is we know that there's an explosion going on with tablets. And our firm belief all the time was we needed to get mobile share out in the marketplace so customers could easily add a tablet. And at the time they add the tablet, then they increase the size of the data bucket. That's exactly what is happening.

So as customers add tablets, they are being smart enough to add or to increase the size of the data bucket. And so we are not seeing anything at this point that gives me concern, especially from a customer satisfaction point of view in terms of usage. Our customers are being smart. They can monitor the usage now more than ever before, and they are being cautious to make sure they don't have overages.

So I really think that this is huge for us, and that's why you saw the emphasis that we have on getting tablets. Those tablets are getting added to the network; data usage is going up, and the size of data buckets is on the rise as well.

JOHN STEPHENS: To add to that, Tim; as Ralph had mentioned, 80% of the customers we have on tiered data programs, 80% of them are picking the higher-tiered buckets of data. So they are buying up, and we are pleased with our Mobile Share, where over 25% are buying the 10-gig bucket.

So it is working out just as Ralph mentioned, where those customers are buying those bigger buckets and generating that revenue, which is generating our service revenue growth and allowing us to continue to have great ARPU growth on our phones.

TIMOTHY HORAN: Very helpful.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a couple clarifications, and then maybe one higher-level question. First, is it possible to break out the dilution that you are seeing from VIP from an operating perspective, both for the second quarter and for the full year 2013?

And the second clarification is, last quarter you talked a lot about the impact of USF on the revenue, and I was wondering if you could give us an update. Was that also a headwind in the quarter, or was there any help from USF; just maybe directionally how that changed from the first quarter to the second quarter?

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, this is John; let me take the second question first, and that is the out of balance a situation with USF rates, those rates being different from last year to this year -- the same situation occurred in the second quarter at about the same level, at about the same amounts in the same relationship as it did in the first quarter. And so our numbers that we reported to you are overcoming that pressure, both on the Wireless side, in the Wireless ARPUs, and also in the Wireline side for both business and consumer.

So there's no change in that situation. We have overcome it in these numbers that are being reported.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: And then on VIP?

JOHN STEPHENS: On the breakout, we don't do that, Mike. But let me say it to you this way. If you look at our CapEx spend on a year-over-year basis for the quarter and on a sequential basis for the quarter, it's about $900 million in both cases increased. We don't give a trailing expense impact on our capital, but I will tell you that even our construction projects have some level of trailing expense. And then, quite frankly, our software projects have a much higher level of trailing expense.

The pressure for the quarter really relates to what I would view it as that $900 million increase times whatever percentage you'd apply to it. I would suggest to you that numbers could vary in anywhere from 10% to 20% to 25%. We are not going to get into what ours are specifically, but I don't think in the industry those kinds of percentages would be unusual. I will leave it to you guys to determine your own.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: And then just one higher-level question on the Wireline business and, also, this would apply to the enterprise business. So you've talked about in the second quarter that you stepped over that line where you had sequential growth, albeit still down year-over-year. And I feel like if you go back historically, we have crossed that line into positive sequential before, but we have been brought back to that negative territory for a variety of factors from time to time, whether it was USF, whether it was the legacy parts of the business. In addition to your comments on the strategic services, are there aspects of what you are seeing in the legacy, or other aspects of your portfolio that make you believe that the step over to positive sequential growth could be more sustainable on a one- or a two-year basis?

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me give you two different perspectives on that. One, on our consumer business, that's now greater than 50% U-verse, that is growing nearly on the consumer U-verse piece nearly just below 30%, I think the math will show you that when you've got now more than half of the business growing at somewhere between 25% and 30%, it's a more sustainable situation than it was a year ago or two years ago when that was -- the percentage of the business was 40% or maybe a third. So the math is different with regard to consumer because that base is so much bigger and so much bigger piece.

On the business side, I agree with you; the economy has given us challenges. We are pleased that we have gotten our strategic business services up to nearly 25% of our business revenues, but the economy is still uncertain, such that we are not in that same point. And that is why we mentioned that we were slightly positive on a sequential basis, and we will have to see how this plays out the rest of the year. The one encouraging piece there is what we mentioned in small business and how well our team has done in beginning to put U-verse or high-speed broadband into our small business space and the 80,000 high-speed broadband net adds they had this quarter. And we are optimistic about what we can do with that going forward. Particularly when you look at our trend, that's the highest quarter we've had on record and significantly better than the first quarter or the fourth quarter of last year.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Tony, I think we've got time for just one more quick question.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, New Street Research.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, NEW STREET RESEARCH: Two quick questions, if I may. First of all, could you -- you may have mentioned this earlier, but I didn't hear it -- give us the number of iPhone sales in the quarter? And secondly, just --

JOHN STEPHENS: John, just so you know, we are not disclosing that number. I think we disclosed the total number in our slide presentation of smartphone sales, the 6.8 million, and I think we disclose that we had a record Android sales. But we are not giving the specific iPhone number.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Got it, okay. And then could you give us a little bit more detail, John, just around the synergies that you expect from the Leap deal and how quickly you expect to be able to realize those?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, let me say this, Jonathan. We will get into synergies and realizations and all of the normal impacts that we discuss as we get the deal closed. So we are not going to be in a position to talk about those now.

We do -- we are confident, we are expecting that the transaction's going to get closed after the government carries out its responsibilities and does a fair review. I will tell you; we are looking forward to getting this done. We believe that Leap is going to provide us the opportunity to expand services to customers in a segment of the mobility market that is now underserved. So we are excited about it. We believe it's going to be a positive, but we are going to wait and let the DOJ and the SEC go through their normal review process.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Got it. Thanks, John, thanks for taking the questions.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, let me close now. I want to thank you for being with us this afternoon. We have delivered a solid quarter with strong subscriber gains, growing revenues and improving networks. At this time, we are going to continue to invest in our business with our Project VIP, and we believe it is on pace to provide us even more opportunity going forward.

With that being said, we think this gives us strong momentum as we head into the second half of this year and into the years to come. So we are very excited about where we are at in our business; we believe our plans are playing out well, and we look forward to talking to you in the future.

Thank you very much for being on the call, and as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good evening.

OPERATOR: Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's executive teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130730e97n006k5
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,901 words
   PD
23 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T first-quarter earnings release 2013 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). Also, as a reminder, this teleconference is being recorded.

   TD
At this time, I will turn the conference call over to your host, Ms. Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Tony. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our first-quarter conference call. It is great to have you with us today. I am Susan Johnson, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

John will provide an update with perspectives on the quarter; then we will follow up with questions. Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is www.ATT.com\investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 2. This presentation and comments may include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks. Results may differ materially. Details are on our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

Now, before I turn the call over to John, let me quickly cover our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 3. Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.67. That is up more than 11% over last year's first quarter. Our results this quarter include about a $0.03 help from an income tax settlement. When you exclude this, earnings per share were $0.64, or about an 8.5% increase over last year's adjusted first-quarter EPS of $0.59, which is adjusted to exclude our divested Ad Solutions unit.

Consolidated revenues excluding Ad Solutions were up 0.9% year over year, thanks to solid revenue growth in Wireless, continued gains in U-verse Services and growth in Strategic Business Services. Revenues were impacted somewhat by lower regulatory fees this quarter. When you normalize for the difference in these charges, consolidated revenue would have grown 1.3%.

Consolidated margins were down slightly year over year, primarily due to Wireline pressure. Cash flows started the year strong. Cash from operating activities for the quarter totaled $8.2 billion and free cash flow was $3.9 billion. And we continued buying back shares as part of our repurchase program. In the first quarter, we bought back 168 million shares for $5.9 billion.

With that overview, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Susan, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for being with us today and, as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T.

Before we get to the detailed results, let's start with a quick overview. Highlights are on slide 4. First, we had a solid start to the year. Earnings per share growth was strong. Adjusted consolidated revenues increased, and cash flow continues to be a success story for us.

We added more than 2 million IP broadband connections in the quarter, when you combine both Wireless and Wireline connections. In Wireless, it is all about the mobile Internet. Data growth was strong. Smartphone sales set another first-quarter record. Tablets drove postpaid growth with an exceptional quarter. And customers continue to flock to our mobile share plans, making it easier than ever to add new devices and drive further growth. This resulted in improved revenues, better margins, postpaid ARPU growth and lower churn.

In Wireline, U-verse continues to shine. We had our best-ever U-verse high-speed Internet sales in the first quarter. This drove positive broadband growth. In fact, we had our best total Wireline broadband growth in nine quarters.

U-verse video sales also were strong, as we added more subscribers than we have in any quarter over the last two years. So the team is executing at a high level and we have the right strategy. Our financial results are solid, our capital structure sound. All in all, a solid start to the new year.

Before we move to operational results, I would like to give you a quick update on Project Velocity or Project VIP. Details are on the slide 5. It is still early, but we already have made tremendous progress with our LTE deployment. We are running ahead of schedule, with nearly 200 million LTE POPs covered to date. And we expect to complete nearly 90% of our 300 million POP LTE buildout by the end of this year.

The LTE network also is operating at high levels. First, our LTE network is the fastest in the nation, as supported by an independent third-party testing group. Then on Wireless network performance, including call, text, and data, RootMetrics ranked AT&T number one or tied for number one in 14 of the 23 markets they have surveyed so far this year. And this comes on top of ranking first or tied for first in more than 70% of the markets RootMetrics surveyed in the second half of last year where we had deployed LTE.

Our U-verse VIP deployments will begin rolling out later this year. But the incredible first quarter U-verse results add to our confidence in making this a larger part of our growth strategy.

We had record-high speed IP broadband net adds, along with increasing U-verse video gains. We continue to gain market share in areas where we offer U-verse and Project VIP expands those areas even more.

The same holds true with our Strategic Business Service revenue growth and our fiber build to business. Even in uncertain economic times, we are seeing growing demand for high-speed connectivity and our advanced data services. These results once again show that Project VIP is working and the right strategy for AT&T.

Now, let's move to our operational results, starting with Wireless, where we had another solid quarter thanks to continued growth of the mobile Internet. Revenue and ARPU are on slide 6.

Mobile data continues to surge. Revenues were up 21% in the quarter. That helped drive 3.4% service revenue growth. And total Wireless revenues were up 3.4%.

You will recall that we adjusted the way we book our data revenues, which no longer include text messaging. And as you can see this quarter, mobile data continues to surge. It is now a $20 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at 21%.

You also can see the impact of data growth when you look at postpaid ARPU. Data ARPU grew 18% and total postpaid phone-only ARPU was up 2%. Total postpaid ARPU, which includes high-margin but lower ARPU tablets and other non-phone devices, also grew in the quarter, up about 1%.

Our postpaid smartphone base also continues to expand. Those details are on slide 7. Smartphone subscribers increased by more than 1.2 million in the quarter and by more than 7 million in the last 12 months. Overall, smartphones now make up more than 70% of our postpaid phone base, and smartphones accounted for nearly 90% of postpaid sales in the quarter, giving us even more room for smartphone growth.

These are the premium subscribers in our business. They have twice the ARPU of non-smartphone subscribers and much lower churn. So their conversion brings additional revenue.

Another new first-quarter smartphone sales record of 6 million helped drive that growth. We had 4.8 million iPhone activations in the quarter, while our upgrade rate was steady when compared to the last year's levels.

The number of postpaid subscribers on usage-based data plans also continues to grow. Overall, almost 70% of our smartphone base has moved to usage-based plans. Mobile share plans continue to be popular. By the end of the first quarter, mobile share accounts reached 3.3 million. These accounts include about 10 million subscribers or devices, such as smartphones and tablets.

This growth is even more impressive when you remember that we give customers a choice when picking a data plan, allowing them to pick the one that works best for them.

At the same time, take rates on the higher mobile share data plans, those that are 10 gigabits or higher, continue to run above expectations, with more than a quarter of mobile share accounts on those plans. And we continue to see a steady movement of subscribers on unlimited plans taking advantage of mobile share. More than 15% of subscribers have moved over from unlimited plans, or about 1 million subscribers to date.

During the quarter, we introduced larger mobile share plans targeting businesses, as well as consumers who need more data. These plans offer up to 50 gigabits per month and provide an attractive revenue yield.

We also see the impact of the mobile Internet on our postpaid net adds. Details are on slide eight. We had strong gains in tablets. This new growth area drove postpaid growth of almost 300,000 postpaid subscribers in the quarter. We also had another solid quarter with our connected devices, adding 431,000 subscribers, primarily with security and tracking devices.

Reseller and prepaid impacted our overall net adds. Reseller had a net loss this quarter, primarily due to resellers rationalizing their no- or low-usage accounts. These disconnects had a negative impact of more than 600,000 on reseller subscriber net adds in the quarter and on total subscriber net adds in the quarter. Although the reseller volumes involved were significant, it had little impact on revenue. In fact, our reseller revenue is up more than 50% year over year.

Prepaid sales continue to be impacted by declines in session-based tablets.

We do see some changes across the mobile marketplace. As always, we continue to evaluate and look for opportunities that take advantage of our network, including new product offerings, funneling opportunities and alternative forms of distribution.

But we also continue to see improvements in churn. Postpaid churn had another strong quarter, down year over year and sequentially. And we had our best-ever first-quarter smartphone churn, which was less than 1%.

We did have a policy change with regard to third-party retailers that had a small impact on churn, but with or without that change, we saw a reduction in churn and we continue to see year-over-year improvements in postpaid churn.

Now let's take a look at Wireless margins on slide 9. Our Wireless margin story continues a trend we have seen in recent quarters. Smartphone sales continue to be strong, but even with increased sales, margins are expanding. The story is no different this quarter. We set a first-quarter record of 6 million smartphone sales; yet our wireless EBITDA service margin was 90 basis points higher when compared to the first quarter of 2012, or 43.2%. Smartphone subscribers continue to be a wise investment. You know the long-term value they bring -- higher ARPU, lower churn, strong data growth, driving growth in operating income, which was up more than 4% year over year. We really feel good about our Wireless position. Revenues continue to grow with expanding margins. The mobile Internet continues to bring strong data growth, with more and more subscribers on usage-based data plans.

Customers continue to embrace our mobile share plans, helping drive tablet growth. And our LTE deployment is ahead of schedule and winning praise as the fastest in the industry. So all in all, a really solid Wireless performance that sets the stage for a strong year in 2013 and beyond.

Now let's look at our Wireline operations, starting with Consumer, which you can see on slide 10. Once again, we had another impressive U-verse performance with accelerating subscriber gains. The growth of our high-speed IP broadband has been nothing short of dramatic. We added more IP broadband subscribers this quarter than ever before, more than 730,000, which helped drive our best total broadband net adds in two years. IP broadband now makes up more than half of our total broadband base, with an ARPU growing at more than 9% year over year. Plus, we are gaining share against our competition.

U-verse TV also had a great quarter. We added 232,000 U-verse video customers, our best showing in nine quarters. These gains helped drive overall consumer revenue growth of 2%. Adjusted for changes in regulatory fees, it would have been nearly 2.5%, with U-verse revenues up more than 30% in the quarter off an ever-increasing base.

So once again, another solid quarter in Consumer, and we see more opportunity for growth with our increasing U-verse penetration and planned Project VIP expansions.

Now let's move to Wireline business, which you can see on slide 11. When you look at the three major components of Wireline business, you are seeing a similar story that we have talked about in prior quarters. The continued drop in small business starts is still pressuring that part of the revenue stream. Wholesale and government solutions continue to be challenged, and our Enterprise revenues, after showing some positive signs last year, were challenged in the first quarter. Combined, Business revenue was down sequentially and year over year, pressured somewhat by regulatory fees. Adjusting for those fees, total Business revenue was down 2.7%.

One bright spot was the strong growth in Strategic Business Services. Those are products that are part of our Project Velocity investments, including VPN, Ethernet, hosting and other advanced IP services. These were up 10.8%, even in a very difficult economic environment.

Expenses were down year over year to help offset some of the revenue decline, but uncertainty with the economy continues to be the issue. Customers are delaying buying decisions. Unemployment improvement continues to lag. The business overhang from regulatory uncertainty persists. And government budget issues are all having an impact on our customers and on our results.

But the most challenging aspect for us is trying to forecast the future in this environment. Like others, we are looking for consistent signs of improvement.

One thing that is not faltering in our confidence in the future is that it will be driven by high-bandwidth connectivity, mobility and the cloud. Nobody is positioned better to take advantage of these opportunities once the uncertainty passes and the economy turns. Let me give you more detail on slide 12.

AT&T is a recognized leader in solutions for hosting and cloud services. We offer network-centric, integrated solutions that provide value to customers on a global basis. The foundation for our cloud services is having one of the world's most powerful and advanced global MPLS networks that spans 187 countries. We operate 38 data centers that are fully integrated with that network, providing top-of-the-line security, reliability and management.

We see a future where our Wireline network assets and mobility come together in the cloud that will mobilize workforces to access business information in a secure environment. AT&T's expertise in this area has been recognized recently by industry analyst Gartner, who gave the Company the highest rating for important capabilities for network services. We have the network, the right tools and the right products to win in the fast-developing cloud market, and we are best positioned to take advantage of the growing opportunities in this space.

Now, let's look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 13. For the first quarter, consolidated margin was 18.9%, down slightly from the year-ago first quarter. Wireless margin expansion offset Wireline pressure; however, expenses from corporate and new business initiatives did impact overall margins.

In Wireline, pressure from Business as well as success-based expenses in Consumer drove operating margins down slightly. Helping offset this pressure were growth in Consumer revenues, operational improvements and solid execution of our One AT&T cost initiatives. We continue to expect consolidated margins to be stable this year, with growth in Wireless offset by pressure at our investments in our Wireline business.

Now, let's move to cash flow, which continues to be a very good story for us. Our summary is on slide 14. In the first quarter, cash from operations totaled $8.2 billion. Capital expenditures were $4.3 billion, with more than half of that invested in the Wireless business, which gives us free cash flow before dividends of $3.9 billion, more than $300 million improvement over last year's first quarter.

Our CapEx expectations continue to be in the $21 billion range as we ramp Project VIP throughout this year. However, we are adjusting our longer-term capital spending expectations. We now expect capital spending to be in the $20 billion range for both 2014 and 2015. That is down from the $22 billion level we expected when we announced Project VIP last November.

This reduction brings no slowdown in our Project VIP deployment. As we have refined our VIP planning, we are seeing greater integration efficiencies in our spending curves. Our LTE build is accelerating into this year's spending. That, along with additional savings in non-Project VIP spending, gives us confidence to revise our expectations without changing our overall build targets.

Post Project VIP, we expect capital spending to take a step down to more normal levels.

Moving to dividends, payments for the quarter totaled $2.5 billion and we repurchased 168 million shares for $5.9 billion. This makes our total return to shareholders in the first quarter more than $8 billion and more than $30 billion in the last five quarters. Plus, as we announced last month, the AT&T Board approved an additional $300 million repurchase authorization. The Company expects to make future repurchase decisions opportunistically, which will likely slow the pace of buybacks compared to recent activity.

In terms of uses of cash, total debt was up in the first quarter as we took advantage of historic low interest rates with a debt-to-capital ratio of about 46%, and a net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.68, well within our guidance in the 1.8 range or lower.

We also continue working with the Department of Labor on a plan that would contribute a preferred interest in our AT&T Mobility to fund our pension plans. We continue to be optimistic on the strategy and expect approval of this proposal in 2013.

So all in all, another solid financial performance. Our balance sheet is sound, our debt metrics solid and our strong cash flow gives us the flexibility to invest in growth initiatives while returning value to shareholders.

Now, before we take questions, let me close with a quick recap on slide 15. We are off to a good start to the year, and what gives us a lot of confidence looking ahead is that we have built a very strong foundation for growth for 2013 and beyond.

Our spectrum position is solid. We are tracking ahead of schedule with our LTE deployment. Our 4G LTE network is the nation's fastest and winning quality awards across the country. Our capital spending is more effective and efficient than we originally expected.

The churn is down and ARPUs are up, and our smartphone and tablet gains continue to be very strong. The number of subscribers we have on usage-based plans is climbing fast. And on top of this, we had one of our best U-verse quarters ever, and that is before our Project VIP Wireline expansion really starts to ramp, which we expect will only make all of these things stronger as we move into the second half of 2013 and beyond.

So, we feel good about the foundation we have built. We feel good about the momentum we have. We are positioned to grow, even in this slow economy. And we are well-positioned to continue returning substantial value to shareholders.

With that, Susan, let's go ahead and take some questions.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you, John. Tony, we will now open up the call for our question-and-answer session.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you very much. (Operator Instructions). Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks and good afternoon. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the business revenue in more detail, in terms of implied erosion of legacy services relative to Strategic. Is that being hurt by the cyclical as well as the secular? And is that something that continues at this rate, or do you see some improvement coming over the next 12 to 24 months in that segment? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So good afternoon, Mike. Real quickly, if you break down the three segments, so to speak, of our business revenues, into the small-business side, we are encouraged by the acceptance of high-speed broadband, U-verse type products. But the business is still challenged by a lack of starts.

We are seeing some positive improvement in our wholesale business, but in our government and education and medical are still being really challenged by the economy and by funding. And enterprise is continuing to be challenged by uncertainty and, if you will, delaying decisions, even though they are spending on speed and advanced data services.

When we look at the overall Business Services, Mike, I would think about it this way. It is hard to predict until we get some economic clarity. Because while unemployment or regulatory concerns or government spending may be affecting us, as an individual company separately, in different ways, it is definitely affecting our customers. And until we get some clarity on that, it is hard to predict.

But what we do feel good about is the position we are in when it turns, because we can provide that combination of integrated services like no other. Hopefully, that is -- I have answered your question, Mike.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good afternoon, John. You had very good U-verse numbers. Can you talk about what was driving that specifically? It doesn't sound like your footprint has expanded dramatically. That is going to be later on. Was it promotional activity? I see you have got a few new offers out there. And do you think that this is sort of a new kind of turning the corner as the DSL base becomes lower?

And then given your sort of leverage is moving up towards your 1.8, what is the latest thinking around potential for asset sales or other monetizations? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Simon. And quite frankly, on our U-verse positive developments, both in Small Business and in Consumer, I would tell you that the simple answer is really, really quality execution by our people and their teams. Certainly, there were some promotions, certainly there was good opportunities that presented itself from existing assets. But I will tell you, they focused on reducing churn, they focused on shortening installation times, they focused on converting customers from legacy DSL services to the high-speed U-verse services. It was really a whole collection of really quality execution by the team. So I think that is what really drove it.

As you can see, we still drove revenue growth and we still are getting very good revenues on our triple play on the Consumer side. So it wasn't just incentive-driven; it was really performance.

With regard to our balance sheet and our wherewithal, I guess the first item I would point out to you, Simon, with regard to your second question is, as we have shown, we have got a great balance sheet, very strong, strong cash flows, very great coverage of all of our responsibilities. So we feel good about where we are at.

Clearly aware of what is going on in the industry with regard to monetization strategies. We have a responsibility to look at all of those because we are here to monetize and maximize value for our shareholders. But with the strength of our balance sheet, we can be careful and prudent with regard to taking those steps and are not necessarily in a position where we need to do any of that.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Philip Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHILIP CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys, thanks. I am thinking about the revenue guidance that you have talked about in Wireless for mid single digits long-term. And I am struggling to figure out -- and it sort of goes into subscriber and ARPU side. As more of the subscribers come from tablets, and assuming Digital Life launches fairly soon -- and we would love an update there -- ARPU is slowing down, you did 3.5% revenue growth in Wireless this quarter. Can that be sustained given sort of where, one, the industry is going, and not growing by much; and two, coming to the other side of this smartphone growth? Or do we really need to prepare ourselves for sort of lower ARPU, lower revenue growth in Wireless going forward? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Phil. First and foremost, we still feel good about our guidance about mid-single-digits revenue growth in the Mobility business. I would suggest to you a couple of things.

One, we do still have room to grow on the smartphones; as we mentioned, sales rates are at 90%. Current customer base is at 70%. That gives us a lot of room to grow.

Secondly, we continue to see the adding of tablets and other data devices, so that is going well.

Third is as we continue to complete our LTE deployment, we will -- we expect we will continue to see growth in other services, like video and so forth. So that should provide us with future growth opportunities. And all of that is before we roll out things like Digital Life, the Connected Car, Mobile Premise Solution, and a lot of the other opportunities that we have moving forward.

So we still feel good about where we are at. We are opportunistic and pleased about where we are going, and think we will move forward with that.

You specifically asked the question about Digital Life. We are going to launch -- I think we have announced we are going to launch 15 markets by the middle of the year, in the spring of this year. And so I think you will be hearing more about that soon.

PHILIP CUSICK: If I can just follow up for a quick second. It seems like the wireless industry this quarter, at least on a voice basis, is going to be fairly negative. And it looks like you are negative on your own in terms of voice. Is that an acceptable situation for AT&T? And can you continue to be sort of negative on voice over time, as competitors sort of lose fewer subscribers, or do you need to turn it up a little bit and try and be positive there?

JOHN STEPHENS: I guess -- let me make one other point that maybe I should have made sooner, and that is -- if you look at what our churn has done and the fact that it has continuously gone down, we are really optimistic about growing revenues from that perspective. And as that happens, we will see impacts on our total revenue base.

But if you're asking are we going to continue to see some form of conversion of revenue from voice to data, that would not surprise us, but we are positioned well with usage-based plans to capture the revenue opportunity that that data provides. So I feel good -- still feel good about all of those opportunities. We just need to continue to execute and continue to move forward with our LTE build.

PHILIP CUSICK: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. John, maybe just a quick follow-up to Phil's question, really more focused on the ARPU. You saw some deceleration. If you look at some of the components, I think -- I believe phone-only ARPU went from 2.5% growth last quarter to 2% this quarter. And then the dilution from these other high-margin, low-ARPU devices almost doubled from 0.6% to 1.1%.

I guess first, what is driving the phone-only deceleration? Is that just -- you still have a lot of penetration to go, but maybe the incremental penetration from a smartphone standpoint is slowing. And really, if we put all these points together, I mean, should we continue to expect to see deceleration going forward? Or is it more of an alternative sub sort of story and less of an ARPU story?

And then one other thing. I mean, I don't know -- you guys broke out home phone customers last quarter. I am wondering if you guys are still giving out that number. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: John, a couple of things. One, ARPU is always impacted by quarterly fluctuations and the level of sales and so forth. But quite frankly, this quarter is impacted compared to prior quarters by the change in the regulatory rates. There was a 10% change in the regulatory fee rates that are charged that are included in our revenues. And so that, I think, explains a fair amount of the differentiation in some of the revenue growth. That is all it is.

So from that perspective, when you take that into consideration, still feel real good about where our ARPU is going and our phone-only ARPU.

JOHN HODULIK: So the regulatory fee did hit that phone-only ARPU number?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, I mean, the USF rates went down from 17.9% to 16.1%, about a 10% reduction. So that is impacting all of our growth rate numbers. It is just part of the process.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITES: Hey, guys, thanks. John, can you just talk a little bit about, again, on the Wireline margin side; I know there is typically some first quarter seasonality to that. Are there pieces we should be thinking about? The Project VIP impact, I guess I was expecting more of a sort of 14 impact on success-based, so I am assuming that has been pulled forward. Maybe you can just give a little more detail around that.

And then lastly, any reaction to the upgrade policy change on wireless at Verizon?

JOHN STEPHENS: So on Wireline margins, specifically with regard to U-verse, a couple of points, Mike. I think you are hitting on one. Our expansion of our footprint for U-verse services from Project Velocity is really a later this year and 2014 type event. The sales and success in customer adds on both video and IP broadband was really great execution in this first quarter. It wasn't expanded selling space. But with that, we still had success-based costs. And so we will take those for these long-term, valuable customers. So that is one aspect of it.

Two, I would expect that as we expand the footprint and get additional coverage that we get out of Velocity, you will continue to see some really solid numbers and some pressure from the success of sales. I just believe the first-quarter results are a real positive for going forward. So, you are right -- we always have some first-quarter pressure with regard to margins. That is not unusual. But it is in the comparison to last year also.

Third --

MIKE MCCORMACK: Is this a run rate we should be thinking about, John, as we progress through the next couple of quarters?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, I would suggest it this way. We still think we are going to come in slightly below -- we won't change that guidance -- slightly below last year's margins amount. But we feel good about the efforts the team has gone through to manage the margins.

And if you think about the challenges we faced in the Business revenues, we are really performing well on cost management.

On your question with regard to some of the changes going into the marketplace, you know, absolutely, the marketplace is dynamic and it is changing, and we are looking at those changes and evaluating them and trying to stay current with all aspects of it. Don't have anything to announce today, but we are respectful of our competitors in this environment, but we are also pretty comfortable with the fact that we are going to be able to continue to compete at a very high level.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, great, thank you. John, maybe a couple of questions. First, on tablets, you obviously had a really good quarter. You had a partial subsidy model attached to that, and I am wondering, in thinking through that, is the subsidy maybe something you used just to stimulate demand temporarily and sort of place these devices in the base? Or is that more of a sort of recurring part of the model as we go forward?

And then second question, just on leverage. You know, the 1.8 turns, I think my understanding was to create room to invest in Project VIP and to go through a big capital cycle over the course of three years, and still leave room to buy back shares aggressively if you wanted to. You know, with reducing the capital spending targets here, but still leaving the leverage target out there at sort of the same ratio, does that signal an intention to continue to tap that capacity for additional share buybacks? I know you said buybacks are slowing from here, but it seems like you still have plenty of room if that is the case. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Okay, great, Jason. Let me cover your second question first. With regard to the 1.8, it was a couple of things. Yes, it was a recognition of the fact that we are going to have some higher capital spend. And two, it was also a recognition of historically low interest rates.

If you look at our interest expense first quarter '12/first quarter '13, you will see that even though our debt levels have increased, our overall interest expense is down. And that is really what we were trying to take advantage of, is the fact that there is a lot of really inexpensive or attractively priced debt capital. And with a Company like ours, who has a very solid dividend, we are trying to be prudent in making the decisions about which capital to utilize.

With that being said, yes, the reduction in the Project VIP capital projection over the last two years will provide us additional flexibility, and that is very important to us.

With that being said, we are going to stick with what we guided in the presentation, and that is we are going to be opportunistic with the additional buyback. We would expect to finish the 600 million share authorization in the second quarter, and we will be opportunistic and potentially buy at a slower pace as we go forward.

The other question I think you had, Jason, was on tablets, and I would suggest to you that you have identified it right. We put that in place to see how it would work, to stimulate demand and to see what kind of not only take rates we get on the tablets, but also what kind of ARPUs we would get.

After our initial testing of that in the fourth quarter, we decided to stay with it, because we have found that the economics of it make a lot of sense. I won't suggest to you that it is a permanent offering, but I will suggest to you we will continue to monitor it and make our decisions as we go forward with regard to keeping it in place or adjusting it, just like we do with all our product offerings.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Colby Synesael, Cowen and Company.

COLBY SYNESAEL, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Great, I have two questions. First, on the regulatory fees, both in Wireless and Wireline, I'm curious if those all began on January 1 or if it happened mid-quarter, and therefore there is more of an impact to be seen in the second quarter. And also how that relates back to your previous guidance of 2% or greater than 2% consolidated revenue growth.

And then my second question has to do with M&A and what's the [C] Company's appetite for M&A, particularly outside the US and even more so in Europe. Has that increased or decreased perhaps over the last -- I guess since the beginning of the year? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So, welcome Colby. The first thing I want to mention to you is that right now, we are not changing our guidance with regard to greater than 2% revenue growth for the year. We are certainly sensitive to the situation at hand with regard to the economy and the impact it is having on Business revenues. So we want to be respectful of that and we understand those aspects. So the challenge of the economy and the challenges of (inaudible) for business is something we follow really closely.

With regard to the regulatory fees, those rates were in place for the quarter. That differential was for the first quarter. The new rates have been established for the second quarter, and I believe the differential year over year is about the same -- different rates, but it is about the same stepdown. So some of that regulatory fee pressure will continue throughout the second quarter.

We are aware of that, and so we are taking that into account in all of our planning.

With regard to M&A activity, we don't comment on any M&A activity and I am not going to do that now. As we have said before, the real issues we find is that the US marketplace that we operate in is well ahead -- appears to be well ahead of the rest of the world in mobility and the developments around mobility. And as stewards of our shareholders' assets, we need to see if we can provide and take advantage of the assets and knowledge we have and provide value for our shareholders based on what we have learned. But we don't comment on M&A activities and I won't comment on any now.

COLBY SYNESAEL: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, guys, thanks for taking the questions. John, it looks like with the tax benefit in the income statement and the deferred tax gain in the cash flow statement, it looks like you guys got about a $1 billion tax contribution positive to the quarter. Could you talk a little bit about how you see that shaping up over the course of the year, contributing to the $14 billion free cash flow or better guidance? And then obviously how the contribution of the Wireless business is going to layer in over the course of the year on that front?

And then, you know, a second question. If I could just kind of go back to this -- I just want to be kind of -- make sure I understand was that -- I think what you were saying is that from a competitive standpoint, from a Wireless subscriber growth standpoint, AT&T is satisfied with how it did this quarter. Stay the course in terms of general approach to the market, irrespective of what is going on with T-Mobile. And then as the LTE business kind of ramps up, look to that for future revenue growth opportunities? Is that a fair assessment of what you said earlier? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, David. Let me take them one at a time. First of all, on the tax side of the earnings, we recognize the fact that there was about a $0.03 benefit in the income tax line, a reduction of expense, and that is what we have adjusted in our presentation. That -- if you pull that out, that leaves us with an effective tax rate just under 33%. And I think those of you who have been following us know that our kind of normal effective tax rate is somewhere in that 33% to 34% range, so I wouldn't expect that to be any different for the rest of the year.

Secondly, with regard to taxes and cash flow, first of all, we take into account an estimate of our cash tax payments as we determine cash flow and as part of our cash from operations, so that is all included. And we continue to guide that free cash flow will be in excess of $14 billion this year.

I understand people questioning that number, based on the fact that we are $3.9 billion in the first quarter; that is higher than last year. Understand the question. But right now, we will continue to guide to greater than $14 billion.

With regard to our Mobility business, let me make sure I clarify it in the sense of -- we follow the marketplace. We continue to look at what others are doing and what we are doing ourselves, and we continue to develop ideas and methodologies and processes to be more competitive. The best example I can give you is the mobile share plans, as well as Digital Life. So we are doing that all the time.

We will continue to do that, don't have any new ideas or new product offerings or bundles to announce to you today. But I don't want to suggest to you that there is any lack of activity on improving our business or growing it more rapidly than it is growing today.

DAVID BARDEN: And John, just to follow up quick on how the contribution of the Wireless stake is going to get flowed through the tax line, the cash flow benefit for the rest of the year.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, as I say, we have taken into account any of the tax benefits -- cash or expense benefits into account in our planning in the guidance we gave in January. And quite frankly, the cash flow guidance which I've just refreshed and the EPS guidance which we are not changing has already taken that into account.

DAVID BARDEN: Right, got it. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks, guys. Just two broad questions. Back on the Wireless front, John, maybe to delve into it a little bit more, do you think you have pricing power in Wireless as it maybe improved versus where you were a couple of years ago, and do you think you can take advantage of that?

And then secondly, maybe you can delve into on the supplier side a little bit more. It sounds like the CapEx obviously is coming in below expectations for the next couple of years, which is great. But is that somewhat coming from just better pricing that you are seeing on the supplier front?

And I guess, you know, back to a question I have almost every quarter -- can we start to see the same thing on the handset side? Do you think you have a little bit more leverage at this stage on the handset supplier front? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So good to hear from you Tim. Let me take a few things. One thing -- I would tell you this. On the Wireless side, the way I think about it is this improving network that we have, and, you know, the recognition from RootMetrics, not only have the fastest but the highest quality, and this more rapid deployment than we expected, that I expected with regard to our LTE, really gives us -- gets us feeling good about the opportunities for the overall Wireless business to add more customers, to lower churn, retain more customers and to generate revenue from usage-based devices. So I think, if you will, the powerful piece of our Wireless business that is going on now is really this opportunity to utilize that really powerful LTE network and grow the business. That is how we are focused on it.

With regard to CapEx, I would suggest to you that there is a couple of things going on. One, we got deployment out of the LTE faster and on an accelerated basis even last year, when we had guided to finish at 150 million LTE POPs, and when we had the earnings announcement, we were at about 170 million. And now we are guiding to be nearly 90% complete with our 300 million POPs by the end of this year. So that acceleration is taking some of the CapEx pressure off of '14 and '15.

Secondly, we are finding that the integration opportunities, when we do a -- if you will, a bottoms-up build plan analysis, we are finding more integration efficiencies and opportunities than we had originally planned for, and that is driving a lot of the savings.

And third, the ability to get out there quicker is really taking off some of the pressure that we expected to have on some of our core non-Velocity investments. So those are all combining.

We are getting efficiency in the build and effectiveness in the build and pushing it that way. I would suggest that is where the capital savings are coming from.

The last thing, Tim, I would suggest to you is we are always looking at ways to improve the economics of the handset model. We think that is certainly really important, and we continue to look for ways to do that. But what I will tell you, we continue to do it with a focus on the customer and making sure we develop ideas that are not only focused on economic efficiency for us, but for customer satisfaction. We have to have -- we believe we have to have both pieces of that to really be successful long-term with it.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Yes, I wonder if we could switch over to slide 12, where you talk about the cloud and hosting there. And two questions specifically. First, if you could talk a little bit about what you have been seeing in terms of pricing on cloud. There has been a lot made of the recent pricing declines out of Amazon and Rackspace, and how that has affected you.

And then given the fact that you have dedicated a slide to it in your slide deck, maybe you can size up that opportunity. How big does that have to become before it can begin to move the needle here on the top line for Wireline results? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: So a couple of things. One, with regard to how to move the needle on Wireline results, as you all know, our Wireline revenue base is in that $60 billion plus range. So I will leave it to your own judgment on how big it needs to get to, if you will, move that needle. But we believe it is a real opportunity for us to help us growing that revenue, and also providing us the opportunity to continue to provide those network-based services. So keeping the traffic on our services, as well as providing the security and the other hosting services. So we believe that the opportunity is strong for us.

I would suggest to you even recent events will tell you that with regard to our managed network and our security opportunities, it will provide an even better advantage for us. That is one.

With regard to recent pricing activities, I would suggest to you that I think there is going to be continued pricing movement in this area. We are aware of that, we are prepared for that. But we feel long-term, we can provide a quality product with good margins to generate returns for our shareholders. So we think it is very much worth our investment.

And specifically, we believe it because we have the, if you will, dual side of not only providing the cloud and the hosting, but also being able to provide the mobility connectivity to that for a customer's employee base. So we feel really good about both sides of it.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thank you.

SUSAN JOHNSON: I think we have got time for just one more question.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for getting me in. So some of the earlier questions were sort of alluding to the fact that your postpaid phone base slipped a little bit in the quarter. And obviously, the first quarter is seasonally slow and so it is hard to read into that.

But if we put seasonality aside, what do you anticipate for your traditional phone base going forward? Is this something that we should see outside of a seasonally slow period continue to grow? Or are you somewhat indifferent now, not because you don't care, but just because the real revenue growth driver going forward is data volume on your network, and not necessarily the net change in your phone base quarter to quarter?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, so I think we do find it important to continue to, if you will, grow our phone base, but more importantly, convert our phone base. Because if you think about the differential between 70% of our postpaid and the 90% sales flow, if you think about that on our base, it is 14 million customers. And when you convert them to smartphones, you may think of them as a phone, but they are generating significant data usage on the network, and an opportunity for real revenue creation.

So we are focused on it, but we are also focused on growing our customer base. I don't want to leave you with the impression it is just conversion; it is both. And we believe we are positioned well to do that.

So I think it is both aspects of that. But when you have got the quality network like we do and the great sales operations like we have and a customer-focused approach, we are optimistic about our ability to be very successful.

BRETT FELDMAN: All right, thanks for taking the question.

JOHN STEPHENS: With that, I want to thank you for being with us this afternoon. We have had a solid start to the year, and believe we have built a very strong foundation for growth going forward. Our momentum is solid. Our balance sheet is strong. And our Project VIP expansion is going to bring us even more opportunity. As always, we thank you for being on the call and we thank you for your interest in AT&T. Goodnight.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference call for today. We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130430e94n007eq
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,736 words
   PD
24 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings release 2012 conference call.

   TD
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). Also, as a reminder, today's teleconference is being recorded.

At this time, I will turn the conference call over to your host, Ms. Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, VP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you Tony. Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to our fourth-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us today. I'm Susan Johnson, the head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Joining me on the call today is Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Randall will provide opening comments and then close with 2013 guidance. And John will cover our results. Then we will follow with Qs&As.

Let me remind you our earnings material is available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That's www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

Of course, I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on Slide 3. This presentation and comments may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks. Results may differ materially. Details in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

With that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chairman and CEO, Randall Stephenson.

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, AT&T INC.: Thanks Susan and good afternoon everyone. I have -- I'm just going to make a couple of comments before we let John take you through the results.

But many of you were on the call a year ago, and you probably recall me talking candidly with you about what we had to get done in 2012. And our number one priority was Spectrum. And I also said we needed to accelerate our shift into our growth businesses. And I also made it clear that we are going to be very aggressive in returning value to our owners, and this is where we focused our efforts during the year.

And on the Spectrum front, we have signed nearly 50 deals. And those include introducing WCS Spectrum into the mobile ecosystem for the very first time. And actually just kind of fresh off the wire, today we formally closed the NextWave acquisitions which was the property that included the largest block of that Spectrum. So that transaction has closed today. And you put all these deals together and they increase our average national spectrum by a third.

And while everybody in the industry is always going to be looking for more spectrum, at this stage I like our position. This spectrum is obviously an important piece of the puzzle for Project VIP, and we outlined Project VIP for you in the November. And this is without a doubt the most comprehensive organic growth initiative for us in several decades. And it includes expansion in both wireless and wireline. And most of you are familiar with the plan. It includes LTE covering 300 million people by year-end 2014 with an extensive network densification aspect to it.

IP broadband is 75% of our wireline customer locations, fiber into 1 million additional business locations, and we plan to execute a full transition of our network to wireless plus IP. Then once Project VIP is complete, nearly all of our customers will have access to high-speed broadband through wireless, wired, or some combination of both. So this is going to give us a much larger platform for new services. It will improve our revenue mix. It is going to improve our cost structure for many years to come. Most important, it will let us layer on services that we believe are going to change every aspect of our customers' lives -- how they buy things, how they manage and secure their homes, how they access entertainment; their experience behind the car wheel is going to change. There's going to be a whole healthcare ecosystem change, and I could go on. But it's clear the industry is moving beyond the device and into a new era of solutions and services.

We also delivered solid financial results. For the year, we had on an apples-to-apples basis revenue growth of 2.4%, and adjusted EPS up 8.5%. Our cash from operations came in over $39 billion. We invested $20.5 billion in capital at Spectrum. We paid out $10 billion in dividends and increased our dividend for the 29th consecutive year. We bought back 6% of our shares, which will reduce dividends by about $700 million per year. And if you combine the buybacks and dividends, we returned $23 billion to our owners last year. And we did this with a very small increase in debt. And we refinanced $12 billion of our debt to take advantage of the low rates. And then on top of that, we began the process to solidify our pension plan and we are contributing a preferred equity interest in AT&T Mobility, which is our best asset, into the plan. And we're working with the Department of Labor to complete that this year. All this gives us a really good starting point for 2013.

And here's what you ought to expect from us -- an aggressive rollout of Project VIP. You'll see us scale several new businesses this year, including Digital Life, our Mobile Wallet JV, Connected Cars and a number of others. And over the next few years, these represent billions of dollars of new revenue opportunity for us. And of course you should expect us to maintain a strong balance sheet and continue returning value to our owners.

So I think we are executing well. I like how we're set up for 2013.

And so with that, I'm going to turn it over to John Stephens to take you through the quarter and then I'll be back to walk you through more details on our 2013 outlook. So John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks Randall. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today. Let me begin by providing a consolidated financial summary which is on Slide 6.

When you look at 2012, our adjusted financial results were strong across the board -- revenues, margins, and earnings per share. When you exclude our divested Ad Solution business and adjust for the Superstorm Sandy impacts, revenues were up 2.4% for the year and 2.8% in the fourth quarter. Operating income increased 4.8%. Consolidated margins improved, even with record smartphones sales. And as a result, we grew adjusted earnings per share 8.5% for the year, and we had our strongest ever annual cash flows.

Cash from operating activities totaled $39.2 billion in 2012, and free cash flows were $19.4 billion. That strong free cash flow allowed us to be aggressive with our share buybacks. We repurchased more than 370 million shares during the year.

Looking at the fourth quarter, we had reported earnings per share of a negative $0.68, but excluding $1.12 in the adjustments, earnings per share was $0.44, a 10% year-over-year increase. These adjustments included $1.10 of non-cash pressure from the year-end mark-to-market change for our benefit plans. This actuarial loss on the benefit plans was driven solely by the reduction of the discount rate from 5.3% at the end of last year to 4.3% at the end of this year and $0.02 of pressure due to storm impacts from Superstorm Sandy.

Now let's look at revenue growth and revenue mix. Details are on Slide 7. Fourth-quarter consolidated revenues totaled $32.6 billion. That's up 2.8% year-over-year when you exclude Ad Solutions and the storm impacts. Driving this growth was strong mobile Internet results, excellent U-verse gains, and continued strength in strategic business services.

On the left side of the slide, you can see how our growth drivers -- wireless, wireline data and managed services -- have become a larger and larger part of our business. In the fourth quarter, 81% of our revenues came from these areas. That's up from 69% just three years ago. And revenues from these areas were up $1.4 billion in the quarter, or almost a 6% growth rate. We expect this mix shift to continue. And by 2016, we expect these growth drivers to represent close to 90% of our total revenue.

Now, let's move to our operations results, starting with wireless, revenue and ARPU on Slide 8. Wireless data continues to drive solid revenue results. Data revenues were up more than 14% in the quarter. That helped drive 4.2% service revenue growth. And total wireless revenues were up over 5.5% in the quarter. Data revenues were impacted somewhat by the growth of Mobile Share plans with unlimited text messaging and voice are standard for those plans. And we booked messaging revenues in our Wireless Voice category while Mobile Share data revenues go to data.

You can also see the impact of data growth when you look at ARPU. Postpaid data ARPU grew at nearly 12% and total postpaid ARPU, which includes postpaid devices such as tablets, was up 1.9%. And phone-only ARPU was up 2.5%, growing off a much higher ARPU base than anyone else.

Postpaid ARPU was impacted somewhat by Superstorm Sandy. In an effort to help those in the storm's path, we waived all overages, both voice and data. Without that revenue loss, total postpaid ARPU growth for the quarter would have been about 2.1%.

One of the highlights of the quarter was our strong postpaid growth where we had our largest gains in three years. Details are on Slide 9. We added almost 800,000 postpaid subscribers in the quarter with strong gains in smartphones, tablets, and mobile premise solutions. Overall, we added 1.1 million new subscribers with additional gains in connected devices and reseller. Prepaid net adds were impacted by declines of both session-based tablets and GoPhone. Branded computing subscribers are up 26% year-over-year, driven by strong tablet sales.

Postpaid churn also had another strong quarter, down from the year-ago fourth quarter, and smartphone churn was even lower. The growing number of subscribers on family, business, or Mobile Share plans also helped reduce churn. Subscribers on these plans tend to be stickier with lower churn.

Let's now move to smartphones sales and our usage-based data plans on Slide 10. Mobile Share growth was dramatic, especially when you consider that we give customers a choice with taking those plans or keeping what they already have. These plans were first introduced late in the third quarter of 2012. By the end of the fourth quarter, 6.6 million subscribers were on Mobile Share plans, or about 10% of our postpaid base. And these subscribers were on 2.2 million accounts, which gives us an average of about three devices per account.

Take rates on the higher data plans continue to run above expectations. More than a quarter of Mobile Share accounts have a 10 gigabit or larger plans. And we continue to see a steady move of subscribers on unlimited plans taking advantage of Mobile Share. More than 15% of our subscribers are moving from unlimited plans to Mobile Share.

Overall, more than two-thirds our smartphone base has moved to usage-based plans in the last 2.5 years. And we expect that trend to continue.

We also had another record quarter for smartphones sales. Our wireless team sold 10.2 million smartphones, the most smartphones ever sold by any US carrier. Those sales accounted for 86% of all postpaid sales and 89% of postpaid phone sales in the quarter. Smartphone subscribers now account for almost 70% of our postpaid phone base.

When looking at the full year, our smartphone base grew by almost 8 million. These are the premium subscribers in our business. ARPU is twice that of non-smartphone subscribers and they have much lower churn.

We also saw our best ever Android and Apple device sales in the quarter. More customers continue to choose the iPhone on AT&T's network. We activated 8.6 million iPhones in the fourth quarter with about 16% new to AT&T for about the same percentage of new subscribers as last year.

Now, let's take a look at margins and operating income growth on Slide 11. As you know, the investments we've made to drive record smartphone sales impacted margins. While we continue to make progress in improving our margins, we also are more than willing to invest in smartphones because of the benefits they bring. Those include higher ARPU, lower churn, strong data growth, and with that, growing operating income, which was up more than 6% for the year.

In the fourth quarter, wireless EBITDA service margin was 29.1%, about the same as last year's fourth quarter, and it was nearly 30%, taking into account the impacts of Superstorm Sandy. For the full year, our EBITDA service margin was 39.6% and it was 39.9% when adjusting for storm impacts. So even though we sold 1.5 million more smartphones in 2012 than we did in 2011, our wireless EBITDA service margins for the year improved almost 100 basis points, and improved even more when you account for the storms.

And the number of upgrades was down for the year, about 5%, which provided further margin support. We are making progress with margins, and we expect that progress to continue going forward.

Now, let's look at our wireline operations, starting with consumer, which you can see on Slide 12. A quick look at our U-verse results helps explain our confidence as we expand these services to 75% of our wireline base through Project VIP. We continue to see strong subscriber growth, both video and high-speed broadband. This in turn has accelerated customer revenue growth to 3% in the fourth quarter, our best performance in more than four years.

We continue to hit new and higher benchmarks with U-verse, including 8 million total U-verse subscribers, 4.5 million U-verse video customers with 192,000 net adds in the quarter, and 7.7 million high-speed IP broadband subscribers. That's nearly a 50% increase for the year with more than 600,000 added in the fourth quarter. And for the first time, our consumer high-speed IP broadband subscribers outnumber our legacy broadband customers. And while overall broadband subscribers remained steady in the quarter, total broadband ARPU was up more than 10% year-over-year.

U-verse is now a $10 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at 38% for the full year. And IP data revenues, driven by U-verse, now represent 61% of consumer revenues, up from 53% just a year ago. But we believe the best is yet to come. We think there is a lot of room for growth here. Penetration rates are just starting to climb, so the runway is long. And with our Project VIP expansion, that opportunity will only grow as we bring U-verse video and high-speed IP wired broadband to 1 million more customer locations.

Now, let's move to Business which you can see on Slide 13. The story in the fourth quarter is similar to what we have seen all through 2012. Customers delayed some buying decisions due to concerns with the economy. The fiscal cliff uncertainty lasted the entire quarter. And small business starts continued to lag last year's level.

But the silver lining in the fourth quarter was some small signs of revenue stability. On a sequential basis, revenues were up due to growth in enterprise. Service revenues were up slightly versus the third quarter, and wholesale revenues also showed signs of stability.

Overall, business and wireline revenue was down 2.1% in the fourth quarter, slightly better than the 2.6% drop in the third quarter. So it's been another challenging year, but through it all, we have been able to continue to hold margins steady while transitioning legacy products to IP data services.

Our strategic business services also continue to grow. That includes products such as Ethernet, VPNs and application services, which were up 10.5% for the quarter and up 13.5% for the full year. And data revenues continue to grow, even in this challenging environment, with IP data revenues up 2.4% year-over-year. It's still a weak market, but we are cautiously optimistic that this business is showing some signs of stability and we are hopeful that an improving economy will get this part of the Company growing again.

Now, let's look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on Slide 14. Even with strong postpaid net adds and record-breaking smartphones sales, consolidated margins improved. For the year, our adjusted consolidated margin was 18.2%. That compares to 17.8% in 2011. Wireline operating income margin also expanded during the year as wireline continues its transformation from voice to IP data. This helped offset declines in legacy services and a sluggish economy thanks to improving revenue trends in consumer, scaling IP, and solid execution of AT&T cost initiatives. We continue to keep a sharp eye on cost efficiencies and we see more opportunity to reduce expenses as we move ahead.

Now, let's move to cash flow, which continues to be outstanding. Our summary is on Slide 15. Cash from operations was a record $39.2 billion, and we had record free cash flow as well. Free cash flow before dividends was $19.4 billion, up more than 34% from a year ago. Strong cash flows give us the flexibility to invest in the business and return value to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. We were able to do all of these in 2012.

Capital expenditures were $19.7 billion with more than half of that invested in our wireless business. Dividend payments for the year totaled $10.2 billion, and we repurchased more than 370 million shares, or about 6% of outstanding shares with about $13 billion. We completed our initial $300 million share buyback authorization in the fourth quarter and began buying back shares under our second $300 million share authorization. When you look at both dividends and buybacks, we returned $23 billion to our shareholders during the year.

In terms of uses of cash, our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio increased only slightly to 1.58, and net debt edged up as we took advantage of historically low interest rates with a net debt to capital ratio of 43%.

As we begin our Project VIP investments, our balance sheet is sound, our debt metrics solid. Our strong cash flows give us the flexibility to invest in growth while returning value to shareholders.

Now, before I hand it back to Randall for our 2013 outlook, let's take a quick look on how we delivered on 2012 guidance. I'd ask you to look at Slide 16.

On an adjusted basis, we expected consolidated revenue, margin, and EPS growth, and that's what we delivered. That includes hitting on the high end of our EPS range. We also expected the mobile Internet to drive wireless growth, and we saw subscriber gains, postpaid ARPU growth, and expanding wireless service margins during the year. We over-delivered on wireline margins and consumer wireline growth, thanks to the increasing strength of our U-verse services. We bumped up our free cash flow estimates during the year but finished the year even stronger than expected. And CapEx ended the year in the range we expected. We also were aggressive with our share buybacks, adding a second $300 million repurchase authorization during the year. And as Randall said earlier, we knocked it out of the park in executing our strategies in 2012. Altogether, an excellent performance in a challenging economy and a performance that gives us confidence as we head into 2013.

With more details on that, let me hand it back over to Randall.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Thanks John. I'm going to be real quick because we want to get to questions here, but just a couple of comments on what you can expect from us in 2013. And what you're going to see is a very aggressive execution on Project VIP, and we are actually off to a very strong start there. And as part of that, we expect to take our LTE build to 250 million or more POPS by year-end. You're going to see us launch several of our new growth businesses. I discussed those earlier. And we are looking at CapEx in 2013 in the $21 billion range. And obviously, there'll be an emphasis on wireless and Project VIP.

In terms of financials, we expect to deliver EPS growth in the upper single digits or higher. Consolidated revenue growth should exceed 2%. Consolidated operating margins should be stable, and wireless margins should expand.

We expect cash generation to be strong. In fact, free cash flow after CapEx will exceed $14 billion. This gives us room for continuing share repurchases. And actually, we expect to complete our current buyback authorization as early as mid-year. So I would characterize this as a very achievable outlook. You know our history. We tend to be conservative. And this assumes no lift from the economy.

So, to close, I like how we are executing. We have a really strong financial position which gives us the opportunity to invest aggressively and continue returning value to our owners. And I like the moves we are making to expand our growth platforms.

So Susan, with that, I think we'll get ready for questions.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you Randall. Tony, I think we are now ready to open it up for our first question.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey guys, thanks. I guess two quick ones. First, Randall, you were quoted recently as -- I don't know if this is right or not -- but saying that international or European acquisitions may be inevitable to continue growth. Can you address that for us?

And then second, for John, blowing through this buyback by midyear, that's great. What do you think about the potential to reauthorize and how does the Board think about that so far? Thank you.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Sure. As it relates to international, I was asked about consolidation. I said some level of consolidation was inevitable. And obviously we don't comment on M&A rumors, but here's what I would ask you to think about. As you consider what's happened in the last five years in the US, it has been impressive what's transpired in the mobile Internet revolution. And the US has been outpacing the rest of the globe fairly considerably. And I think most people expect the rest of the world will catch up.

And so the question you have to ask is are there opportunities for us to participate in that growth outside the US? And we look at this from a lot of different ways. As more and more people around the world begin to deploy LTE, there are probably some opportunities to create some unique roaming arrangements where we can roam on each other's networks at different cost structures, which may change that dynamic somewhat, the opportunities to partner -- like you've seen us partnering in China, our China Telecom deal that we did, and you'll probably see those kind of deals more and more in the mobility side. Do you invest at the infrastructure level is a big question.

And there's really another aspect to it, and that is can you participate in this growth outside the US at the application level? And this year is going to be very instructive in that regard to us because services like Digital Life, which is really -- I mean it's an over-the-top application for home security and monitoring and so forth. And is it possible to carry those platforms outside the US? We are already licensing that platform to companies in Europe. So, can those platforms be extended in an over-the-top model outside the US? So as we kind of look at this, we do believe the US experience will be replicated outside the US, and we are just trying to decide how is it we would participate in that? And there are a lot of avenues for that.

PHIL CUSICK: That sounds like acquiring something is less on your minds than other opportunities.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: There's just a lot of different ways to think about it, and that's all I'm trying to characterize here. There's a lot of options.

PHIL CUSICK: Thank you. John?

JOHN STEPHENS: With regard to your question, first and foremost it's a board decision on the authorization, so we are going to work within the authorizations we have currently.

Secondly, in evaluating and in providing information with regard to share buyback, first and foremost it's a question of the valuation of your shares compared to the market price that is out there. And we look at what analysts say. We look at our own internal valuations of a share price, and we look at what the market is trading the stock at.

But before you get to a further authorization, you need to make sure that, one, your cash flows from your business, which we have had really very solid cash flow performance, is enough to make sure you can continue to reinvest first, you can continue to pay your dividend first, and you have enough cash flow leftover to be able to take advantages of opportunities, like Randall mentioned today, an opportunity to get some more spectrum in the NextWave transaction that we closed today. And if you're comfortable with that, then you go into the decision of what you do with that extra capital. That's a process we go through on a regular basis, and we'll continue to do that.

This is a unique time from a market perspective in that the cash costs of our equity are high compared to traditional interest rate and borrowing capacity that's out there. And that's the reason why we've incurred slightly more debt than we've usually carried.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it. Thanks guys.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. I wonder if we could talk about the CapEx side of the equation. You were talking about a $21 million(sic-see press release "$21 billion") just a mid single-digit increase year-over-year. How should we think about that in the context of the analyst meeting and the sort of up to sort of $22 billion? What's the delta there, and are we still looking at $22 billion possibly over the next couple of years, or do you think you're going to be more efficient in achieving some of the goals? And could you be a bit more specific about what you're going to see with Project VIP in '13? You've talked about the LTE rollout, but perhaps, on the wireline side, should we be sort of hitting a third of the three-year targets over the next 12 months or any other color on that would be great. Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Let me try to answer a couple of your questions. First and foremost, the $22 billion we gave in November was that information related to a three-year plan. Since that time, we've really been able to put pencil to paper from an engineering perspective and really work specific business cases at a more detailed level. That's providing some of our opportunities. Quite frankly, we had more efficiency in our capital program last year, and finished this -- for example, we mentioned today we are at about 174 million POPS covered with LTE. Our commitment for the year had been about 150, so we are ahead of our achievement and spent some money efficiently. We are taking that into account.

And then lastly, we've been able to identify some, if you will, shared savings where the overlap between our wired and our wireless projects in VIP are going to allow for some more efficiency. All of those pieces go into the guidance that's $21 billion. And we are comfortable with that $21 billion range.

Specifically with regard to achievements, we are expecting 250 million POPS covered with LTE by the end of this year. We will also make -- we are not disclosing specific levels of fiber-to-the-building or expansion of U-verse footprint at this time, but you can think about it as kind of a ratable build schedule as we go forward. And we are moving forward today with some of the fiber--o-the building efforts and moving forward, immediately hit 13 on very many of those velocity projects. It's not a question of moving capital or cost into later years. With our financial flexibility, we will do as much as we can as early as possible.

SIMON FLANNERY: That's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Great, thanks. Maybe a question on the wireless side. During the year, you guys changed eligibility requirements and instituted some fees. Do you think there's still some other levers you can pull that can be used to enhance profitability?

And then Randall, maybe as you look out over the year, there's been some significant changes in the wireless industry. Do you expect to see any change in the real level of competitive intensity as we move through the year?

JOHN STEPHENS: Good question John. Certainly, we do believe that there are additional opportunities for us to focus on our cost structure and improve profitability in specifically wireless. If you look at the changes to our upgrade cycle policies, they reduced our upgrades by about 5% this year. If you guys do the math, you'll find it's in the $1 million -- or excuse me, in the million phone reduction, or million upgrade reduction range, so it did have a significant impact. And some of the other steps we took generated benefits for us.

We are going through a continual process of evaluating those on that side as well as evaluating cost structure opportunities and one AT&T type opportunities for additional efficiency. So those are ongoing. We are optimistic that those exist. And that is part and parcel of our guidance when we say that we expect wireless margins to continue to expand in '13.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: In terms of the industry dynamics, it should be an interesting year. There's a lot of talk and a lot of press out on the different industry players, and it's kind of hard to estimate what's going to happen. I think the way we are considering it internally it is it will probably be a little bit of open field running this year as T-Mobile and MetroPCS come together. I don't know what the timing is on that. I don't expect that to be a significant impact on 2013, but when they get that transaction closed, we expect there to be some dynamics in the marketplace that perhaps will have to respond to. Some of it we find interesting, like the handset financing that they are doing. That's something we've looked at on several occasions. I kind of like the idea. I commend them for trying it. It will be something we're going to be watching, how it is received in the marketplace.

And in terms of other players, it's just hard to say what the dynamics will be, but I think it will be just a little bit of open field running this year.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the question. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the enterprise in the business environment. Exiting last year and early this year, are you seeing any changes in the sales cycle, or the competitive intensity? And can you talk about what's built into the plan for this year in terms of are you expecting it to get a little bit better, stay the same as the back half of '12? Just some added color would be helpful. Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: I'll start and let John chime in with some details. But we are seeing a little glimmer of hope on the enterprise side. It's really hard to predict this segment right now when you have continuing resolutions and you have fiscal cliffs and you have debt ceilings and you have sequesters. And people are a little bit stuck right now, and it's been this way for about six months. But when you kind of look at them mid-level market and above, we actually saw positive growth in the first quarter. We have not seen that in quite some time.

The pressure on the Enterprise segment is coming from small business and particularly state and federal governments. And there the spending cycle is really slow and obviously the spending is down considerably. And so if we get through a lot of the budget situation, perhaps you can expect to see some lift, but our current expectation is we've built a plan around economic growth that's sub 2% right now. In fact, it's a very low assumption.

Business fixed investment -- we are not anticipating any great lift from fixed investment increases or hiring. And so we've built our expectations in this guidance we gave you around some rather slow economic indicators. And our hope is, at this mid-level Enterprise business and above, that they will continue investing in productivity efforts, because productivity efforts tend to require the types of solutions that we bring to bear, particularly in mobility. But it's a little uncertain right now.

JOHN STEPHENS: The only thing I would add to that is we are continuing to see some investment in strategic business services and people willing to invest in growth. It is slow.

And secondly, with our Project VIP investments, we hope to self-generate some changes in the small business by providing some additional broadband services and capabilities as we do some of our fiber-to-the-building, some of our expansion our U-verse footprint and give us some opportunities on a self-action -- self-led action to help increase our performance in small business. But it's just, as Randall said, we did not bake into our expectations for '13 any form of significant economic lift or significant recovery.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: What's kind of interesting, Michael, and it gets a little bit obscured in how the industry reports numbers, but we talk about enterprise being in decline on the fixed line side. When you look at the spend on the wireless side though, enterprise spending in total is actually rather healthy, but it's just the spend is really being directed towards mobility. The world of tablets and the world smartphones is really driving significant spend in enterprise business. So in total, it is growing. The fixed line side is a little pressured for the reasons we talked about.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Just to follow up briefly, is there a way investors should think about how much of your sales on enterprise are now tied to wireless? Is there a metric that you want us to keep in mind in terms of the demand from your customers to bundle the bill together and work with you on the combination of the two?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think the best indication of what's going on there is what we are seeing in some of the VPN and cloud hosting services, which are really part and parcel generated by a lot of the employee mobility issues that the large corporations are facing. But we don't have a direct breakout either on the mobility or on the wireline side that ties those two back and forth. And we have chosen not to do that for clarity of information as opposed to we think we can draw some challenges. We'll rethink that and continue to view that, but right now I think the way we give the information is the clearest picture for you.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks. John, just looking at the wireless margins as they progress into 2013 and I think John's comment -- John Hodulik's comments sort of hits on it as well, thinking up impact on subsidies and what we can change there. But I'm assuming we'll have a decent snapback as we go into Q1. Any color on that?

And then secondly, also with regard to smartphones, is there going to be an issue eventually where we have smartphone penetration reaching heights that, when we start talking record activations of smartphones, it becomes sort of a bad word, meaning we are seeing more smart-to-smart? Is there still ARPU opportunity to gain from the subsidy from that?

And then lastly, again, John, thinking about the targeted leverage and the dividend payout, when you think about how many shares you're thinking about repurchasing over a period of time, are you targeting an absolute reduction in dividend payment itself?

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me kind of go through this. There's a lot of questions. Let me go through them (inaudible). First and foremost is certainly the dividend reduction that results from the buybacks -- and as Randall mentioned, I think this year we're going to stay close to $700 million in that because of the share buyback process. It is an important piece of it. But quite frankly, it's not the controlling piece. Certainly it's taken into consideration but that's not what we are targeting. It has more to do with balancing the capital structure in today's environment with some certainty for a longer term while protecting our ability to invest a dividend and keep flexibility for things like we mentioned, whether it be NextWave or the Atlantic Tele-Network acquisition that we've recently announced. That's the balance that we have to have. The cash cost of debt today is much lower than the cash cost of our equity, and so that gives us that opportunity. We're just trying to do a balance while retaining flexibility, protecting the dividend. That's it.

Secondly, with regard to smartphones, once again, whether we're talking about percentage of sales of smartphones as a percentage of phones sold, which was about 89% this quarter, or smartphones as a percentage of total postpaid devices, which was about 86%, either one of those is well above our smartphone penetration of about two-thirds today. So, we have a natural -- with the existing base, we have a natural growth opportunity just by converting those to smartphones. And we have been growing that percentage of our postpaid base of smartphones 2% to 3% a quarter, so that's going to continue for some time.

Two, as we are seeing, we added 400,000 tablets, or nearly 400,000 tablets this quarter, so we are seeing the data-only devices, data-centric devices like tablets draw -- generating a lot of growth. We believe that will continue.

Our LTE rollout at 174 million POPS and moving to 250 million POPS is going to generate speeds which we think will generate usage, which we think gives us the opportunity, because of our new usage and tiered data plans and the movement of our customer base to that, will allow us to grow revenues. So we are optimistic about our position.

And then when you add on Digital Life, when you add on Connected Cars, when you had on the healthcare infrastructure that our analysts talk about, when you add on the mobile premise solution, or the home-based mobile phone, all of those opportunities, along with our Mobile Wallet, are going to give us real chances to continue to grow revenue and at a scaled base when you're a player of our size. So we are optimistic about that.

With regard to the wireless margins and consistent with what John was asking earlier, we're just looking at every aspect of our arrangements with our customers, of our service, trying to make our service effortless but very efficient. And so we're looking at all those and believe there are still opportunities to improve margins through making things easier on our customers while we are reducing costs on ourselves. So --.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK: That's great. And on the margin side, you are obviously anticipating an improvement in '13 versus '12. I'm assuming you don't want to try to put any parameters around that.

JOHN STEPHENS: No, we're going to stick with, very simply put, we're going to represent to you, like we did in 2012, what we can achieve, and we're going to take that same approach this year. And I'm sorry Mike. We are going to have improvement in margins. We are not going to disclose quarterly margin analysis. And yes, as you well know, there is going to be seasonality with regard to it based on a whole number of items that we go through. So, I think you are well aware of those items.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK: Great, I appreciate it guys.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. A couple of questions, I guess first for Randall. Realizing you obviously just did WCS and QUALCOMM, when do you envision the next opportunity to look for meaningful additions to your Spectrum portfolio? If you look at the FCC I guess and the current attempt sort of better define the rules for you around Spectrum ownership and potential caps, how does that influence your view on timing?

And then second question for John, at the analyst day, you guys obviously had pretty extensive detail and commitment on potential decommissioning of copper plan. As you start to get into those efforts from an engineering perspective and really gauge the response from regulators on the feasibility of this, how quickly do you think those efforts can progress and really translate into changes to the cost structure? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: On the Spectrum, you'll see, in all likelihood, some additional purchases of Spectrum this year filling in some holes. And so you'll see us continue to do some of that during the course of 2013. But in terms of when the next meaningful block of Spectrum will come on the market, that's obviously the government's next option, and they have talked about a 2014 date. I hope that's accurate. I would be impressed and surprised if it were. Our expectation is that hopefully they can get into the market in the 2015, 2016 timeframe.

And when you think about Spectrum caps, Jason, it's interesting. What's happened over the last year is the industry dynamic has kind of I think made the Spectrum cap issue I think far more interesting. It looks like Sprint is about to secure a significant amount of Spectrum. T-Mobile combining with MetroPCS, obviously their Spectrum depth and position is radically different.

And so our view and our expectation is, as we get closer to a government auction, that the need to do a lot of evaluation on Spectrum caps seems less and less relevant, and it seems like there's going to have to play into this an equation of how much Spectrum does an entity whole versus how much Spectrum are they using. And we continue to reinforce that Spectrum caps is the wrong way to think about this. The right way to think about this is ensuring that the Spectrum markets are fluid and liquid and that there are aggressive build requirements on Spectrum. You put those two things in place and you ensure kind of a market-based economic allocation of Spectrum. And so that's what we continue to push for and we are actually not anticipating any significant Spectrum caps being placed that would inhibit any of the players from engaging in an auction in the future. And when you consider the situation that the federal government has right now in terms of the fiscal problems that we're facing, I would expect that our Congress would be most interested in having an auction that would yield the greatest benefits. And the greatest benefits in Spectrum caps do not go hand-in-hand.

JOHN STEPHENS: With regard to the decommissioning copper plan issue, we continue to work that issue not only on network engineering and our IT guys with regard to products and services, and all the issues related to the transitioning to an all-IP service base provider, but we are also working it from an external affairs on the regulatory side.

I will tell you from the cost savings perspective that there are not significant cost savings expected in this guidance that we gave you for 2013. And I would suggest to you that it is a number of years out. It's not that it will not be achieved, but it's a number of years out in the sense of this is a longer process to work with all the interested parties and make sure we do it right, do it effectively, and do it successfully. So we're working it, a lot of activity on it, but I wouldn't suggest to you that there is a significant improvement in cost structure in '13 because of it.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Thanks guys.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks guys, appreciate taking the questions. I guess two. First, John, could you, on the guidance change, the increase in earnings per share growth expectations from mid-single digits at the analyst day to now high single digits, could you clarify if that's more about the timing and pacing of buybacks, or is there something fundamental that's improved relative to your view that you gave I guess in October, and if you could kind of elaborate a little bit on what that is?

And then I guess second, I don't know if Ralph is on the call, but maybe Randall, just as you look at your wireless business, I think you've got a lot of advantages relative to, as you mentioned, some of the interesting events that are going to take place this year. But if you look at yourself relative to Verizon, they are taking three times the net adds that you took in the quarter, including tablets, maybe four times if you exclude tablets. They're guiding to 10% higher margins in 2013 versus what AT&T got in 2012. LTE is about a year ahead. How do you think about trying to close the distance with respect to Verizon? Do you care? And what are you prepared to do in terms of margin, market share promotions, to really address that gap that's emerged? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take increase in EPS first. First, at the analyst conference, we were talking about a three-year cycle, the three-year term. And so that was the information we are providing there. And I think we told that we would update specific guidance on 2013 on this call. So there are different time frames, different patterns, just from the get-go.

I will tell you we are taking into account some of the really solid results that we had in the fourth quarter, specifically with regard to tremendous wireless sales and postpaid net adds, great performance on broadband and our consumer U-verse business, great performance on TV, so -- and quite frankly some really good news from our enterprise business side. So we update that. We take that into account, and of course we take into account our recent share repurchase. But really the answer to your question I think is more about we were talking about two different sets of time periods. One was a three-year general information. Today, it's a commitment on guidance that we expect to meet or exceed.

DAVID BARDEN: Got it.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: In terms of the comparison versus our competitors, I think you asked the question, do we care or think about it? You probably know us better than to ask that question. Of course we care. We think about it a lot and we focus on it. And our objective is to not lose share throughout the course of this year and to actually get to a point where we are gaining share vis-a-vis our competitors. And so we focus on it. We're doing a lot of work in terms of just margin expansion. And as we commented earlier on our guidance, we expect to expand our margins again this year. So our objective is to get our margins comparable to our competitors and also equalize share. So, it's a competitive dynamics in a competitive marketplace, and that's the fun part of this industry.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks Randall.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks guys, and two for Randall while I have you. With the reelected Obama administration, maybe just some thoughts on what you think they might focus on. Are you optimistic or concerned about any issues they might focus on? The only thing I've really seen is they seem to want to have much faster broadband speeds. Do you think there's anything they can do to really help that deployment in?

Secondly, Randall, while we have you, Apple is still a very large percentage of your iPhone sales, and it doesn't seem like the subsidies have really declined in that for the last six years. With Android catching up in terms of quality with a lot more global consolidation, do you see a point where those subsidies start to decline? And if so, when? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Sure. In terms of the administration's view on our industry and what we might expect, the current chairman has expressed obviously an interest in having broader broadband deployment. We are actually very supportive. We would like to see the administration come out with a position that is very, very supportive of broad-based broadband deployment. And our VIP announcement fits perfectly in line with that. In fact, the administration has expressed appreciation for our commitment to investment in extending the broadband. So I don't see any big issues coming out of the administration that are going to change our plans or change how we view the industry right now.

I think the biggest issues that could impact our industry and our company tend to be more macro policies in nature, tax policy for example. Do we get a big budget deal done? And if we do get a big budget deal done, is there an appetite and an interest in doing tax reform? And we would obviously be very, very significant supporters of tax reform. We would really love to see the effective rate on profits come down, and understanding that means some of the preferences like bonus depreciation may have to be compromised, but we think that's a good thing. It's good for our industry and we think it's healthy for the US economy. So those are the issues that are probably most impacting to us.

I think other policy issues that are kind of unknown that could affect the industry or us specifically are the Affordable Care Act, as those regulations are published, what kind of impact will that have because that's just a big uncertainty that we are all waiting, trying to understand exactly how that's going to affect all of us. And so the macro will be probably more important and more relevant to us in 2013 than industry-specific issues.

As you think about subsidies, we are very encouraged by the new device lineups we are seeing come into the marketplace. And we had a record quarter in terms of selling Android devices. I am very enthusiastic about the Windows 8 devices that are coming into the marketplace. And in 2013, we're going to see more and more of those. We think a good, vibrant, healthy set of options for our customers in the whole ecosystem is really, really good for our customers, and it's a good, healthy environment for competition among all of the players which, from our standpoint, would probably be good for us as well. So we are optimistic about what we see coming into the lineup in 2013 in a good healthy competitive set of handsets across different OSs, actually very optimistic about BlackBerry 10, hope that it proves to be as good as it appears to be. So anyway --

TIMOTHY HORAN: Thank you.

SUSAN JOHNSON: I think we've got time for just one more question.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for getting me in. During the quarter, I believe you were running a promo on your tablets. I think it was a $100 rebate, which kind of looks like an experiment with subsidies on tablets. I'm curious. What was your experience with that? Did you find that it ended up having a meaningfully positive effect on people buying tablets and attaching them to their data plans, or are you finding that the tethering option is accomplishing that without the cost?

JOHN STEPHENS: That's a good question. I guess I to answer your question this way. If you looked at our results, you'll see that we added just under 400,000 tablets for the quarter, which is a significant number for us, in the postpaid space. And we do believe that the $100 promotion was part of that; it was part of that success. When we looked at what those customers bought and what they added to in their Mobile Share or on their separate plans, we were pleased with the ARPUs that we got out of it. And so we viewed it as a positive and think of it as a tool that could be real beneficial to help us grow the business from a data-centric device.

BRETT FELDMAN: Do you think you're going to make it a little more of a permanent feature in the way you price tablets or just use it as a one-off promotional from time to time?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think we are going to look at that on a regular basis and decide as we go forward with it. In the fourth quarter, the results were positive not only on the sales activity but on the revenue commitments that we got out of that from a monthly basis. So the ARPU aspects of it were also more than satisfactory to us. So, we felt like it was a very successful strategy.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thanks for taking the question.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you. With that, I want to thank all of you for being on the call with us this afternoon. We've closed the year with another strong quarter and delivered on the expectations that we laid out for you at the beginning of 2012. And as Randall mentioned, we are positioned well for 2013. We're focused on growth, have a solid, achievable plan that will help us get there.

Thanks again for being on the call. And as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good evening.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i7902 : Telecommunications | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130207e91o0080x
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,108 words
   PD
24 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter 2012 earnings release. For the conference, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. With that being said, I'll turn the conference now to Susan Johnson. Please go ahead.

SUSAN JOHNSON, IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our third-quarter conference call. It is great to have you with us this morning. I am Susan Johnson, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T.

Joining me on the call today is John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility. John will cover our Consolidated and Wireline results and Ralph will give us an update on our Wireless business. Then we will follow with Q's and A's.

Let me remind you our (inaudible) materials are available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is www.ATT.com\investor.relations.

I always need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three. This presentation and comments may contain forward-looking statements. They are subject to risks; results may differ materially. Details are in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

Before I turn the call over to John, let me quickly cover our Consolidated financial summary, which is on slide four. Reported EPS for the quarter was $0.63, $0.02 higher than last year's third quarter, and when you exclude our divested Ad Solutions unit, we are up $0.03 or 5% for the quarter and 8% year to date.

Revenue growth continues to be solid. When you exclude the divested Advertising Solutions business, Consolidated revenues were up 2.6% year-over-year, thanks to strong revenue growth in Wireless, continued gains in U-verse Services and growth in Strategic Business Services.

Consolidated margins were down slightly year over year due to higher smartphone sales. And cash flow was very impressive. In fact, it was at record levels. Cash flow from operating activities for the quarter totaled $11.5 billion, and free cash flow was $6.5 billion.

We aggressively bought back shares as part of our repurchase program. Through the end of last week, we have bought back more than 271 million shares for $9.4 billion.

With that overview, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens. John.

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Susan, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for being with us today. Before we get to detailed results, let's start with a quick overview. Highlights are on slide five.

During the quarter, we continued doing an excellent job of growing the business, transforming our revenue streams and improving our cost structure. We had solid revenue growth, Consolidated, Wireless and Consumer Wireline. We grew earnings, and we had our best free cash flow ever, both in the quarter and year-to-date.

We also took a significant step to improving our funding status for our pension plans. Last week, we filed an application with the Department of Labor that seeks authorization to voluntarily contribute a $9.5 billion preferred equity interest in AT&T Mobility into the pension plan trust. We see this as a win-win situation for investors, our employees and our retirees.

This will increase funding well above the required level by law and further assure the long-term health of our pension fund. We will collaborate with the Department of Labor to provide any details it might need and work to obtain approval before the end of 2013.

As we look at our operations, Wireless had another strong quarter. Ralph will give you more details in a moment. But the headline was strong revenue growth, led by the mobile Internet, including our strongest postpaid ARPU growth in six quarters. And U-verse continues to be a great success story for us. We continue to add subscribers at a rapid clip. We now have 7.4 million total U-verse subscribers, both TV and high-speed Internet. This drove our ninth consecutive quarter of Consumer Wireline revenue growth and our strongest growth in more than four years.

So the team is executing at a high level. Financial results are solid. We've taken steps to improve our capital structure, and all this puts us in a great position to continue delivering strong results as we finish the year.

Let's now take a look at detailed results, starting with the Consolidated revenues on slide six. As you know, the sale of our Advertising Solutions business was completed earlier this year. If you exclude Ad Solutions, Consolidated revenues were up three quarters of $1 billion or 2.6%. The drivers are mobile Internet, strong performance with U-verse and continued strength in Strategic Business Services. These growth drivers now account for 81% of our revenues in the third quarter. That is up from 78% a year ago and 75% two years ago. This was up about $1.5 billion, or more than 6%, year-over-year.

We expect this mix shift to continue as we sharpen our focus on our growth drivers and continue to successfully transform our business.

With that, I now would like to turn the call over to my good friend, Ralph de la Vega, who will give us the Wireless update. Ralph.

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT AND CEO OF AT&T MOBILITY, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. It's great to be on the earnings call once again. Before we get to the Wireless highlights, I'd like to give you a quick update on some strategic moves we made during the quarter that position us for future growth. Details are on slide seven.

First, we introduced Mobile Share, our new data plans that allow customers to share buckets of data with up to 10 different devices. Second, we accelerated our LTE build, putting us ahead of schedule with our deployment plans. And finally, we announced an incredible new portfolio of 14 LTE devices that take advantage of that network, including the launch of the iPhone 5.

Let me give you a quick overview on Mobile Share. Since we first offered this in August, we have been really excited with the results. Customer response has been incredible, early take rates have been impressive, and in fact, more than one third of Mobile Share subscribers are choosing the larger data plans of 10 gigabytes or more. Plus, all customers love having the choice to take Mobile Share plans, keeping what they have or choosing from one of our other usage-based data plans.

Now let me provide more detail on our LTE deployment with our network update on slide eight. We made tremendous progress with our LTE deployment in the third quarter. We are well on pace to more than double our LTE coverage this year, already reaching more than 135 million POPs. Download speeds for our LTE network have been blazing fast, with speeds up to 12 megabits per second, and in many markets average download speeds are even faster. You can see this LTE speed boost with our Android devices, where average download speeds have increased more than 50% since the first of the year.

With our combined LTE and HSPA+ networks, we also have the nation's largest 4G network, covering more than 285 million POPs and thousands more cities than our closest competitor.

On our 4G HSPA+ network, we are seeing download speeds of two to six megabits per second, and AT&T lets you talk and surf at the same time on the iPhone 5 and on all of our LTE smartphones.

We've also made improvements on all of our voice metrics. Our overall voice quality improved by 16% year-over-year, and our dropped call rate also improved by 34%. Having a great network is table stakes in our industry, and I also believe that we have the best selection of devices. The devices that we're introducing in the fourth quarter are on slide nine.

Our lineup for the fourth quarter includes several devices using the new Windows 8 operating system, including our exclusive Nokia Lumia 920 and Nokia Lumia 820. We will also be the only carrier offering new Windows 8 tablets from ASUS and Samsung. We also added great Android devices to our lineup, the HTC ONE X and the LG Optimus G.

And it's not just smartphones and tablets; we also offer the Samsung Galaxy camera, which allows you to shoot, edit and share photographs and video easily and quickly without connecting to a laptop or a PC. And we will soon introduce the new MiFi Liberate by Novatel, their first mobile hotspot with a touchscreen display.

Plus, we are the exclusive 4G LTE provider for the new Kindle Fire HD. Altogether, we are bringing 14 new LTE devices to our product lineup, arriving just in time for the holiday season.

But before I get too far ahead, let's take a look at this quarter's Wireless results, with a look at revenue and ARPU on slide 10. Our leadership in the mobile Internet continues to drive solid revenue results. Total Wireless revenues were up 6.6% in the quarter, and service revenues were up 4.5%, our best performance in five quarters thanks to another great quarter in Data. We also had our best postpaid ARPU growth in six quarters, growing at 2.4%. And phone-only ARPU was up almost 3%, and that is going off a much higher ARPU base than anyone else in the industry.

Helping drive that growth is our expanding postpaid smartphone base. We have now nearly 45 million of these valuable subscribers on our network, and smartphone sales continue to be strong. About 64% of our postpaid base has smartphones now, with smartphone sales making up more than 80% of postpaid sales. These smartphone subscribers are driving strong Data growth, and those details are on slide 11.

Data revenues for the quarter were $6.6 billion. That is up more than 18%, or $1 billion, year over year. Data revenues are now a $26 billion annualized revenue stream for us, and helping drive this impressive growth was another strong quarter for smartphone sales as customers continue to migrate to these devices.

One of the reasons for strong sales was the introduction of the new iPhone. But we also sold a record number of Android and Windows phones in the quarter. We sold 6.1 million smartphones in the quarter, and that compares to sales of 4.8 million the year-ago third quarter.

We've added 1.4 million high-value smartphone subscribers in the quarter and more than 8 million over the past year. We also had another successful iPhone launch quarter. We had 4.7 million activations this quarter, with about 18% of those subscribers new to AT&T. And our iPhone 5 sales were about twice that of our closest competitor.

We also continue to bring in more subscribers on to our network with usage-based data plans. More than 28 million, or about two thirds of our smartphone subscribers, are in usage-based plans. That is 10 million more than a year ago.

Our Mobile Share plans are growing strong and early sales have been positive. Nearly 2 million subscribers have signed up for Mobile Share plans in the first five weeks they have been available. And take rates on the higher data plans are stronger than expected; more than one third of our Mobile Share subscribers are taking plans of 10 gigabytes or higher, and about 15% of the new Mobile Share subscribers are changing over from unlimited data plans. Let's take a look at churn and subscriber gains on slide 12.

Postpaid churn also improved year-over-year to 1.08%, continuing positive trends. In fact, that's our best-ever third-quarter postpaid churn. And smartphone churn is even lower, less than 1%, even with a new product launch. One reason for the lower churn is the large number of customers on family or business plans and the newly-launched Mobile Share plans. This continues to be a strong point, with almost nine out of 10 smartphone subscribers on one of these plans. And these customers tend to be sticky, with churn well below our average.

We continue to add new customers, about 700,000 total net adds in the quarter, and our postpaid net adds were 151,000. We had a record number of iPhone pre-orders and tremendous customer demand in the 10 days of the quarter that the device was available, but we faced significant supply constraints on the iPhone 5 in the third quarter, which clearly affects our net adds. We have by far the largest base of iPhone customers, and each time there is a new iPhone, we see strong and immediate demand for it. But given the limited supply, the vast majority of third quarter iPhone sales went to existing customers, where there was considerable pent-up demand.

We anticipate that if we receive additional iPhone inventory, the percent of gross adds from smartphone sales will increase, as they have in past iPhone launches.

We also anticipate a higher number of net adds from tablets in the fourth quarter. Now let's look at Wireless margins. Details are on slide 13.

This quarter's iPhone launch 5 impacted margins compared to a year ago. These are premium subscribers for us, and they bring lower churn, higher ARPUs and strong data growth. But at the same time, we've taken several steps to support margins, even with strong sales. This includes our new upgrade policy, and we are just now seeing the full impact. Even during an iPhone launch quarter, upgrades held steady at about 7%, and we had changes in upgrade fees and early upgrade charges. These changes, as well as more smartphone sales, helped drive a 28% increase in equipment revenue. And you see these initiatives paying off this quarter.

Two years ago, we sold about the same number of smartphones that we did this quarter, but our margins this quarter were more than 300 basis points higher. Nothing shows the value of our smartphone base better than that.

As we head into the seasonally-strong fourth quarter, we expect continued strong sales of smartphones. But even with these expected sales, we are on track with our original guidance to improve margins over 2011, targeting 40%. Year-to-date service margins now stand at 42.5%.

We are really excited about the momentum in our Wireless business, our growth opportunities and the many great devices that we are launching and our blazing fast LTE network. With that, John, I'll turn it back to you to discuss our Wireline results.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Ralph. Now let's move to Wireline, starting with Consumer, which you can see on slide 14. Consumer turned in another solid quarter. Revenue growth continues to accelerate. We had 2% revenue growth in the quarter, our best performance in more than four years and our ninth consecutive quarter of growth.

Once again, the story here is the incredible growth of U-verse. U-verse is now a $9.5 billion annualized revenue stream, growing at more than 38% year-over-year. We now have 7.4 million total U-verse subscribers; that's both video and high-speed Internet. That includes 4.3 million video subscribers, with almost 200,000 added in the third quarter alone. And we added more than 600,000 U-verse broadband subs in the quarter, bringing our total year-to-date to almost 2 million.

This increase in U-verse broadband subs helped drive total Wireline broadband ARPU up almost 10% year-over-year.

U-verse has transformed our Consumer revenue mix. IP revenues now account for 59% of Consumer revenue, up from 51% a year ago and 43% just two years ago. And IP revenues continue to grow at more than 17% year-over-year.

The success of U-verse establishes our ability to compete and gain share, and gives us confidence as we continue the transformation of the Wireline business.

Now let's move to Business on slide 15. This quarter's results continue the trends we began to see last quarter. Wireline Business revenues were down 2.6% this quarter. That compares to a decline of 2.2% in the year-ago third quarter.

Last quarter, we talk about some Business customers being hesitant to pull the trigger on buying decisions due to concerns with the economy, and this is essentially what we saw this quarter, as well. There are many reasons for this. There is a slowdown in government spending. There is uncertainty over tax policy and real concerns over the fiscal cliff. So overall, just a lot of uncertainty clouding business decisions.

We, like every other business, hope to have some clarity soon. But in the meantime, we continue to focus on growing the parts of the business where customers are investing, such as on productivity, while at the same time keeping a tight control on spending.

Strategic Business Services -- that's product such as ethernet, VPNs and application services -- were up 11.4% for the quarter. And data revenues continue to grow even in this challenging environment. IP data revenues were up more than 3% year-over-year.

Business Wireline margins also improved year-over-year, thanks to an excellent job by the Business team of keeping expenses in check.

So we have some bright spots even in a challenging economy, but we look forward to more clarity in the economy to get this business growing again.

Now, let's look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 16. As you can see, strong smartphone sales had an impact on our Consolidated margins as well. For the third quarter, our Consolidated margin was 19.2%. That compares to 19.8% in the year-ago quarter, which did not include an iPhone launch. And if you look at year-to-date Consolidated margins, we are ahead of last year's pace.

Wireline operating income margins improved from a year ago. Helping offset declines in legacy services were improving revenue trends in Consumer, solid cost management and execution of our One AT&T cost initiatives.

We also made progress on several contracts with our represented employees. We reached an agreement with the Midwest region in the Legacy T contracts. We also reached healthcare agreements with 40,000 mobility employees, and we continue to work on contracts with the other regions.

One of the innovative features in our approved contracts is our success-sharing plan. While this plan does increase costs this quarter and year to date, it is worth it, as it better aligns our Wireline workforce with our shareholders.

Now let's move to cash flow, which is a great story for us this quarter. Our summary is on slide 17.

Through the first nine months of the year, cash from operations totaled $28.9 billion. We are meeting and exceeding our build targets, with capital expenditures at $13.8 billion, with more than half of that invested in the Wireless business. And free cash flow before dividends was $15.1 billion, a 22% increase from a year ago, a record performance for us. And dividend payments totaled $7.7 billion.

With our strong year-to-date results, we now expect free cash flow to come in at $18 billion or higher for the year.

In terms of uses of cash, total debt is down $7.5 billion over the past four quarters, with a debt-to-capital ratio of 38.6% and a net-debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA ratio of 1.42. At the same time, we have aggressively pursued our authorized share buyback.

In the third quarter, we repurchased more than 100 million shares, and we continue to buy back shares. Through the end of last week, we had repurchased 271 million shares of our initial 300 million share authorization for about $9.4 billion.

When you look at both dividends and the stock buyback, we returned more than $17 billion to our shareholders. And as you may recall, our Board has authorized a second 300 million share buyback in July. This demonstrates our commitment to prudently restructure our balance sheet, to return value to shareholders, and our confidence in our ability to continue to generate cash.

Our record cash flow gives us the flexibility to invest in the business or to retire debt, our balance sheet is sound, our debt metrics are solid and all the time, we are returning substantial value to our shareholders.

Before we get to your questions, I'd like to take a moment to update you on where we stand on guidance that we first gave you in January. The details are on slide 18. In January, we laid out a solid growth plan, and we are on track. We are growing revenues, expanding margins and increasing earnings in line with those expectations.

In Wireless, we are also on pace to improve Wireless Service margins, and we are still targeting 40%. And increased postpaid ARPU is more than 2% for the year. In Wireline, we still expect stable Wireline margins, even in this challenging economy. And thanks to an outstanding performance by our U-verse team, we actually are ahead of our forecast for Consumer Wireline revenue.

We did expect Business Wireline to return to growth this year, but as we told you last quarter, that recovery is taking longer than we anticipated. And as I just mentioned, we expect free cash flow to be $18 billion or higher.

At the same time, capital expenditures for the year are now expected to come in slightly lower than previously thought, at the low end of the $19 billion to $20 billion range. That is thanks to our team being more efficient with our spending. They are doing more with less. And as Ralph told you, we are ahead of our LTE deployment schedule. So we are doing this while still meeting all our network build goals.

We also have been buying back shares aggressively with available cash, while keeping our debt metrics solid. Bottom line, we are seeing a solid performance this year's, even in a challenging economy.

Susan, that concludes our prepared remarks. I think we are ready for Q&A.

SUSAN JOHNSON: Thank you, John. Let me turn it back to the operator. John, I think we are now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning. John, I wonder if you could just spend a couple of minutes talking through the rationale behind the actions you were taking on improving the pension funding position, and why you chose that solution versus, say, other solutions.

And then Ralph, perhaps you could give us more color on the Mobile Share. What are you seeing in terms of changing behavior? Are people really started to add more devices now, such as tablets, to their plans? And is the share of decisions and the dilution, if any, sort of in line with expectations? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Good morning, Simon, and thank you for your questions. With regard to the pension funding, quite frankly, it is a fairly direct collection of issues that we are trying to address. First and foremost, the Company had made some commitments to our beneficiary -- to our employees and our retirees on pensions, and we are going to make sure we live up to those.

Secondly, we had -- we wanted to resolve the issue not a year at a time, but far into the future. Third, if we would have put a large amount of cash into the plan, there would have been challenges with how the fiduciaries would have invested that and where to put it, and what better place to put it than our own Wireless business.

So that was the backdrop of the idea. We've discussed this with representatives of the DoL and had positive conversations with them on the possibility. When you put it all together, and you can, if you will, solve or resolve funding for many, many years to come, in a very cash-efficient manner and join your employees in a form of ownership in your best business, we believe it is a win for everybody.

I will tell you we were really thrilled by the comments of the CWA out of their national office and their support for it. And as a sidebar, our response from our employees and our retiree base has been great. They've been thrilled by it.

But those are the backdrops. It is financially efficient, it's cash efficient, it's tax efficient, but most importantly, it funds the commitments we've made to our employees and our retirees for a long time to come. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Thank you, John. And Simon, the results from our Mobile Share plans are just fantastic. I am just thrilled with what we have seen early on.

First, as we've mentioned on the call, the take rate, 2 million in five weeks, is outstanding. The fact that one third or more of our subs are taking the 10-gigabyte or higher plan says that the ARPU that we were expecting from these plans is actually higher than what we expected. So we don't anticipate these plans being dilutive; and in fact, it has yet to be play out, but they could be accretive. And you're seeing the ARPU, as we reported, reflect some of that.

In addition to that, I mentioned something that is also very unique is that we are seeing about 15% of subscribers move from unlimited to Mobile Share plans. I think the more customers we have on usage-based plans, the better we are. And so I am just really thrilled.

But what it really does for our future, Simon, is as we head into the fourth quarter, we are going in with a nice base of Mobile Share customers, and then we are making available what I think is the industry's best lineup of tablets -- the full lineup of Apple, the fall lineup of Android, and then the exclusive launches for the Amazon Fire HD and for the Windows 8 tablet. So I think we are going to have a really nice quarter, with significant additions of tablets as a result of our Mobile Share, our progress.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. Ralph, I've got a question for you on the Wireless side and the iPhone. Have you this far into the quarter seen those supply constraints that you had talked about, that shifted the sales into the base from gross add. Has that changed at all, or are you -- do you have better visibility in terms of volumes into the holiday season? And have you seen that percentage that goes into the base versus into gross ads, has that started to shift?

Secondly, you listed a couple of drivers in terms of ARPU growth. I think smartphone mix is one of them. Is this a rate -- you are above the guidance right now. Do you think this is a rate that can accelerate from here, or is this how we can expect ARPU trends to continue through the next couple quarters? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, I think that what is happening with supplies of iPhones during a launch is what we typically have experienced. In this first few weeks after a launch, there typically is a supply constraint, and then it usually eases up; and I don't expect this iPhone launch to be any different.

We have seen -- what happens during an iPhone launch, there is a huge spike in orders and then they slow down and they get more reasonable, because of the process that we use. And we are seeing already that happen. So I feel very comfortable that we are in a position where we will be able to add additional customers as supply becomes available. We actually have seen, in days which we have supply available, reach 5000 or 10,000 net adds in a day compared to days that we don't. So we see that the net additions are fluctuation of inventory more so than anything else. And we are pretty confident, like in other launches, that inventory will become available, and we are going to do even better in the fourth quarter.

In terms of the smartphone mix, I love what we have done. As we mentioned in the report, we've added 1.4 million smartphones in the quarter, which means we've actually converted customers as well, customers that were paying us feature phone revenues, and are almost doubling their revenues to us, as to that 1.4 million smartphones. So I am very pleased with the mix as we reported. We've sold over 6 million smartphones in the quarter, which is up 1.2 million over a year ago and up 900,000 over the past quarter. So I feel really good that we are improving the mix of smartphones, which is a platform for future growth. And which, by the way, John, we look forward to meeting with you on November 7 and talking to you beyond the current quarter and the current year how we are going to use that smartphone platform to grow a host of other services that will allow us to grow ARPU.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, guys. Thanks. I guess two; one for Ralph. First of all, the voice device is flat. It is driven by iPhone, but there is essentially no growth in the voice business today or in the industry overall. How do you think about this going forward? Are people looking for voice growth? Are we just looking at it the wrong way, and really we should be focused on tablets for industry growth going forward? Or do you think there is sort of a natural level of voice growth available in the industry?

And then for John, you are buying back stock at the quarter at an amazing pace, but you are buying it back at multiyear highs on the stock. Are there other potential things to do with this cash, whether that be sort of invest it back in the business and try and drive the business a little faster even? Or is that just not really possible? Or are there are potentially acquisitions out there over the next year that you might start thinking about alternative uses? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: If you would, Phil, let me answer first, and then I'll ask Ralph. First of all, with regard to the stock buybacks, I think one thing you have to take into account with regard to the process is. for example, the shares we bought earlier in the year, we've already saved $0.44 or $0.88 or $1.32 in dividends this year alone. Because of our dividend rate, the cash that comes back to the Company come and lowers the price of the shares very quickly. That's one point.

Two, we do a very disciplined approach on looking at our net present value of our cash flows out of our business and our business plans. We compare that to, quite frankly, what analysts and independent people think of the value of our stock. And then third, we compare it to our difference between our cash cost of debt and our cash cost of equity. It is a very disciplined process and we follow that closely in making all our decisions to buy back shares.

Third, we have great financial flexibility. Maybe I wasn't forthright -- but our debt ratios have actually come down. We continue to have great capacity in our balance sheet as we've lowered our net debt to EBITDA to 1.4, and our debt to equity is well below 40%.

So we've been buying back these shares with, so to speak, cash that would be sitting on the balance sheet. But you can see with what we've done with spectrum and so forth that there is no lack of our ability to buy or to invest in our business. We are putting close to $14 billion in CapEx in the first three quarters. We are investing in the business.

Let me -- I'm sorry -- do you have a follow-up to that?

PHIL CUSICK: No, that's great.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take the revenue question though, too. I am a little -- I understand the customer count issues and so forth, but I really want to make a point from simply a financial perspective, a finance guy's perspective. Revenue growth at 6.6%, Service revenue growth at 4.5%, ARPU growth at 2.4% and when you take out the data-only devices, ARPU growth of 3%. What is not to like about a business in this economy that is growing revenue line that, especially when things like churn are down and your network build plans are ahead of schedule and your quality of your network is operating continues to improve at a rapid rate? There's a lot of things to like here, and there is a lot of different metrics to look at.

I'll let Ralph kind of realign whatever I've said, but it's really important, from simply a finance perspective, revenue growth in this environment at a 6% clip is pretty impressive.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Phil, I'm glad that we keep our CFO happy, but actually, it gets even better than what John told you. Because what I really love about what we are taking in terms of an approach to our business is we are taking this massive data growth, and then we are building products and services on top of that.

One of the best examples I can give you is our launch of Digital Life that will happen next year. And it again leverages this huge smartphone database and adds services on top of it, not just data access, but services that differentiate us from the competition. So you're talking about connecting the home with service automation and security and monitoring. We're talking about connecting your car with all kinds of infotainment services. And so I see this huge level of services that are over and above the basic access. And so I think the future growth is in data, but also services that we are going to layer on top of that great smartphone platform.

JOHN STEPHENS: And that data growth, that's why it is so important that we've got almost 30 million of our customers on tiered data plans, and that three quarters of them are buying the higher-priced plans, keeping them happy and giving them the quality service they want.

PHIL CUSICK: That's great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi, guys. Thanks a lot. Maybe just a first question for Ralph. I know we are digging in a lot on ARPU and voice trends. But thinking about the ARPU re-acceleration, you guys had the lowest voice ARPU decline on a percentage basis since second quarter 2011. Just trying to get a sense of what you're seeing. Are people not pricing down to the buckets now like they were over the past year or so? And is there also a connection potentially producing less family plan pressures going forward?

And then a second one for John, if I can. Looking at the deferred taxes resulting from the pension change, how should we frame that sort of looking at the share repo as we look into 2013? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, I think some of the things driving our pricing are the price moves we made almost a year ago, where we increased our data pricing, and that is driving revenue growth. But we are also seeing people sign up for more data. And the fact is as you sell more smartphones or more tablets, people need more data. And the fact that we have a base that I think is the largest base in the industry with usage-based data pricing means as usage goes up, we can see some of that lift also coming from additional ARPU.

So not only do we feel good where we are, but I feel really good about where we are going, because you got to have that base of usage base in order to be able to monetize the data growth that we foresee in the future.

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, specifically to Ralph's point, our team addressed the voice and texting issues last year, and we went to a free mobile-to-mobile plan last year, and we lived through the effects of that, took that head on and aggressively faced it. We are seeing the benefits of those decisions and those strategies that our mobile team put in place paying off today in higher ARPU growth.

With regard to deferred taxes and the pension plan, the pension plan contributions, as all pension plan contributions, are going to be deductible, and they are going to provide tax benefits from that perspective. That was part of our decision-making.

In the sense of lowering your cash taxes, you're going to strengthen your balance sheet, you're going to strengthen your cash flows, and that will all be taken into account as we make these regular evaluations of our buyback strategy. So certainly it will be taken into account. I don't mean to claim it will make a decision one way or the other, but it is an important piece of it.

And quite frankly, in an environment where there is some hope that in the next few years, corporate tax rates may come down, it's important to take advantage of deductions at this time. I hope that was responsive.

MIKE MCCORMACK: That's great. Thanks, John. Thanks, Ralph.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the questions. A question for Ralph and a question for John. First, Ralph, if you could talk about the change in customer behavior with respect to device replacement. If you go back historically, it seems like the average for years was 24 months, plus or minus, for a replacement cycle for a device. And it seems like it is lengthening significantly here.

I was wondering what your thought is on that. Is it just the change to upgrade fees or policies, or is there something more profound happening, where customers want to keep their devices for a longer period of time?

And John, just going back to the enterprise side, you mentioned about some of the uncertainty clouding business decisions. And I was wondering what effect that has on pricing. Do you see some of your competitors trying to get more aggressive on pricing to force a decision from the customers in these RFP processes that you are going through? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: This is Ralph. Let me address the issue on what we are seeing with customer upgrade cycles. First of all, I think some of the policy changes that we put in definitely have impacted some of that behavior. And our approach is to give the customers a choice. If they want to get an earlier upgrade, they can do so by paying us an appropriate amount.

But we also have done some research, Mike, that addresses that issue of is just customer behavior in general changing. And we are seeing a slight change. We do see some customers that don't want to go through the upgrade process, and they are very happy with their devices. It is a smaller number than you would think, but we are beginning to see a trend with some customers that they are just as happy to keep the devices. If you look at some of the latest changes, maybe they don't perceive them as being so significant that they need to upgrade and go through that process.

And so we are seeing a slight change, with a small number of customers that are holding onto their devices longer, and they are real happy, they are not churning, they are staying with us. And that is also fine with us.

JOHN STEPHENS: With regard to the enterprise side, on the competitive landscape and the uncertainty, quite frankly, in individual contract and proposal situations, we may see some unique or unusual pricing. But across the board, we are not seeing that. We are seeing the decision-making process not being driven by the pricing aspect, but more being driven by this uncertainty.

And so we have generally seen a rational -- what I will describe as a rational pricing environment. I won't tell you it is 100%. It will never be that. There will always be unique situations. But generally speaking, rational, and the lack of buying decisions are based on the customer's uncertainty over the environment.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks, guys. Following up on that, Ralph, for the maybe specific subsidies per device, how do you see that kind of trending out the next few years? And I guess particularly with the Android, it looks like it is catching up to the iPhone a little bit. Can you see those subsidies come down?

And maybe just on that point, is there any way really to reduce the subsidies on the iPhone? John, would you be willing to go above 1.5 times debt to EBITDA? It seems really conservative in this environment. Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Tim, we work every day to look for devices that cost less and carry less subsidy, and we are definitely seeing some very nice devices these days that have all the features that customers want with less subsidy than we have seen actually in prior years. So we like the lineup that we have with Lumia devices coming in from Nokia. They are very nice devices, and they fit that same mold.

So I see more and more devices coming to market that give us the opportunity to continue to work on subsidies, which is something that is at the top of mind, but the way we want to do it is to have a great device that customers love, that carry less subsidy for us. We are not trying to scrimp on what we give the customer.

So I feel very good that there is going to be opportunities to drive that down in the future as a result of this great technology that we are seeing where the devices have great technology and they are actually cheaper to make and so we can pass some of those savings on to the consumer and some of them we can use to actually reduce our subsidies.

JOHN STEPHENS: Tim, with regard to the 1.5 times debt to EBITDA, quite frankly we are still operating in that environment and with that as a policy guideline. But with regard specifically to your question, I think you're right on. I think it is a very reasonable question to ask.

Let me give you these insights. One is we have been very aggressively refinancing our debt as quickly as we can. We've called and refinanced over $8 billion worth of debt this year alone, so our average interest costs are coming down. You saw that in the third quarter results and even in the third quarter interest expense results we included some call premiums are included in the interest expense line or it would have even been more favorable. So the cost, the interest rate we are paying comes down, which implies that there should be some flexibility with that net debt to EBITDA ratio.

The reality of it is at this point in time is our cash flows have been so strong that they have allowed us to buy back all the shares we've decided to buy back with existing cash, while not only holding but quite frankly improving debt to EBITDA. But very directly, we actively look at it, we actively look at not just from the traditional debt ratio standards, but also from the cost of interest and how that might affect our ability to establish debt ratios. And we will continue to evaluate that. Right now we are staying with our policy.

TIMOTHY HORAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Couple questions, maybe first for John, just on cash flow, the extra sort of $2 billion plus. Maybe you can help us just think through granularity on the bridge to get there, between sort of better operating profit levels versus lower cash taxes, lower CapEx, et cetera.

And then second question for Ralph. I think one of the most interesting stats in the release, as you pointed to, is one third of Mobile Share subs taking 10 gigs or higher. When you look at that compared to wired broadband averages, which are sort of in that range, does this cause you to think differently about how these products compete with wired? And maybe as an extension, as you guys look to review rural lines and prospects for sales divestitures or upgrading, if you are seeing this type of acceptance on wireless data, can this be an effective solution for home broadband maybe in rural territories? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Jason, let me take the cash flow question. We were at $15 billion to $16 billion, and we are now at $18 billion or higher. So I will -- we use that -- we are raising our guidance $2 billion to $3 billion.

If you look at where the pieces of that come from, certainly a piece of it comes from the fact that our network and our capital build guys are really being efficient with capital. They are getting all their jobs done. In fact, they are getting more ahead of plan, but they are doing it with less. Our pricing units -- unit costs are better, our cycle times are better. Just a whole lot of activity there. So a piece of that is going to come from certainly that, and we are real pleased with that. Because I want to keep focused on, they are ahead of schedule with their build targets.

Secondly, we are putting a lot of emphasis on working capital management across the Company. We certainly have a lot of experience on the tax side, and we we've done that for -- in that area, continued to do that. But we are also doing it on management of receivables and prepaid expenses.

Ralph seems to do a great job of managing inventory. We continue to manage our payables process. And when you are a company as large as us, where you commonly have $15 billion or so of receivables or $10 billion worth of payables, you can work effectively with your partners, with your customers and with your vendors to really improve working capital. That is where a lot of the improvement is coming from, and we believe we can not only maintain that going forward, but I'm optimistic that we can continue to improve upon it.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: And Jason, concerning the performance of our data plans and LTE in general compared to wired broadband, I am thrilled, first of all, with the performance of our network. We said it was averaging five to 12 megabits per second, but quite frankly, it is much higher in some markets; we just are being conservative on what to say. But when you compare it to even WiFi in some cases, it is even faster. So it is performing in an incredible, incredible way.

And then to add to that the response that we have seen on Mobile Share say absolutely that I think there is a place where -- in some rural areas where, as you outlined, that it could serve as an alternative to wired broadband. Certainly in the terms of speed and reliability and flexibility, it is absolutely very, very possible. And we are going to be talking to you about that on November 7, giving you more details about our thinking of how we can use this technology. And quite frankly, the customer reception to the technology in terms of their willingness to pay for great quality data in large amounts, on November 7, when we meet with you and give you more guidance on our future growth plans.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That's helpful. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Ralph, maybe two questions for you, if I could. First is, one of the things that has really helped this sector and I think people get very comfortable with these stocks has been the kind of fairly rational read improving price environment that the sector's enjoyed for the last year or so.

But as we've pointed out here today, there is a slowness in the postpaid industry. Your net adds this quarter were 10% of what Verizon's net adds were. And I'd like to get a sense as to kind of how you feel about that situation and what levers exists for AT&T to pull to move that more in your favor, as opposed to letting Verizon kind of get all the industry growth that is out there to be gotten.

And then second, obviously looking downmarket, things are changing quite a bit with the T-Mobile-PCS deal and Softbank trying to put $20 billion to work in the industry. Is there anything about these lower-end competitors trying to shore up their financial resources and their scale that makes you think differently about the next year or two about how AT&T's behavior in terms of pricing and competition might be changing? Thanks a lot.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Let me first address the pricing rationale. I think I am very comfortable with the pricing that we've put in place. I think it is very competitive, and I think these Mobile Share plans are very compelling to customers. And I think those that don't put them in in the industry will probably have to rethink down the road, because I think the reception has been exceptional.

We mentioned that this quarter was a bit unique for us, Dave, in that we had 10 days of an iPhone launch. And in those first 10 days, what we see is a preponderance of iPhone customer -- existing iPhone customers, which happen to be the best customers we have, the most loyal, with the highest ARPU, sign up in record numbers and use up the available inventory. I think that's actually a good sign, because it says that our customer base is loyal to AT&T and staying loyal to AT&T, and it's actually reflected in the postpaid churn numbers, which are the best postpaid churn numbers for any third quarter in the Company's history.

So if you're trying to grow customers, the first thing you got to do is retain your base, and we are doing that. When we get additional inventory and when we go into the fourth quarter with a great lineup of tablets and our Mobile Share base, I am very certain that we are going to improve our performance compared to where we were in the third quarter in terms of net customer additions.

But what I love about the strategy we have, Dave, is that we are not reliant on connecting more people or playing the traditional postpaid net adds game. What we are going to talk to you on November 7 is how we are planning to grow the business by layering services like Digital Life on top of this great base of customers that we have.

Those services are not dependent on adding more customers per se, but connecting more houses, connecting more cars and connecting more things that drive significant revenue streams with good margins for us, and a position which I think we hold the lead in the industry in, as we will share with you on November 7. So this is what I see in our future and I feel very confident about that.

In terms of what we see happening with others in the industry, I don't think anything we have seen changes our plan. We are going to execute our plan, and we are going to let others react to our plan instead of us reacting to them. But I feel very comfortable that we have the right strategy, both short-term and long-term, to continue to grow this business.

And I tell you, I am just thrilled that the network is performing as well as it is. We are seeing great reception to our LTE services and data plans. We are driving -- if you look at our postpaid churn, significant improvement in postpaid churn, the best we've ever had. You look at ARPU, my gosh, the service ARPU being in terms of ARPU growth the best in six quarters, postpaid ARPU growth, that says that the strategy we are driving is the right strategy, and we are going to continue to drive that. And if you look at John Stephens, he is really happy with the cash flow we are delivering. So I think it all bodes well for us.

SUSAN JOHNSON: John, I think we've got time for just one more question.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. You talked a little bit about some of the reasons why your capital spending is running a bit lower this year. I'm wondering whether the capital efficiency of the LTE network is a part of that or if is just too early.

And then could you just remind us what is involved in your initial LTE upgrade? If I remember this correctly, you are touching a fairly significant number of your cell sites as part of this initial buildout process. The reason I'm asking is I'm wondering if when you get to the tail end of this late next year, you might be set up to see your CapEx in Wireless move down a notch.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take a shot at it, and I'll ask Ralph to make sure we give you clarity with regard to the specifics of the network build. First and foremost, we are seeing efficiencies throughout our CapEx program from our procurement efforts, our price per unit efforts, our One AT&T cost initiatives, which [we call or should] costing process. We are seeing it across all network programs.

But because LTE is such a large piece of the network spend this year, we are seeing it there.

Secondly, with some prudent planning both from our marketing and sales guys on the demand aspects and our network guys on supply aspects of a quality network, we've been able to be really efficient with capacity that we are building in our 3G and 4G network as opposed to new capacity we are building on LTE, and that has worked quite well.

I'd expect us to be able to continue to provide efficiency in this. I think great work, but I think there is more to come. I think it will get better.

With regard to our LTE build, I believe we've publicly stated we are touching 90% of the cell sites in any market that we convert to LTE. So we are doing what I would consider a rather dense or rather complete conversion. We are not doing what some other companies are doing with regard to a more scarce buildout. I think that goes to the quality of speeds that Ralph talked about, where they are far in excess of the five to 12 meg speeds that we had talked about previously.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Brett, I just wanted to add to what to what John has said, that the network team has done a fantastic job of building out great coverage with great reliability at a really low cost. In addition to that, the products and services that are rolling out are some of the best that we have seen. The iPhone 5, for example, has some of the lowest dropped call rates in this network environment that we have seen of almost any phone.

So we think as we move customers to our LTE network, it improves their service, it gives them great data, it actually improves the voice performance, and at the same time, it relieves our HSPA+ network, and the HSPA+ network gets better, and we think the churn will be lower.

So I am very, very bullish on what this is going to do, and we are just getting started with the new products and services you are going to see from us on the great LTE network that our team is building.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Brett. As we close, I want to thank you for being with us this morning. We had a solid quarter, which gives strong momentum as we finish our year. That includes strong IP data growth in both Wireless and Wireline, solid earnings and record-breaking cash flow and free cash flow results.

Don't forget, our next webcast will be a video webcast of our Analyst Conference on November 7. I hope you can join us then as we discuss the strategic direction of our Company.

Thank you again for being on the call, and thanks, as always, for your interest in AT&T. Have a good day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference Service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i7902 : Telecommunications | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121107e8ao0035y
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  AT & T  Inc. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,444 words
   PD
26 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter 2011 earnings release. For the conference, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

   TD
With that being said, I will turn the conference now to Brooks McCorcle. Please go ahead.

BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our fourth-quarter conference call. It's really great to have you with us this morning. As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T and on the call joining me this morning are Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Randall will provide opening comments, then John will cover our results and then we'll follow with Qs and As.

Let me remind you that our earnings material is available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. As a reminder, that is www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to reference our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3, and that says that this presentation and comments may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and details are in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

With that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Randall Stephenson. Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks. Good morning, everybody. I will start with just a couple of brief comments on 2011, then what I want to do is just move into our plans and outlook for 2012.

2011 was obviously an eventful year not only for us but the entire industry and what I hope didn't get lost in all the news cycles on mergers and iPhones is what AT&T accomplished during the course of the year and really how that positioned us for 2012.

We came out of 2011 with each of our key growth platforms -- mobile broadband, strategic business services, and U-verse -- all growing at strong double digits. That means better than three-fourths of our total revenues now come from wireless data and managed services, and those have a combined rate above 7%.

We had really strong mobile sales throughout the year. In fact we had a blowout holiday season and in the fourth quarter, we sold 9.4 million smart phones. That is 50% above our previous record.

In the year when our competitors began selling the iPhone, we outsold them in every single quarter. We also led all competitors in total wireless subs added, 7.7 million for the year. And we are number one in just about every key mobile broadband growth metric -- smartphones, emerging devices, postpaid data ARPU, and customers on tiered pricing plans.

And when you look at the network side of the equation, this was for us an unprecedented year. We challenged our network team to push call retainability on our 3G network above 99% by year-end and we have now hit or beat that three months running. We closed the year with 80% of our total mobile data traffic on Ethernet backhaul and that is well ahead of our original plan. We are pleased to have that deployment behind us because we believe we now have the most robust backhaul infrastructure in the industry and this is a backhaul infrastructure that is built for data.

On top of this infrastructure and on our HSPA+ platform, we are now deploying 4G LTE and today, we have the best data speeds in the country. The iPhone 4S on our network has download speeds that are three times our peers.

In wireline, our U-verse build is now largely complete, so we have in place an IP video and broadband platform that reaches 30 million customer locations, which gives us significant headroom now to drive penetration.

On the business side of the equation despite the economy, we have executed a very steady climb in revenue trends. We're now two straight quarters of sequential increases and we have line of sight to year-over-year growth this year. We continue to be very, very strong in terms of cash generation capabilities and operations, better than $34 billion for the year.

So with these data points, I would like to -- I like how we are set up for 2012 and as we sit here in January, I tell you we probably have the best visibility going forward that we have had in quite some time.

John is going to cover the outlook in detail, but at a very high level here is what you ought to expect from us as we go into 2012. We're going to continue to be very aggressive in growing our mobile broadband franchise. We will return to revenue growth in our business segments. We will expand wireless and consolidated margins. We'll achieve mid-single digit EPS growth or better. Cash generation continues to look very strong again next year and given the operational momentum we have in the business, all of this appears very achievable and probably at the conservative end of our expectations.

I would add that this outlook is not dependent on any kind of boost from the economy. Holiday sales suggest there's a possibility for some light tailwinds and we are hopeful for that but all the core fundamentals suggest we're looking at continued slow US economic growth and higher unemployment. So we built our plans around a fairly low growth scenario.

As we look ahead, the issue that gives me the most concern, quite frankly, isn't our ability to execute. The number one issue for us as we move forward and for the industry, I believe, continues to be spectrum. This industry continues to see just explosive mobile broadband growth and it's providing one of the few bright spots in the US economy. But I think we all understand this growth cannot continue without more spectrum being cleared and brought to market.

Despite all the speeches from the FCC, we are all still waiting. The last significant spectrum auction was nearly five years ago now and this FCC has made it abundantly clear that they will not allow significant M&A to help bridge their delays and freeing up new spectrum. So in the absence of auctions, our Company and others in the industry have taken the logical step of entering into smaller transactions to acquire the spectrum we need to meet this demand.

But even here we need the FCC's action and leadership and unfortunately even the smallest and most routine spectrum deals are receiving intense scrutiny from this FCC, oftentimes taking up to a year and sometimes longer before these are approved.

Now I hope I am wrong, but it appears the FCC is intent on picking winners and losers rather than letting these markets work. A lot of recent comments and speeches about certain members of this FCC suggest that they and not Congress should decide how spectrum auctions are conducted, including who can participate and what the conditions should be for participating.

Meanwhile, we pile more and more regulatory uncertainty on top of an industry that is the foundation for a lot of today's innovation, making it difficult for all of us to allocate and commit capital. And in this industry, we all know capital investment equals jobs.

So the end result of this is we have the industry that is just really stuck in terms of creating real capacity. We will certainly do our part as we move forward to provide leadership on these issues, but it's also clearly time for Congress and the FCC to step up.

And in the interim, this environment has a lot of clear implications for our business and these are in three different areas.

First, while our current overall spectrum position is competitive, we have led the way in mobile data and therefore our utilization rates are running very hot and demand continues to accelerate, so we will continue to do a number of things. In a capacity-constrained environment, usage-based data plans, increased pricing, managing the speeds of the highest volume users, these are all logical and necessary steps to manage utilization.

LTE deployment is also going to play a role. We ended 2011 with 74 million LTE POPs covered and we'll accelerate the pace considerably in 2012, setting us up to complete our deployment to 80% of the US population in 2013. LTE does give us a 30% to 40% lift in network efficiency but at current growth rates, that equates to only about a year's increase in traffic. So while LTE is important, it is not the silver bullet in terms of capacity planning.

What that means is to meet customer demand we have to continue our push to add spectrum in the open market. You will see us being active there and we will continue to advocate for more open auctions as soon as possible.

And then second in this environment, we will accelerate our efforts to improve our overall growth profile. We will do that by looking at opportunities to either divest or restructure low performing and nonstrategic assets.

You have seen us do this in the last year or two with our Sterling Commerce sale and the restructure of our Telmex Holdings and you will see more of these actions over the next 24 months.

Third, given the economic and regulatory situation, it makes sense for us to begin to resume our share repurchase plan. We currently have a 300 million share authorization. That is about 5% of our shares outstanding and we will begin to execute on that immediately. As we go through the year, our Board will likely evaluate further actions.

So our cash flow is strong. The balance sheet is rock solid. We reduce total debt by $6.5 billion in the fourth quarter alone and this gives us a lot of flexibility and a lot of capacity to return value to our owners.

So with that, I'm going to turn it over to John to cover results and I will stick around for Q&A.

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP AND CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Randall, and good morning, everyone. Let me begin by providing a consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 6.

2011 was a story of record mobile broadband sales and solid revenue gains. Revenues were up 2% for the year and 3.6% in the fourth quarter alone. Stronger-than-expected smartphone sales also impacted earnings and margins.

In the fourth quarter, we reported earnings per share of a negative $1.12. Excluding $1.54 of mainly noncash one-time items, earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.42. One-time items included $0.65 of noncash pressure from the year-end mark-to-market change for our benefit plans. The actuarial loss on benefit plans was driven by a reduction in the discount rate from 5.8% to 5.3%.

While our investment returns were better than the overall market, they were less than our expectations but that was largely offset by better than expected force retention and medical cost management. $0.48 of the noncash pressure is due to assess impairments in our Yellow Page and Directory operations. This was part of an annual review of intangible assets comparing them to fair market values of similarly situated companies.

$0.44 of pressure is due to the previously announced termination of the T-Mobile USA transaction and we have $0.03 of help from a tax settlement.

Cash flow continues to be strong, $2 billion in the quarter and $14.4 billion for the year, and when you adjust out the one-time contract termination payment, it was outstanding. Looking ahead to 2012, we expect earnings to grow in the mid-single digits or better for the year.

Now let's look at revenue growth and how our growth drivers are transforming our revenue mix. Details are on slide 7. Fourth-quarter consolidated revenues totaled $32.5 billion, up 3.6%. For the year, consolidated revenues grew by almost $2.5 billion. The growth drivers were strong mobile broadband results, very good U-verse gains, and continued strength in strategic business services.

In 2011, 76% of our revenues came from wireless and wireline data and managed services. That is up from 68% or more than $10 billion from just two years ago. Revenues from these areas grew about $7 billion last year or more than 7% for 2011. We are confident this mix shift will continue. In fact, in 2012, we expect consolidated revenues to continue to grow thanks to strength in these growth drivers with little expected lift from the economy.

Now let's take a look at wireless on slide at 8. Our mobility sales channel did an outstanding job, delivering not only the best sales quarter in our history but the best smartphone sales quarter in the history of the industry. We added more than 2.5 million subscribers. This includes gains in every customer category.

Postpaid net adds were terrific with our best performance in five quarters adding 717,000 subscribers. Tablets drove prepaid net adds. Reseller sales continued to be strong and we had another 1 million plus quarter with connected devices. We did see churn increase slightly, only 6 basis points on the postpaid side during what we view as the most competitive quarter of the year.

Strong smartphone sales also drove impressive revenue growth. Total wireless revenues were up $1.5 billion or 10% and wireless service revenues increased by $0.5 billion.

We grew postpaid ARPU as we have done for every quarter for the last three years. We also grew it from a much higher based than anyone else. Our postpaid ARPU is $6 higher than our closest competitor. And in 2012, we expect postpaid ARPU to continue to grow and to grow 2% for the year, thanks in part to new pricing plans that we announced last week.

We also continue to bring more subscribers onto our network with tiered data plans, more than 22 million at the end of the quarter, with most choosing the higher priced plan. As more of our base moves to tiered plans and as data use increases, we expect our compelling ARPU growth story to continue.

Our wireless data results are on slide 9. If our mobility chief, Ralph de la Vega, was on the call today, he would say something like we had a blockbuster smartphone sales. Well, I am not Ralph but I have got to tell you, I share his enthusiasm. Our mobile broadband sales were nothing short of incredible. Our wireless teams sold 9.4 million smartphones or more than 100,000 devices a day for every single day of the quarter. That's nearly twice as many as we had in the third quarter and 50% higher than our previous record.

Smartphone subscribers now make up about 57% of our postpaid subscriber base and accounted for 82% of postpaid sales during the quarter. Much of this growth was driven by the launch of the iPhone 4S and record iPhone sales, but we also had record Android device sales, doubling sales from the year-earlier quarter.

Branded computing sales also had a best-ever performance. We added 571,000 thanks to strong tablet and tethering plan sales. We now have more than five million branded computing devices on the network.

Strong mobile broadband sales helped drive data growth. Data revenues were $22 billion in 2011, growing at 21% for the year. ARPU per smartphones continues to be strong, nearly twice that of our other devices. And about 87% of smartphone subscribers are on family or business plans. These customers are an excellent investment because they have lower churn.

I can't say enough about how well our mobility crew did in the fourth quarter. We not only held our own in a very competitive quarter but we set a new industry sales standard as well.

But you don't have these results without having a terrific network. We are committed to creating not only the world's most advanced network but also the network most open to innovation. And we made tremendous progress towards this goal; highlights are on slide 10.

First, we had a great LTE launch last year, making AT&T the only US carrier to provide 4G speeds through both LTE and HSPA+ technologies. This means we deliver the best possible blended speed, which enables a better mobile experience for our customers. This pays off big for iPhone 4S customers, with download speeds up to 3 times faster than on any other carrier's network.

You can also see the impacts of our CapEx investments in network upgrades and in expanded mobile broadband coverage. These investments are having a positive impact on our wireless quality metrics. As Randall mentioned, our average national 3G call retention has exceeded 99% since mid-September.

In 2012, we expect to double our LTE coverage with continued improvements in capacity and enhanced backhaul. We are very proud of what we have accomplished and full credit goes to our hard-working team for an incredible effort.

Now let's look at wireless margins. Details are on slide 11. As you know, the investments we made to drive record smartphone sales and record upgrades have impacted wireless margins. But you also know long-term value of these subscribers, lower churn, higher ARPUs, and strong data growth. Our strategy has been to grow this base. we continue to do while keeping existing smartphone subscribers on our network, which we did at record-breaking levels in the fourth quarter. Handset upgrades were about 12%.

Looking ahead, we expect service margins to improve in 2012. In fact I expect we will get service EBITDA margins back to 40%. Driving this will be continued strong but stabilizing smartphone sales during the year, helped in part by the full impact of the upgrade policy that was introduced last year. Additional revenues are expected from the new data pricing plans that we announced last week and greater efficiencies both in operations and billing.

This really speaks to our long-term goal of building a strong smartphone base while working to improve margins.

Now let's take a look at the wireline business, starting with consumer on slide 12. U-verse continues to drive consumer growth, six straight quarters of year-over-year revenue increases. U-verse was a $6.7 billion revenue stream in 2011. That is almost triple the revenue from just two years earlier. And in the fourth quarter, revenues grew about 44% year-over-year. And as we scale, U-verse margins continue to improve, contributing to profitability.

During the quarter, we added 208,000 U-verse subscribers to reach 3.8 million customers in service. Meanwhile our U-verse broadband net adds accelerated three times our TV additions, which includes new U-verse small-business subscribers, faster broadband speeds, plus mobility. It is a combination small business customers are looking for and AT&T's strength in both areas is a competitive advantage.

We are also seeing broadband and U-verse voice over IP attach rates remain solid. With our U-verse build largely complete, we now pass more than 30 million living units. But penetration continues to expand. We now have 25% penetration in areas marketed to for 36 months or more and we believe there is a lot of room for growth.

Our video service is recognized as the best in the business and we are growing faster than any other pay-TV provider. In 2012, we expect continued U-verse subscriber growth, helping keep consumer revenues stable.

Now let's look at wireline business, which you can see on slide 13. We have been watching revenue trends slowly get better in business even without the benefit of an improving economy. For the second quarter in a row, we had sequential revenue growth thanks to growth in our strategic business services. That is things such as Ethernet, VPNs, and application services, which were up 18.4% for the year and it's now nearly a $6 billion business.

We are seeing positive trends in almost every part of the business. Our global enterprise business had its second straight quarter of year-over-year data growth. Wholesale had its third quarter of sequential revenue growth and revenue trends and small business continue to improve, with another quarter of broadband growth. We now have 80% of our targeted central offices ready for IPDSLAM sales and we'll soon begin selling into those central offices.

This success helped wireline business margins improve year-over-year for the fourth consecutive quarter.

We expect these positive wireline business trends to continue in 2012 and that the wireline business will return to revenue growth this year thanks to growth in network sourcing, mobility applications, and virtualized services. And as we said, we expect this growth with little lift from the macro economy.

Now let's look at margins of cash flow, consolidating comparisons are on slide 14. Record-breaking smartphone sales and postpaid net adds considerably higher than initial estimates had an impact on our consolidated margins. For the year, our adjusted consolidated operating margin was 17.8%. That compares to 18.5% in 2010. Our wireline operating margins were relatively stable from 2010. We were able to offset declines in legacy services and a sluggish economy thanks to improving revenue trends, scaling IP data, and solid execution with our One AT&T initiatives. Across the business, total force was down more than 10,000 and 2011.

In 2012, we expect to expand consolidated operating margins driven primarily by wireless expansion with stable wireline margins.

Our cash flow story continues to be outstanding. Our cash summary is on slide 15. Cash from operations totaled $34.6 billion. Capital expenditures were $20.3 billion. Free cash flow before dividends was $14.4 billion, a very strong performance especially when you consider these things -- we increased capital spending during the year. We made a $1 billion contribution to the pension fund in the fourth quarter and a $3 billion payment as part of the T-Mobile transaction in the fourth quarter.

Dividends totaled $10.2 billion for the year. In terms of uses of cash, total debt is down almost $6.5 billion from the third quarter of 2011 levels with a debt to capital ratio of 38% and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.5.

As Randall mentioned, we also plan to begin aggressively buying back stock from our previously authorized share buyback.

Looking ahead in 2012, we expect capital expenditures to be about $20 billion with continued investment in our growth drivers and we expect free cash flow in the $15 billion to $16 billion range for the year.

Our balance sheet is sound. Our debt metrics solid. Our strong cash flow gives us the flexibility to invest or to retire debt while returning substantial value to shareholders.

Let me close with a quick recap of 2011 on slide 16. We executed very well this year with good momentum across our business. We grew revenues and had incredible cash flows. We set industry records for mobile broadband. Strength in strategic business services as business wireline poised for growth and U-verse drove growth in consumer wireline.

We also continue to invest in the future, almost $100 billion over the last five years. And we have done all of that while continuing to return value to our shareholders.

Let me also do a recap of 2012 guidance that we have provided throughout this call. That is on slide 17.

Looking at 2012, we have a solid strategic plan in place that will help us grow revenues, expand margins, increase earnings, while continuing to have a very strong cash flows. In wireless, we expect to expand margins while growing postpaid ARPU by 2% for the year. We expect to return wireline business to revenue growth and keep wireline consumer revenues stable while also keeping wireline margins stable.

We are targeting capital expenditures at the same level as 2011, approximately $20 billion. We expect free cash flow in the $15 billion to $16 billion range and we will again share buybacks. This is a growth-focused outlook and also reflects our ability to execute on the cost side. We expect little help from the economy, but are certainly prepared to take advantage of any opportunities that exist.

This is a time of unprecedented growth for an incredibly dynamic industry. We have a great position and a solid track record of creating value for our owners and we expect to improve on that record in 2012.

Brooks, that concludes our prepared remarks. We are ready for Q&A.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, great. Thank you, John. John, I think we are ready to open up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operation Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning. Randall, I think one of the things you were hoping to get from T-Mobile was a better prepaid platform. Prepaid is about two-thirds, 70% of the new subscribers coming on. Can you talk about how prepaid will fit into your strategy, given what Verizon or some others have done here recently for 2012?

Perhaps you could expand a little bit more on your comments about looking at underperforming assets. Might we see spinoffs of rural lines, sale of directories, is that the sort of thing we should be thinking about? Thank you.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Thank you, Simon, and good morning. On the prepaid platform, we have been rather transparent about the prepaid area in terms of when you are spectrum-constrained you get really focused on the markets you want to pursue. And we have obviously been very, very focused on the high end of the market.

The beauty of T-Mobile was it not only came with spectrum, which would allow for some efficiencies, but then a prepaid platform that would allow you to move down market. As we are getting more and more or better performance out of our network and as we move to LTE and begin to free up some of the 3G spectrum, this is probably an area that we will look to for growth, Simon. In fact we have a lot of work going on in this right now.

I would not expect or would not have you expect to see that in the next six months but when you look at the next 12 to 24 months, prepaid will obviously become a focus for us especially when you think in terms of mobile data, because mobile data, that's probably an underserved area where that segment of the market does not have a robust data offering in a prepaid environment. So that will be a focus as we begin to mine out some capacity as we move to LTE.

In terms of the underperforming assets, you hit a couple of areas. Obviously we just took a rather large charge in our directory operations to reflect a lot of the current comparable pricing in the market for those types of assets. That's one area that we're going to obviously take a very hard look at. And while I don't want to give any indication on M&A activity, it's one of these areas that we're going to have to decide, do we keep it or do we restructure it as we move forward?

So the other being rural access lines, we have been apprehensive on moving -- doing anything on rural access lines because the issue here is do you have a broadband product for rural America? We have all been trying to find a broadband solution that was economically viable to get out to rural America and we are not finding one, to be quite candid. The best opportunity we have is LTE. And we were obviously rather excited about the opportunity to use LTE to get to rural America with the T-Mobile transaction.

That having been set aside, now we're looking at rural America and asking what's the broadband solution? We don't have one right now. So you will see some activity and some structuring changes over the next couple of months that will provide some idea in terms of where we are headed.

We are going to have to either completely restructure those businesses; the cost structure has to change, not only the wage and benefit cost structure, but just the cost structure associated with the technology, legacy TDM infrastructure out there. And leaving them as they are, they will continue to be underperforming assets.

So we're going to have to make some fundamental changes and there's more to come on that. But as I said, the next 12 to 24 months will bring more clarity to that but these are areas that we as a Company have to address in short order.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Randall, maybe picking up on the spectrum issue, maybe a little bit more detail if you could on your spectrum needs. Obviously you have some runway with the new 4G net work. You said you would be more aggressive in that area over the say -- in 2012.

What kind of opportunities are out there? Is it more private companies like Aloha, or even potentially other larger companies out there that are operating businesses that have spectrum that you guys could look at? If you could just characterize the sort of environment for new spectrum that already exists.

And then maybe talk a little bit about from a frequency standpoint, obviously for you guys to lower the better, but where would you look to add spectrum? I'm basically trying to get a sense for how badly and how soon you're going to need new spectrum?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay, John, what I would tell you is the immediate timeframe in terms of through our LTE deployment through 2013 feel really good about where we are. We have got sufficient spectrum to get us through LTE deployment and then as you begin to transition off your 3G networks to LTE, it will buy you some more time in using data solutions and WiFi solutions.

But when you kind of look out and span the horizon or scan the horizon, there are no secrets. Everybody knows where this spectrum resides and who is holding it. Our biggest issue isn't identifying it and pursuing it. Our biggest issue is understanding what we are allowed to do and we are literally sitting here in a situation where we don't know how much spectrum we are allowed to hold, who we are allowed to do business with, and so forth. That was the basis of my comments in the opening session.

We have just gone through a process where we tried to get a transaction approved and the FCC came out with a report and said that we exceeded the spectrum caps in over 200 markets. You can imagine how surprised we were to read that until you read deeper into the report and realized they had changed the spectrum screens. It might have been nice to have known they were going to change those spectrum screens ahead of time, but that is what it is.

Then literally a couple of weeks later they approve our acquisition of the QUALCOMM spectrum and in reading the report, they evaluated it using the old spectrum caps. So we are literally sitting here in a situation we don't know what spectrum caps are going to apply from one transaction to the next.

So our first issue is not identifying which spectrum we go after but identifying what the rules are. How will these transactions be evaluated? Who are we allowed to do business with and who are we not allowed to do business with?

In terms of the frequencies that we are interested in, it's no surprise. We tend to favor the lower band of the 700 megahertz spectrum. We have a very, very good position in that particular location, so we obviously have a lot of interest in the spectrum that resides down there. We've done a number of transactions in that particular area since the auctions occurred in 2007. So that's obviously an important area for us.

AWS is obviously a good area for us to operate. We have launched our LTE network in the Chicago area on the AWS spectrum frequency and it's performing quite nicely. So those would obviously be the priorities but again that's -- the who and the what is not the question, it's what can we do and what are we allowed to do is the real question for us right now.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Randall.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for the questions. First on the wireless side, you've talked about the improvement in network quality but also that the network is running hot. Can you talk about the opportunities that you have to continue to manage the high quality of service to the broad base of HSPA+ customers? And what the implications are for CapEx?

And secondly a little bit more on the business side. If you just give maybe an expansion of comments in terms of what you are seeing on strategic revenue growth and what has been driving the strong growth there? And also maybe what you are seeing on the legacy service side and maybe some slowing in the rate of revenue erosion there? Thanks so much.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Sure, Michael. On the network quality side, wireless network quality, with T-Mobile behind us, we are back to blocking and tackling, if you will, and that means reinitiating significant sales splits. So we had a sale split strategy that was on hold until we got through the T-Mobile transition. So we're back to doing sale splits.

We continue to go very, very aggressively on distributed antenna system solutions and so going inside of buildings and lighting up buildings from the inside, WiFi solutions, all of these we just continue and there's no new science here per se. Obviously additional spectrum where we can pick it up is another part of the equation. And so you will continue to see us be aggressive there.

We have -- I think we had some transactions approved by the FCC last week but before last week, we had eight transactions sitting in front of the FCC waiting for approval so we could begin investing. So you'll just continue to see us do a lot of the typical blocking and tackling. You will also see us in markets where we launch LTE be very aggressive in migrating customers through the LTE platform.

And if you are buying today an Android smartphone from AT&T, you are probably buying an LTE equipped handset. So as we turn up LTE in any of these markets, you are just inherently on the LTE network, so that obviously facilitates getting us the capacity relief that we need as well. So it's going to be a number of initiatives.

In terms of the business services side, what's driving it, again there's no big secrecy here. VPNs are a huge part of this. Our business customers moving aggressively to VPN solutions and we continue to run midteen type growth rates on VPN.

The other is Ethernet and native Ethernet solutions, whether to businesses or a really big business opportunity for us right now is deploying this to cellular companies. Wireless companies are buying Ethernet to the cell site aggressively, as we told you.

We now have 80% of our mobile broadband traffic on native Ethernet. All mobile companies are trying to get there as fast as they can. We think we're way ahead of the game in this regard. The benefits from it are dramatic in terms of the throughput increases you see by getting that backhaul infrastructure in place on Ethernet. So we are seeing big opportunities there.

And then lots of opportunities in terms of new application services that are riding on top. Once you put the VPN in place, customers are buying more and more applications and services that ride on top of that, whether it be videoconferencing, telepresence and so forth but we are having a lot of success there.

So you put it all together, we continue to get 17% type growth on these strategic services and business. That's helping offset the migration that we are seeing from a lot of the legacy products, as you said.

So traditional voice continues to be in decline as you would guess. Traditional data services have really -- they are somewhat flat but data is growing in spite of a flat legacy data services. So all in, we're feeling really good about the business side of the house.

What I would remind you is that these strategic services are growing at this 17% clip and what we are seeing is still a very sluggish economy. This is not a high-growth economy. These businesses tend to invest in telecom as they hire people. These businesses have not been hiring but our spend from these companies and these services are growing.

What we are hopeful for and we are seeing some signs, it's very kind of faint signs but we are seeing some signs that maybe there's some economic tailwinds here. If we get those, then we think there's some serious upside to our business side of the house and business revenue growth.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Randall, I guess just thinking back about the introduction of the iPhone and obviously a lot has happened since then but clearly there was an expectation for improvement and proving out an NPV positive story. But maybe just help us with what the headwinds have been there because if you look back over the past couple of years on churn metrics, ARPU growth rates, and margins, it just doesn't seem like we are getting the benefits of either iPhone or smartphone penetration.

Can you just walk us -- I think voice is obviously an issue there but any other headwinds that you think that you can address as we go forward?

And then, John, just thinking about EPS guide, have you included a thought process on iPhone refresh? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Good morning, Mike, and thanks for the question. You know, I guess what I would suggest is while we have had margin pressures as we have gone deeper and deeper into the smartphone category, they continue to be high NPV product categories and in fact, the ARPUs are significantly higher than traditional mobile phone type capabilities.

To think that we are getting to 57% penetration of our smartphone base -- or of our post-paid base excuse me, with smartphones and keeping margins in that 40% range. To penetrate that deeply and keep margins at this 40% range, I actually think is better than I might've hoped for. It was a while before we had expectations that 80% of our sales would be in smartphone categories.

But to sell 80% of all of your sales being smartphones and keep margins in this 40% range for the year, actually I'm not too disappointed with that and I think it's going to prove to be a terrific platform for us.

Because here is what we are seeing, Mike, and that is you get a customer on smartphone and then you get a customer with FamilyTalk plans or family plans on smartphones, then the smartphone becomes the platform for the new services that we are now selling. Somebody buys a tablet and puts their tablet on a 3G or 4G network, that customer puts that device on the same network as their smartphone.

So we think it's going to prove to be a very important platform as we move forward. That's why we are not shying away from continuing to pursue this market. We have done some things where we have tightened up the upgrade policy to try to begin to manage the cost of the upgrades in this particular base. But all things considered, I am pleased with the smartphone category and we will continue to do things to tighten up margins as we go forward.

We also took some actions during the course of this year that had an effect on our ARPU and we believe it's going to prove to be a temporary effect on our ARPU. That is with 2011 being the year when we first had competition for the iPhone, we made some strategic moves. We introduced unlimited mobile to mobile calling if you had unlimited text plan. That proved to be a very sticky move from a pricing standpoint but it has had a negative effect on ARPU over a couple of quarters.

We are seeing that stabilize now. We don't expect to continue to see that dilution on ARPU as we move forward but that did have an effect this year that we think is largely behind us and as we move to 2012, should not continue to suppress ARPUs.

But all in, I continue to be a big-time bull on the smartphone category and iPhones in general.

MIKE MCCORMACK: I'm sorry, Randall, just as a quick follow-up on that, you had identified part of the voice pressure there but are you seeing -- obviously upgrades are running pretty high across the entire industry but are you seeing when people come into the store for the upgrade to the smartphone making decisions on how many voice minutes they want? Because it seems like -- and I've got a couple of younger kids but they just don't talk on the phone anymore, so are we seeing some of the pricing down to these lower buckets?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Without a doubt and you were seeing it from the phenomenon you just described. That is young people, it's almost uncool to talk on the phone. Texting and messaging are keys, so that has had its effect. But also when we did go to mobile to mobile calling, this will tell you how efficient these markets are. But people began to immediately -- particularly in small business, small businesses immediately rightsized their plans to reflect the mobile to mobile calling feature. And so we did see a step down very quickly. But as I mentioned, we're beginning to see that mitigate.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Thanks, Randall.

JOHN STEPHENS: Mike, with regard to your question with regard to the 2012 expectations, two points on smartphone sales with an iPhone refresh. We do have a smartphone sales flat compared to '11 in our expectations. And that is at a 25 million unit level, which is a record for us, so we did assume that we would have that same level again. And that's after we have fully implemented during this year our new handset upgrade policy, so that also takes into account some growth opportunities.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, that's a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First, just a follow-up on what you just said, John. So that is a -- flat from the fourth quarter smartphone run rate, right?

JOHN STEPHENS: I'm sorry, we're going to -- the annual run rate for the smartphones in 2011 was 25 million and we have plans that assume we're going to stay at that level for the year. In 2012, it just may be mixed differently by quarter. That in my opinion is a significant number particularly since we will have the new upgrade policy fully implemented this year.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it. You would expect upgrades to moderate somewhat in '12?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. So a bigger question, can you talk about the wireline business a little bit? It sounds like -- you said it will turn positive in 2012. Does that mean sort of positive for the year or at some point maybe during the back half it switches to positive?

Then talk about margins there. So flat year-over-year. Is there any potential for additional cost cuts or is it really sort of mix shift still and there's not much to be done with that level?

JOHN STEPHENS: I directly expect revenue to grow for the entire year for the overall. Whether it occurs fully in the first quarter or it occurs later, it will occur for the full year we expect revenues to grow.

Secondly, there are additional cost opportunities and savings opportunities. We have gone a tremendous distance in getting our One AT&T initiatives and our other cost efficiencies in place. But there's always as one of my peers would say, there's always more. And we are going to continue to work for that more.

We do have a headwind of continued legacy product challenges and so those cost savings may go and offset that.

Finally, as we've mentioned here previously, we are not assuming a significant lift, a measurable lift at all from the economy and as such, if we had that lift, there would be an opportunity to perform better than what we have expected.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. A couple of quick questions for John. Firstly, on the share repurchases. Are the impact of share repurchases included in your EPS guidance? And if so, how much does that contribute?

And I am wondering if you could just talk a little bit about how you sort of manage between wanting to take as many shares out as quickly as possible early in the year versus maintaining that 1.5 times debt to EBITDA ratio. Could you go significantly above that and maybe implement something like an accelerated share repurchase program earlier in the year and then trend back down to that over the course of the year?

Then, sorry, one final question on the impact of the upgrade policy change, can you just run through when you think that impact will start showing up and how much you think the upgrade rate could come down in 2012 over 2011? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me try to take them in short order. First of all, with regard to the assumptions we made in the plan with regard to share repurchase, I would suggest you my guidance, our guidance for the year wouldn't be any different based on moving that share repurchase assumption around. It would not have changed -- it did not change the guidance we are giving you.

So if we had no share repurchase, we would stay with that mid single digit EPS growth. That's first question. I hope that's responsive.

Second question with regard to our debt ratios, I think you need to understand and I know you do, Jonathan, but I think you need to step back and look at our balance sheet today with over $3 billion in cash on our balance sheet, look at the cash flows that we are expecting to generate over -- close to $6 billion over our dividend requirements. That total of $9 billion gives you good insight into how much shares we can repurchase or can give you one insight into how much shares we can repurchase without affecting debt metrics.

And so we will be prudent. We are sticking to our standards with regard to the 1.5 and the debt to equity kind of guidelines we've given, but we have cash generation -- a Company like ours has significant flexibility in the timing of those kinds of activities.

The upgrade policy I would expect to go into full force at the end of the second quarter. We put it in place in the first quarter a year ago and it takes about a year and a half to be fully implemented. You probably won't see the full effects of it until the second half of this year. That's our expectations.

I will tell you that in this first year, we are expecting to see some improvement but we have not given and I don't believe we are giving guidance on the specific impact on upgrades. Anything else?

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Randall, maybe just a quick follow-up on the regulatory environment. What in your mind is the path to more clarity out of DC? What would you need to see from them or are we just to assume that you effectively need a complete reset at the FCC to contemplate anything else of size that you would take to them?

And then maybe just a quick follow-up on the upgrade percentage, obviously such a big swing factor for wireless margins. The industry seems to go through waves of tightening and loosening upgrade policies. Your latest move obviously very constructive in tightening but maybe you can talk bigger picture and longer-term, can we as an industry get into a sustained period of tightening that would really reflect sort of a greater degree of discipline? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay, in terms of the regulatory environment, Jason, I will tell you that there is one thing that could be done in very, very short order that would kind of lift the veil or cloud of uncertainty surrounding a lot of this and that is Congress passes legislation initiating the auctions and is very prescriptive to the FCC in terms of what the FCC's role is in the auctions.

And the House has a bill that is -- has been drafted and it accomplished exactly that. The FCC is obviously contesting that language. I think the chairman made a speech the week after the holidays, the chairman of the FCC, where he said he needed the rules to be fluid. My interpretation is these rules are so fluid you could drink out of them with a straw right now.

So what we need from Congress is prescriptive legislation on how these auctions should be performed and the language is presently in the current House bill. If that bill were to get passed, I think it starts to lift the veil of uncertainty surrounding the industry.

In terms of upgrade policy, Jason, what you are particulating and discussing is the indication of an incredibly competitive environment in the mobility world. And I think what you are beginning to see is the smartphone market is maturing a bit. As it matures, I think you will begin to see different behavior among all the players. I probably can't go much further than that.

But as I said at the very beginning, I feel like we have about as much visibility into the future as we have had in quite some time, so that intimates a certain degree of predictability that has not been there before. We will see.

We built our plan and our margin expectations around selling a comparable number of smartphones as we did in 2011, so 25 million. Will there be some new iconic device that nobody anticipated come out during the course of the year? Perhaps, but I do think 25 million sales is probably a reasonable expectation for us and if can get -- if we do a 25 million sales level, then a 40% margin is probably an achievable level.

JOHN STEPHENS: One thing, if I could add to that, Jason, one point I would make to you, as we go through this transition in our network and the ability to provide LTE, one aspect of this refresh process, as Randall mentioned, that it doesn't get lost on, is we really don't necessarily have to do much in the way of financial incentives to get our customers -- as was clearly shown in the fourth quarter -- to get them to go to the latest technology. So we have an opportunity to shift dramatic levels of traffic to LTE.

Also as the industry all begins to fall into a similar situation with us with regard to wireline or wireless handset subsidies and costs and structure, we would hopefully expect that everyone would act rationally in the process.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, guys, for taking the questions. I guess just first, John, when you mentioned that you thought that wireless margins could be as high as 40% in 2012, were you meaning that you expected to be able to maybe touch 40% at some point in time or was that kind of more of a full-year look?

Then on the consumer revenues for the last couple of quarters, it looks like they have been coming down sequentially. I know you've talked about some of the headwinds that you are facing with the legacy businesses and trying to restructure those. But is there a risk that consumer revenues might dip back down into negative territory and then get offset by some of the advances in business as we look into the 2012 mix? Thanks a lot.

JOHN STEPHENS: First of all on the wireless margins and expectations, I mentioned on 40% were for the full year. We will see how the different quarters go because of volumes and new handset issuances and so forth, but that (inaudible) was intended for the year.

With regard to the consumer revenues, a couple of things I think I would point out to you. We've got the U-verse build complete or essentially complete. We will continue to do a little bit more here and there, but we have passed 30 million homes. So now we have a full 30 million home capability to sell into. So we have opportunities to continue that growth.

I think we mentioned that there was 16% penetration in our eligible living units and in those that are longer than 36 months, we're more like 25%. The other piece of that is we are having tremendous results with our high-speed U-verse type broadband not only in consumer but in small business.

And so those opportunities to sell into more numerous markets and that continued push on high-speed Internet and the (inaudible) give me optimism over continuing to have good performance in consumer.

With that being said, we are expecting even better performance in business and they have proven it. They've shown that the strategic services give us factual support for that thought process.

DAVID BARDEN: If I could just follow up real quick, Randall, just one quick for you. If we could get your kind of take on the Verizon agreement with the cable companies, their cross marketing agreement now kind of anticipating potential Verizon selling of cable products in your territory, how do you look at that transaction? Would you support it at the FCC? How do you think about it competitively? What does it make you want to do to respond? That would be very helpful, thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, as relates to them selling cable products, it's interesting. It was obviously their footprints don't overlap so much and so I don't know. I think it will be interesting to see how the FCC deals with it. It appears to me to be a logical transaction. I obviously will be watching very closely because again, hopefully it's one more data point on what the spectrum screens really are, which if it does nothing, it should give us some clarity on what we're able to do as we move forward.

So we won't be a participant in terms of comments or anything on this, just watching as a very interested bystander hopefully getting some indication what it means for us in terms of what we're able to do.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks, Randall.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, John, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Good morning. I wonder if you could just help me, Randall, with the growth outlook. If I'm doing the math right, it looks like service revenue growth in the wireless business excluding the hardware sales has now actually dropped to about 4%. And as you said, the smartphone penetration is now at about 57%.

How do I think about kind of reaccelerating growth in that business? Where does it come from since the incremental data penetration rates and the growth rates are starting to subside a bit?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Craig, good morning. So 57% smartphone penetration. As we said sales, smartphones represented 80% of our sales. So every time we peg what the penetration rate will get to, it seems like the percentage of sales moves up another notch. And so we think we still have quite a ways to run in terms of smartphone penetration. And you continue -- we will continue to see ARPU lift as we penetrate smartphones more and more into the base.

Also I believe that what you are seeing right now, 1.4% postpaid ARPU growth, I believe you will see that accelerate next year as we work through some of our unlimited mobile to mobile calling price changes. So we think we'll see some ARPU lift in terms of the growth rate going into next year, so that'll be very important.

Then again as I mentioned, I am absolutely convinced the smartphone is a platform and the customer that you hold with a smartphone is the customer that you will sell the tablet, is the customer that you will sell connected devices, is the customer you will sell home monitoring capabilities. I just really believe that it is becoming more and more a factor in terms of -- or a platform in terms of further penetration of mobile data and it's why we are going so aggressively on LTE.

And then we haven't really begun to broach business mobility and business mobility in terms of applications. I think we are very early in the cycle in terms of businesses mobilizing all aspects of what they do, whether it be salesforce automation, or imaging. There's just so many applications that businesses are just starting to get their hands around that will become a significant driver of growth.

So feeling pretty good that we have a long way to run in terms of growth in the mobile broadband infrastructure. You are seeing us invest heavily. We will continue to invest, again getting to LTE 80% coverage by 2013. And we just think it's going to be a terrific opportunity.

So with that, we're going to close and I want to think everybody for taking part. As I said, 2012, we've probably got the best visibility we've had in quite some time. Our growth engines are on track. It is being led as you heard by our comments and your questions on this call by mobile broadband.

The key for us is spectrum. We need the FCC and Congress to get us to open up, get us to a point of open auctions, and that needs to be done as soon as possible. We're committed to making sure that AT&T is structured for growth. We're going to look at low growth and nonstrategic assets and make some decisions over the next few months. And given this environment, we will begin significant share repurchases and we will do that immediately.

So we are looking forward to a good 2012. Thank you again for joining us and we'll talk to you later. Thank you.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thanks, everybody. Have a great day. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120209e81q002xl
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,349 words
   PD
20 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter 2011 earnings release. For the conference all the participants are in a listen only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. With that being said, I will turn the conference over to Brooks McCorcle, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Finance. Please go ahead.

   TD
BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John. Good morning everyone, and welcome to our third-quarter conference call. It is really great to have you with us this morning. As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T, and joining me on the call today are John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility and Consumer Markets. John will cover our consolidated and wireline results and Ralph will give us an update on our wireless business, then we will follow with Q&A.

Let me remind you that our release, Investor briefing, supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. And as a reminder that is www.att.com/investor.relations.

I also need to reference our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3. That says that this presentation and the comments that we will make this morning may contain forward-looking statements. And as you know, they are subject to risks, and details can be found in our SEC filings and on AT&T's website.

Before I turn the call over to John, let me quickly call your attention to slide 4, which provides a financial summary. Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.61, a 13% increase over last year's earnings per share excluding one-time gains and up 3.5% year to date.

This includes pressure from storm and T-Mobile transaction-related expenses in the third quarter. Our consolidated revenue was stable and consolidated operating margin was up 260 basis points year-over-year and stable sequentially thanks to our best wireless service margins in six quarters and continued strength in wireline business.

Cash flow was superb. Cash from operating activities for the quarter totaled $10.4 billion and free cash flow was $5.1 billion, which brings us to $12.4 billion for the year. That is even with the increased investment in capital expenditures that we told you about last quarter.

With that quick overview I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer John Stephens. John.

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks, and good morning to everyone on the call. Before I cover results let me provide a quick comment on our planned T-Mobile merger. The FCC review is continuing, and on the DOJ front we are hopeful that we can reach a solution. We have a trial date in less than four months. The benefits of the combination are both significant and unchanged and our expectation continues to be that we will reach a successful conclusion.

Now let me turn to results and comment on the quarter overall. The highlights are on slide 5. We are very pleased with what we have accomplished in the third quarter and year to date, and we continue to see impressive strength in all our growth engines.

Mobile broadband leads the way. Ralph will give you more details in a moment, but we had a great quarter. Sales were strong across the board with gains in every subscriber category. Smartphone sales were robust, even in a quarter where you might expect sales to slow. Branded computing devices were also strong.

We turned in impressive service margin results with our best performance in six quarters.

There also was good news from our wireline business where for the first time in three years we posted sequential growth in total and business revenues. IP data continues to be the driver for business and in wireline consumer where we continue to see positive results.

The thing I am most encouraged by is that in addition to solid earnings we delivered excellent free cash flow. In fact, we had our strongest free cash flow in two years. That comes even with making significant CapEx investments. So you are saying solid execution in every area of the business, which puts us in a great position heading into the fourth quarter.

With that as background, let's take a look at detailed results starting with consolidated revenues on slide 6. Third-quarter consolidated revenues were stable sequentially and year-over-year. But when you look at our results year-to-date we have seen revenues increase. Our growth drivers continued to be strong -- excellent mobile broadband growth, solid U-verse gains and improved business trends. This was partially offset in the third quarter by declines in voice and directory.

We also had an iPhone launch last year which provided a lift to 2010 third-quarter equipment revenues. Of course, we didn't see this in third-quarter revenues this year. So when you factor out equipment revenue, consolidated service revenues actually grew 0.4% versus a year ago.

Our overall revenue mix has continued its transformation. Year-to-date 75% of our revenues come from wireless and wireline data and managed services. That is up from 72% a year ago and 66% just two years ago. Revenues from these areas were up 7% year-to-date, so they are growing at a very good clip. We expect this mix shift to continue and it is one of the reasons we have such a positive view of our business.

With that let me turn it over to Ralph de la Vega, who will provide an update on wireless results. Ralph.

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT, CEO OF AT&T MOBILITY AND CONSUMER MARKETS, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John, and good morning everyone. It is great to be with you again. As John mentioned, we are excited about the incredible growth that we are seeing in our mobile broadband business. As you can see on slide 7, the third quarter continued the strong sales momentum that we have seen throughout the year. Smartphone sales have been strong, 4.8 million this quarter and 16 million sold so far this year exceeding even the most optimistic forecasts coming into the year.

We're also seeing strong sales of data-only branded computing devices coming close to our best quarter ever. But you know what, we believe the best is yet to come. In the third quarter we took steps to make the AT&T network experience even better.

First, we surpassed our end-of-year enhanced backhaul target and we see this as a major tipping point for speeds on our network. Our enhanced backhaul now carries more than two-thirds of our data traffic. When you combine this with the advanced technology of HSPA+ devices such as the iPhone 4S, we're seeing some incredible speeds across our 4G network.

We also launched our first LTE cities in the third quarter. By the end of the year we expect to have LTE service in at least 15 cities covering 70 million POPs, and we will be turning up Boston and Washington DC next.

On the smartphone front we have several new ones this quarter. We're off to a very fast start with the iPhone 4S. In fact, it has been our most successful launch in history, activating more than 1 million iPhone 4S' through Tuesday. Only he AT&T's networks lets the iPhone 4S download twice as fast and surf and talk at the same time, and customers just love those features.

We also have some really great Android devices that we announced last week, including the Motorola Atrix 2. And in the fourth quarter we plan to launch our first LTE handsets. Customers [will] love the state-of-the-art LTE smartphones we plan to introduce. They will be fast, they will have super bright screens and long-lasting batteries.

These new devices, along with an expected seasonal push we get from the holiday, sets us up for a really strong fourth quarter. In fact, we expect the fourth quarter to be one of our strongest smartphone sales quarters ever.

So before we look too far ahead, let me drill down and cover third-quarter wireless results, and there is no better place to start this quarter than in our net adds and churns. The details are on slide 8.

We hit a benchmark this quarter when we passed 100 million subscribers, adding more than 2.1 million this quarter alone. We also continued a trend that we have been seeing so far this year with growth across the board in every customer category. That includes postpaid net adds of 319,000 or about the same number we had in the second quarter.

Excluding the impacts of the Alltel and Centennial integration migrations, postpaid net adds were 384,000. Prepaid net adds were 293,000, more than twice as many as we had in the second quarter, helped by strong GoPhone sales. And we had another solid reseller quarter with 473,000 subscribers added.

We also added 1 million connected devices in the third quarter. This is a terrific business for us with lower ARPUs, with good margins and low churn, plus most of these devices have little or no subsidy. And speaking of churn, total churn improved both year-over-year and sequentially. Post-paid churn was stable and we saw iPhone churn decrease, a tremendous vote of confidence in a very competitive environment.

It seems like a long time ago when the issue how we would perform with iPhone competition was top of mind. Well, I think and believe that our results speak for themselves. These results speak volumes about our wireless business. New customers are choosing AT&T and existing ones continue to stay with us.

Now let's look at revenue and postpaid ARPU on slide nine. Our track record of postpaid ARPU growth is unmatched in the industry. This is our 11th consecutive quarter of growing postpaid ARPU, and we grow it from a much larger ARPU base than anyone else.

Last quarter our postpaid ARPU was more than $7 higher than our closest competitor. In the third quarter our postpaid ARPU was almost $64 per subscriber. Postpaid ARPU for the third quarter grew 1.4% year-over-year. Looking ahead, we expect ARPU to increase to the 2% range in the fourth quarter thanks to expected positive impacts from higher smartphone activations in the quarter and from the pressure of the Alltel integration being fully behind us.

Total service wireless revenues were $14.3 billion, up $600 million or 4.3% from the year-earlier. This is driven by subscriber gains and strong adoption of data plans, which was offset somewhat by the lack of an iPhone refresh in the quarter.

And we continue to bring in more subscribers on to our network with tiered-data plans. 18 million, or nearly half of our smartphone subscribers, are on tiered plans with most choosing the higher priced data plan. Our lower-priced plan continues to be a good entry point for many subscribers. And now that we offer a free iPhone with a two-year contract for the first time ever, the iPhone 3GS, we expect to broaden the smartphone base even more.

You can also see the benefits of mobile broadband sales in our wireless data results which are on slide 10. Data revenues were $5.6 billion, up more than $850 million from the third quarter a year ago. Data revenues are now a $22 billion annualized revenue stream for us growing at 18% year-over-year. Compare that to just four years ago when the mobile broadband was just beginning to emerge. Back then it was just a $7 bllion annualized revenue stream, so we have tripled that number in just four years. We have come a long way, yet we're still just getting started.

We also hit a significant smartphone milestone this quarter. Smartphone subscribers now make up more than half of our postpaid subscriber base, 52.6%, up from 39.1% a year ago. At the same time smartphones continue to be nearly two-thirds of our postpaid sales during the quarter showing more opportunity for growth.

ARPU for smartphones continue to be strong, 1.9 times that of other devices, and customers tend to be sticky with churn below our average.

We also delivered another strong quarter for branded computer subscriber growth. This is a new growth area for us that includes data-only connections such as tablets, tethering and air cards. And as you can see, the results continue to impress. We increased sales by 505,000 to reach 4.5 million.

We are really excited about the opportunities here. There are a lot of exciting new tablets and new data-driven products on the horizon, and we have the right business model, the right products and the right network to really grow this business.

Now let's take a look at wireless margins, the details are on slide 11. In addition to subscriber and topline growth, wireless margins expanded this quarter. In fact, we had our best wireless service margin performance in six quarters. This comes even with another strong smartphone sales quarter.

Our third-quarter wireless service EBITDA margin was 43.7%, and when you factor in Alltel and storm pressures, margins would have been more than 44%. I think it is worthwhile to take a moment and compare this quarter's results to the second quarter a year ago. That is the last time we had a quarter before an iPhone refresh.

What you see is interesting and promising. Our service margins this quarter were actually better, and we sold almost 1 million more smartphones than we did the second quarter a year ago. And I think this really speaks to our long-term goal of building a strong smartphone base, while working to improve margins. It is important for us to keep our long-term strategy in mind as we plan for the fourth quarter.

As I mentioned earlier, we expect blockbuster smartphone sales in the fourth quarter. You have seen the early response to the iPhone 4S and it has been tremendous. Plus when you factor in a great lineup of other smartphones, new devices from our LTE launch and traditionally strong holiday sales, you start to get an idea of the kind of quarter this is shaping up to be.

Obviously, this will impact margins in the fourth quarter, but the benefits are clear, including lower churn, higher ARPUs and strong data growth. And the opportunity to create long-term value is substantial.

That covers a wireless. Now I would like to turn it back to John Stephens to discuss wireline and consolidated results. John.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Ralph. We always appreciate you being on the call, especially when you bring such great results.

Now let's take a look at our wireline business, where we had our first sequential revenue growth in four years. Let's begin with wireline consumer and U-verse. Slide 12 has that information.

We believe we have the best video experience in the business. But you don't have to take our word for it, J.D. Power has once again named U-verse highest in overall customer satisfaction, and that is in every market that we serve where J.D. Power measures us. But I strongly believe the best is yet to come. Our goal is to take the best in video experience and make it even better.

Earlier this week we announced several connected TV apps that will further integrate our TV and wireless platforms. And there are several other really great new features that are coming soon.

As U-verse has transformed the viewer experience, it has also transformed our consumer results. IP data, that is U-verse plus other consumer broadband, now represents an annualized revenue stream of almost $11 billion, growing over 19% year-over-year, and making up more than half of our consumer revenues.

During the quarter we added 176,000 U-verse subscribers to reach 3.6 million in service. Our subscriber numbers were impacted somewhat this quarter by a technology upgrade and storms in some of our U-verse service areas. This caused us to pull back on some installations to handle those situations. But sales remain strong and we feel confident that our subscriber net add levels will improve in the fourth quarter.

We are also seeing broadband and U-verse voice over IP attach rates remaining solid. More than three-quarters of U-verse subscribers have a triple or quad-play bundle with us. ARPU for these customers is about $170, up 6% year-over-year. And penetration continues to grow. We now have 25% penetration in areas marketed to for 36 months or more, and we believe there is a lot of room for growth.

U-verse high-speed data also had another great quarter, adding more than 500,000 subscribers. Our U-verse broadband net adds were more than twice our TV additions, with many of these subscribers buying our newer and faster IP DSL broadband service.

Now let me provide a quick update on improving trends we're seeing with our wireline business customers, which you can see on slide 13. Thanks to robust growth in our strategic business services, we had the first sequential growth in our wireline business revenue in three years. That is sequential growth for the first time in our wireline business revenue in three years.

What makes this even more impressive is that this growth is occurring while we're still seeing pressure from the weak economy, slow employment, and the transformation of our business to next-generation IP products. So while business continues to work their way through the economic downturn they are still investing in services to help drive productivity and efficiency.

Business service revenues were down 2.2% year-over-year on a reported basis and 1.7% when you adjust for last year's sale of assets in Japan. But when you look at sequential results revenues were actually increasing.

Much of this success is attributable to continued strong growth of our strategic business services, revenues from products such as Ethernet, VPNs and application services, which is an almost $5.8 billion annualized revenue stream and growing at 19.3% in the third quarter and 19.1% year-to-date. So we are not only growing the revenue, but continuing to grow it at a slightly larger rate.

We are seeing data growth across a variety of industries and customers, both large and small. Global IP data and integration services are growing at more than 10%. Wholesale had its second sequential quarter of revenue growth. And we had our first quarter of broadband growth in two years in small business. Our wireless bundles are also increasing. These are very encouraging signs, and we plan to build on this success as we go forward.

Now let's look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 14. We said in January that we expected to deliver stable to improved consolidated margins this year with wireless margin expansion and a disciplined focus on cost additions. Through the third quarter I think it is fair to say we are delivering.

Our consolidated operating margin was 19.8%. That is up 260 basis points versus the third quarter a year ago and up sequentially. And when you adjust for the storms, the technology upgrades and the Alltel costs we would have had margins of over 20%.

Our reported wireline operating margin was 12.1% in the third quarter, down both sequentially and year-over-year. While we remain focused on cost initiatives, our results were pressured from declines in voice revenues, storm expenses, technology upgrades, as we mentioned earlier. If you take those costs into account, our margins were in the mid-12% range.

Our One AT&T initiatives are continuing to make progress. We continue to target cost efficiencies and simplify product offerings to deliver best-in-class services while also achieving cost savings. These initiatives are going well and help us sustain solid margins while serving customers with a best-in-class operation.

Along with solid margins we continue to have strong cash flows. Our cash summary is on slide 15. Through the first nine months of the year cash from operations totaled $27.2 billion, up 7% from a year ago. Capital expenditures were $14.7 billion. Free cash flow before dividends was $12.4 billion, with our third-quarter free cash flow at its highest level in two years and up 7% for the year. And dividend payments totaled $7.6 billion.

In terms of uses of cash net debt is down more than $8 billion over the past five quarters, and our net debt to EBITDA ratio is 1.41. Our balance sheet is solid, our debt metrics sound, and we have more than $10 billion of cash on hand. Our strong cash flow gives us the flexibility to invest in our business to retire debt and to continue to return substantial value to shareholders.

Let me close with a quick recap on slide 16. First, we are seeing great execution across the business, strong gains in all our major growth drivers -- mobile broadband, U-verse, strategic business services.

Second, as Ralph said, mobile broadband growth has been terrific. And the fourth quarter is shaping up to be one of our best yet. Data revenue growth is strong, churn is down, smartphone sales continue to grow. And maybe the biggest news this quarter is the first sequential revenue growth from business wireline customers in three years.

Overall these results produced another solid quarter for us with double-digit adjusted earnings growth and strong free cash flow, allowing us to have one of the strongest balance sheet in the industry. And as I mentioned earlier, we continue to move ahead with our efforts on the T-Mobile transaction.

Brooks, that concludes our prepared remarks. I think we are ready for Q&A.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Great. John, I think we are ready to take our first question.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Ralph, good wireless results given all the headwinds out there. Can you talk about [the] LTE rollout? You have had it for a few weeks now, what are you seeing from that?

And how should we think about LTE over the next few quarters? To what extent are you going to be able to drive incremental revenues, incremental ARPU from this, as well as driving better efficiency gains from your experience so far?

I know you have made some comments about your upcoming smartphones and how they would have been improved battery performance and so forth. So some color around those issues would be great. Thank you.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: I am thrilled about what we are seeing with the LTE launch. I have been a part of many network and device transformations, and this technology, quite frankly, is the best I have ever seen in my career. The network technology is fantastic. The devices are fast, they are thin, they have great battery life. It is the first time that I think a network transition is going to be a homerun right off the bat.

As we launched 3G it took us about six months to a year to really get some really, really cool handsets. This is happening right now with our launch, so I think we have timed it perfectly. And when you complement what we are doing with HSPA+ I couldn't be more happy.

What I see happening with LTE and data is just a huge growth opportunity. We mentioned today that our smartphones now make up 52% of our postpaid base. But I think the way we need to think about smartphones in the future is the smartphone is going to equal the phone in the future. It will be 100% in the next two or three years.

These devices are so good and the costs are coming down so much that I think in the future you could look at close to 100% penetration, not two-thirds like we're selling today -- a huge opportunity in smartphones.

And then you add on top of that these new devices like tablets and MiFis and e-readers and Telematics and the growth opportunity is off the charts on this. And then you add to that the cloud, the fact that all these devices in the future are going to want connectivity to the cloud, which means they need to have great bandwidth, great data capability.

And this is not just the demand that we are seeing in this country, but all around the world. And so our business enterprise can go and pitch products to them that are based on the worldwide standard today of HSPA and LTE in the future.

So I see huge growth opportunities as more smartphones penetrate our base. A huge opportunity with tablets and a huge opportunity to provide a worldwide capability on a standard technology platform that is probably the best the world has.

And the great thing about doing all of that is that we are doing it with a technology, LTE, that provides a reduced cost per megabyte. That is, we can produce a megabyte a lot cheaper on LTE, and it is also more spectrally efficient. So lower cost, lower spectrum requirements and great revenue potential.

I am very bullish on what we are seeing in data. And I think we have only seen the tip of the iceberg, because customers love the devices that are coming out and they love using high-speed data.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: The -- you know, [I thought] the wireless quarter was strong. I think the one surprise would be a deceleration you saw in the postpaid ARPU. Maybe either for John or for Ralph, are there any sort of incremental things you could call out with that, with that 1.4% number that maybe fall out, or is it just a function of people waiting for the new iPhone and that reversing in the fourth quarter that drives the reacceleration?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, this is Ralph. While there are several puts and takes, I think the primary driver of ARPU in the third quarter was slower smartphone growth. And they are very closely correlated, and so we expect that as smartphone growth continues in the fourth quarter -- you know, the third quarter was slower than normal because we didn't have an iPhone refresh in the third quarter, but the fourth quarter is going to be unbelievable. And so we expect to probably have the best fourth-quarter smartphone sales we have ever had.

And so we expect that growth to pick up and we expect ARPU to pick up just as well. We are very confident of that. That is why we commented that we think hitting 2% is what we expect to see in the fourth quarter, which is right in line with what we have been seeing.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Given the decline in interest rates and sort of tepid returns in the market, John, can you just comment on what you expect in terms of cash contributions to the pension at the end of this year? And then a related issue on the reversal of stimulus for cash taxes.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me tell you, first of all with regard to the pension funding issue, there is some processes that we have to go -- that every company has to go through between now and the end of the year, not only seeing how our investment results and discount rates and so forth change and results come out at the end of the year, but also to make some decisions on funding elections that are available to companies today.

We will make those decisions at the end of the year and make our determinations on funding at that time. I will tell you with that being said, we commonly follow and review this process, and in all our business plans and processes going forward we have assumptions for pension funding and believe that we can handle those in normal course of our business within the normal course of cash flows that we are now generating.

And quite frankly they are also tax-deductible, so while the funding dollars are going in at 100%, we get the tax benefits that come back at about $0.40 on the dollar. So that is the issue with the money. We will have more knowledge about that as the results come in from the plans, and as we make our elections on funding.

A second piece on cash taxes. Certainly the bonus depreciation rules have provided us a benefit this year and tax planning has provided our Company benefits for a number of years. This quarter is a great example, because in comparing year-over-year results when we show a 13% growth in earnings per share that is after taking out a significant tax gain out of last year's results.

So my point being though as with the bonus depreciation rules that [provide us bonus] we continue to plan for that. That payback period is a couple of years out for us, and we expect to have other opportunities to offset some, if not all, of that cash pressure.

CRAIG MOFFETT: All right, thank you, John.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Let's switch over to wireline a little bit. Can you talk about how we should think about margins going forward, and what you expect for the Consumer business in terms of promotions around broadband and DSL? I assume that we had some tax that was allocated to different areas in the third quarter. How should we look at that going forward? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: First of all on the margins on a -- I like to look at the wireline margins from an operating income perspective and from -- and an EBITDA perspective. But if you look at this quarter, we came in around 32% for our EBITDA margins, if you adjust for the storms and the technology upgrade costs. And we came in around 12.5%, if you do the same adjustments on an operating income basis.

I think on a full-year basis, we're probably in the 10 to 20 basis points lagging on an operating income basis last year's operating income margins for wireline. So we're hopeful that we can make that up in the fourth quarter. We see will see if we can or not, but we are hopeful about that. So we continue to believe that we have an opportunity to sustain margins at this level or even slightly better than we have done in this quarter.

And we're working hard to do that. It is a challenging endeavor. Specifically when we are, as you well know, transforming the business from high-margin legacy products to these next-generation U-verse IP and other services.

With regard to our DSL, the most encouraging piece of the DSL story, and while our net adds for the quarter were about in the 5,000 range, the most encouraging piece of it was the fact that we had 500,000 high-speed U-verse/IP-DSLAM net adds. So we were able to convert a huge piece of our legacy DSL base into U-verse/IP-DSLAM, and we saw gains in small business with that IP-DSLAM product for the first time. We will continue to focus on transforming those DSL lines into high-speed. We give great speeds, great service to our customers, good ARPUs.

On those areas where we don't have U-verse, I think our plans have been fairly clear. We expect to have an LTE rollout to 97% of the country. And as Ralph talked about, we're getting great results where we have it. So we believe that is going to be able to provide a wireless solution at a high speed, good quality, good cost on a profitable basis for us. That is the long-term solution to the non-U-verse areas.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: And in terms of your question about promotions, in the third quarter we based our promotions on a market-by-market basis, only where we had installation capacity. And so we expect that some of those markets will be opened up in the fourth quarter. Now that we have got the technology transition behind us you will see a broader number of promotions in the fourth quarter back to the way we were kind of second quarter and prior to that.

PHIL CUSICK: So we should look for video to rebound in 4Q back to the 2Q and prior level?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: We expect a rebound in the fourth quarter.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay, thanks Ralph; thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks for taking my questions. Just two, one to follow up on the margin side. It looks like as we look at the third-quarter outperformance in the margins, a significant portion of that came from slower device sales, partly related to the iPhone. Can you talk about your expectations for getting to a mid-40s margin while having a more normalized rate of device refresh, given that as time goes on and more people have smartphones they will replace those devices with smartphones?

A second quick question was just to get your initial expectations as of the pending FCC proceeding to reform intercarrier comp and USF where the vote is scheduled to come up in, I guess, a little over a week. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me take a shot at the margins. I understand your comment about handset sales impacting margins, and they clearly do and they clearly will in the fourth quarter.

But with that being said, I think Ralph covered it -- where our margins for the quarter on a reported basis of 43.7%, when you adjust for the merger costs close to 44%, they included almost 5 million smartphone sales. And when you compare it to the prior quarter before an iPhone launch, our margins are not only 60 basis points higher, but we have almost 1 million more smartphone sales.

So our point is that while someone may jump to the conclusion that it is handset-driven, and certainly the handsets have an impact, the reality of it is there was a lot of good, hard work by the entire management team on all fronts to generate these great margins. It wasn't just a differential on handsets, because I sold 900,000 more handsets this quarter than I did in the last pre-iPhone launch. That is the first point. And, Ralph, did I miss anything with that?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: I think you did a good job.

JOHN STEPHENS: The last thing with regard to the FCC. The intercarrier comp process is important. The issue is important to us. We have continued to participate and provide our input to it. If you -- I think you are aware we are a net payer in that environment. So some movement of those costs to more of an economic base could have a positive impact on us.

So we're supportive of the efforts, trying to participate in a constructive way for the entire industry. And we look forward to seeing what the commission comes out with. As you know, the devil is always in the details, so we're going to really be careful to make sure we do a good analysis of it. But, generally speaking, we're very positive towards the idea of getting a refresh of those rules based on current economic conditions.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Michael McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Ralph, can you just give us maybe a little more detail on expectations for this 2% type level and ARPU growth in 4Q? Just thinking about maybe more non-smartphone to smartphone or iPhone upgrades, a change in the upgrade versus new customer ratio. Maybe some color around the Alltel impact that is going away in 4Q. And then on the iPhone 4S whether or not we should be thinking about that more as a front-end loading versus more of a holiday, which has been the case, I think, historically.

And then, lastly, just more detail around the U-verse technology upgrade, was that also including IP-DSLAM or was there something else involved there? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Concerning the 2% in the fourth quarter, what we typically see when we have a strong smartphone growth quarter is a lot of customers who are on feature phones and what we call quick messaging devices step up to the smartphone category. And that is what we expect is going to happen in greater numbers in the fourth quarter.

Third quarter was simply slowed because we didn't have an iPhone launch in the third quarter like we did a year ago, but we think that is going to dramatically change and get us back in the 2% range.

I also mentioned in my notes that we have another device that I think is going to dramatically change those people that are on smartphones and quick messaging devices, the 3GS, which is free with a two-year contract. We have seen a tremendous, tremendous demand for that device even though it is a generation old. And, actually, we're getting more new subscribers coming on the 3GS on the average than other devices.

So we are also out of inventory, sold out on that device. And so I am very, very optimistic on what the fourth quarter is going to look like in terms of smartphone growth. And that is what typically drives ARPU growth, so we feel very, very confident.

The Alltel impact was in the range of about 23 basis points. But the majority of it was driven through smartphone growth and we're very confident that is going to pick up in the fourth quarter.

The other question on the technology upgrade. Typically when we provide new upgrades to U-verse we required a few more dispatches, so we planned for that this time. We reduced promotions so that we could provide good service intervals to customers when they reported any issues with the transition. It worked extremely well. That work is behind us, and now we will go back to the regular mode of business in the fourth quarter.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK: Ralph, the technology upgrade though, is that just getting higher speeds as a competitive response to DOCSIS 3.0 launches or something else?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: No, it is more feature-related. A whole slew of new features, and you're going to see that was the basic (inaudible) platform. You're going to see us now rollout new features in the next two or three months of how to connect your smartphone to your U-verse TV, connect your iPad, watch complementary content, all kinds of new connectivity options that are going to become available now that the platform has been upgraded.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK: Great, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: Thanks for taking the question. John, just to start, could you just revisit that CapEx outlook that you see for 4Q? Obviously, we have had a number of companies that are suggesting that things are slowing down quickly at AT&T. If you could kind of just -- but yet year-to-date spend seems to be pretty healthy. So I just wanted to see if you could give us a peek into the rest of the year for the CapEx plans?

And then, second, if I could, Ralph, just take another crack at this topic. You guys are talking about half the smartphone base on tiered plans, which means that half the smartphones are still paying you $30 a month. And as those guys upgrade their phones and as their lifecycle evolves they will probably move down the curve.

You have already gotten more than half year based on a smartphone, so the next 47% of your base is going to be taking cheaper smartphones and maybe cheaper plans and maybe not taking a smartphone at all if they can afford it.

So as you look down the track with this pressure on the existing smartphone base to lower ARPUs to the existing tiers, and the next half of the smartphone base being the lower tiered customers, are you still optimistic that the ARPU can grow in the face of those forces? Thanks a lot.

JOHN STEPHENS: Let me break the comments -- the questions between Ralph and I, and I will take the CapEx question first. I think our guidance remains unchanged. We're in that mid-$20 billion range. I think we are just under $15 billion a year-to-date at $14.8 billion or so. So we are on our run rate that is consistent with what our guidance is. That is the first thing.

The second thing is our free cash flows allow us to make this investment. I mean, our operating cash flows are great and they are what is funding this. Third, we are going to continue to invest and, quite frankly, push for investment in our LTE, in all of our successful growing products. So we will continue to make that.

I expect our CapEx will run in that $20 billion range. I don't expect there to be certainly any expectations of anything other than continuing and, quite frankly, we will ramp it up a little bit just to get to that mid-$20 billion range.

DAVID BARDEN: All right, thanks, John.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: In terms of the capability to grow ARPU, I think that, as I mentioned before, we are going to see customers use more data, not less. I don't see an environment going into the future where customers are going to use less data. These products are too good. There is an incredible amount of streaming content that is available, so we're going to continue to see customer data usage increase. We have not seen it decline, and I don't see it anyway to decline.

That is why I feel so bullish about our position of having 50% of our base already on tiered plans. And we plan to make available more tiered options for customers in the future so they can enjoy the data services that they want.

So I -- what I see is exactly the opposite of the scenario you suggested is where everybody is actually using more data. I see it across every product category we sell. And the more handsets that we get into a customer's hands that are smartphones, the more data that they use, not the less.

JOHN STEPHENS: And to add to that, we continue to add to that tiered data plan group of customers. It is over 18 million now, and if you think about it, we built that 18 million base in not much more than a year. And so we've got a lot of levers with that, and it is working well. You have seen what our churn has been like in the last year after implementing that. And quite frankly, I don't think you've noticed any harm, certainly, if not a benefit to our churn level.

So we feel like we're really positioned for that growth, and not only from a network capability and quality of service, but also from an ability to capture the revenue.

DAVID BARDEN: Okay, that's helpful. If I could just ask one quick follow-up, Ralph, then. From a usage standpoint, what is overage from the tiered plans contributing to ARPU today?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: I can't give you an exact number, but we do have overage from both plans. So they are actually small right now. I think that they are not significant overage. But like I said before we plan to make available more options to customers that may need higher usage categories in the future so they can feel comfortable in stepping up, but not feeling that they're having to pay an exorbitant amount.

We want to encourage customers to use more and incur a little more cost, if that is what they want to do or stay with the plans that they have. But we are going to have lots of data options.

The other thing that I feel so bullish about is what is happening in the tablet arena. It is very obvious to me that this tablet revolution is going to continue. I don't see anything on the horizon that stops it. And I think customers are going to want both, some smartphones and a tablet. And they're going to see their content on the tablet in ways that is going to make them use more and more data. So I think the future of computing -- tablet computing, is going to be very good for industry.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I just wanted to follow up on the wireline margins a little bit. So, John, I am sensing a sort of a shift in the rhetoric, and I just want to make sure that I have got it correctly. I was under the impression that you guys have made tremendous progress on costs in the wireline business, so that when we saw that ramp in revenue growth in wireline we would start to see meaningful margin expansion. And we've got the revenue growth this quarter, but the margin expansion didn't come through.

And you sort of attributed some of it to storms, some of it to just a negative mix shift. I'm wondering if you can pull those two issues apart a little bit? And just give us an update of whether we should start to see margin expansion as revenues continue to grow in the wireline business or whether this mix shift is just bigger than expected? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: I guess it just real quickly I do believe that the margins for the quarter were impacted by the storms and other things. So I think that 12.5% and more of a 32% range for the EBITDA margin for the wireline is appropriate for this quarter.

With that being said, I still believe that there is an opportunity to grow revenues as we are showing, and then to have that impact on margin. But quite frankly, the distinction for this quarter is while we did grow revenues and I am thrilled about our total wireline and our business wireline revenues growing, the growth was not dramatic. I don't think anybody would have expected it to be dramatic in this economic environment.

So it is going to take time to get more significant growth. And also we're still feeling the pressures of the legacy products, whether it be the legacy access lines or high-margin products transitioning to lower-margin, things like U-verse.

But I still think there's that opportunity. It is going to take some time. Right now we feel like we are doing a good job of managing those expenses, getting focus on them, and holding margins in line with what were our expectations for this year. I hope that is helpful.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Yes.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Maybe just a couple on wireless, just -- sorry, one more on ARPU, but I think a lot of the questions are focused on data. Maybe I will angle it towards voice, and if we can just talk about the opportunities to level out voice ARPU [around] the phone plans.

We are still seeing deterioration. I think that was probably the bigger surprise this quarter, because data ARPU was certainly in line with expectations; voice ARPU was a little bit worse.

What is going on there? Is that people still trading down minute bucket plans, and maybe it has a bit of a macro component? Is it still family-planning penetration that is riding that curve? Maybe just give us a little bit more granularity there and help us think about when that can level out, because that is still 60% of the postpaid ARPU?

And then, second, just on handset upgrade rates. You had 7% this quarter, the lowest rate we have seen in a while -- obviously contributed to very strong margins. Help us think through this. Is this tied more to changes in upgrade policies which you guys made, which you lengthened some of the windows, or more tied to just lack of new handsets and hence we should expect this move back to the 8% to 9% range? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: This is Ralph. Let me address both of those issues. In terms of the voice ARPU, what we saw in the first quarter it wasn't a major impact. We had a smaller impact as a result of us implementing the mobile to any mobile plans in the third quarter. We think that those migrations that happened in the third quarter will not happen in the fourth quarter, because those plans have already been implemented and are reflected in third-quarter results. But the biggest impact to the third-quarter ARPU number was still data, it wasn't voice.

In terms of the upgrade, the changes in upgrade policy do not impact this year, they will impact next year. And what we saw was just simply the fact that the iPhone refresh is taking place in the fourth quarter this year compared to the third-quarter last year.

The big unknown is what happens when you have an iPhone refresh in the fourth quarter, which is the busiest quarter of the year. And this is the first time that happens, so we expect there will be a little higher than average upgrade number in the fourth quarter, but it is hard to estimate, because we have never seen this event before.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thanks, Ralph.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: John, we have time for one more question please.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: You guys had a pretty good prepaid quarter. Even if we adjust for some of the prepaid tablets, it looks like you might have had over 100,000 net adds in your traditional product set. We haven't seen that in a very long time. You have actually been losing customers in that category for a while. So I was hoping you could just give us a little bit of color on why we have seen such a swift turnaround in that segment of your business?.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, of course, that is a very good observation. We launched a new $50 GoPhone plan. We put in that plan also some handsets that are very attractive. They are low cost, but they have been huge hit in the marketplace. So we have seen that business resurge for us.

And I am very pleased with what we have seen in the GoPhone. And we are just getting started. We have a very strong fourth-quarter lineup, so I think we're going to continue to do well with GoPhone sales in the fourth quarter.

BRETT FELDMAN: That was going to be my follow-up. Because seasonally that is one of the best quarters of the year. So should we expect that type of a seasonal improvement, or do you think maybe it will be a little less so, just because you got something really right in the third quarter?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: I think they are going to be cumulative. I think the third quarter is a preview that I think we have a good product that should actually play out stronger in the fourth quarter. It is always very competitive in the fourth quarter in the prepaid market, but we have a great product, we have a great price, and we think we are going to do very well.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thanks for taking the question.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you. Ralph, thanks for participating in the call today. It is always great to have you with us. And for all the analysts and owners out there thank you for participating.

Let me close by recapping a few key points. We had another solid quarter. We delivered adjusted double-digit earnings growth, strong consolidated and wireless margins, and our best free cash flow in two years.

In wireless mobile broadband sales in both smartphones and data-only devices continue to be strong. And we had really encouraging wireline results, including our first sequential revenue growth in wireless business -- in wireline business services in three years.

Our job now is to execute and finish the year strong. We have good momentum heading into the fourth quarter, which makes us optimistic as we look ahead.

Thanks again for being on the call today. And as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thanks, everybody. Have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111103e7ak00461
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,657 words
   PD
21 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the AT&T second quarterly earnings release 2011. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode and later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Brooks McCorkle. Please go ahead.

BROOKS MCCORKLE, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Keely. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our second-quarter conference call. It's really great to have you with us this morning. As Keely mentioned, this is Brooks McCorkle, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T, and joining me on the call today are John Stephens, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Wayne Watts, AT&T's General Counsel.

John will cover our results and Wayne will give us an update on the AT&T T-Mobile merger process. Then we will follow with Qs and As.

Let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information, and the presentation slides that accompany this call are available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website, that's www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement which is on slide 3, and that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of the factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website, and again that is at www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before I turn the call over to John, let me quickly cover our consolidated financial summary, which is on slide 4. Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.60, consistent with last year's EPS before one-time gains and up more than 5% sequentially. Our reported EPS this quarter includes $0.02 of pressure from Alltel integration costs and storm costs in the Southeast and Missouri. As we mentioned earlier this year, Alltel integration costs impact margins, Wireless churn, and subscriber numbers. After this quarter, these impacts will be largely behind us.

The fundamental trends in our business continue to be quite solid. Consolidated revenue continues to grow for the sixth quarter in a row, up 2.2% year over year thanks to strength in mobile broadband, U-verse, and advanced business offerings.

Even with another quarter of record smartphone sales, our consolidated operating margin remained relatively stable with the prior year and was up sequentially. Cash flow continues to be strong with cash from operating activities for the quarter totaling $9 billion and free cash flow of $3.7 billion.

With that quick overview, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, John Stephens. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, SEVP AND CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks, and good morning, everyone. It is great to have you with us today. Much of the public discussion of late has centered on our planned acquisition of T-Mobile USA and AT&T's General Counsel, Wayne Watts, will be along in just a minute to provide an update on the approval process.

But while that has been going on, we have done an excellent job in executing on our strategies and growing the business.

Let me share a few highlights that are on slide 5. Consolidated revenues were up year-over-year and sequentially, led by strong Wireless growth and increasing stability in our Wireline revenues. Earnings were solid even when including Alltel integration and storm-related costs. Margins expanded sequentially across the board, Wireless, Wireline, and total and were generally stable from a year ago.

Free cash flow was strong and we continue to expect growth for the year. Driving these financial results was another incredible quarter in mobile broadband. Smartphone sales set another quarterly record. Postpaid ARPU grew for the 10th consecutive quarter, a record unmatched in the industry.

Mobile data growth remains strong and is now an annualized $22 billion revenue stream. We also had solid net ads with growth in every subscriber category including having our best quarter yet in branded computing devices. And our Wireline business is showing signs that it soon will be growing again.

U-verse continues to be strong, adding subscribers, increasing triple play ARPU, and is now a $6.5 billion annualized revenue stream. In fact, fast-growing consumer IP data now represents about half of our total consumer revenues. That's right; our consumer Wireline business now has over half of its revenues from IP data.

And strategic business services had almost 20% revenue growth, its best performance in six quarters, driving sequentially stable business Wireline revenues even without significant economic recovery.

With that quick overview, let's take a look at detailed results starting on slide 6. Consolidated revenues totaled $31.5 billion, up $687 million versus the second quarter a year ago due to continued strong mobile broadband growth, U-verse revenue growth of more than 50%, and increasing stability in Wireline business revenues with strategic business service revenues growing almost 20%. As you know, these growth areas are driving our revenue mix to Wireless and Wireline data and managed services.

In the second quarter, 76% of our revenues came from these next-generation services. That's up from 71% a year ago and 66% just two years ago. Revenues from these areas were up more than 8% or $1.8 billion in the second quarter. We expect this mix shift to continue, giving us even stronger confidence in the long-term view of our business.

Now let's look at Wireless, starting on slide 7. Our focus on mobile broadband continues to drive impressive revenue growth. Total Wireless revenues were up $1.4 billion or 9.5% and Wireless service revenues increased 7.4%, up nearly $1 billion versus the second quarter a year ago. This was driven by subscriber gains and strong adoption of data plans.

Data continues to drive our postpaid ARPU gain. We now have an industry-leading 10 straight quarters of growth, up 2%, and we continue to bring more subscribers onto our network with tiered data plans. In just one year, we have added more than 15 million subscribers on tiered plans.

As I mentioned, we had subscriber gains across the board in every customer category with 1.1 million net adds. The stats are on slide 8. We had solid postpaid numbers, adding 331,000 during the quarter. And when you exclude the impact of the Alltel integration, our postpaid net adds were more than 500,000.

In prepaid, we had 137,000 net adds but that number grows to 186,000 when excluding the integration impact from Alltel with continued strength in tablet activations.

We also had another solid reseller and connected device quarter, adding 248,000 and 379,000 subscribers respectively. Helping drive subscriber growth was our ability to keep churn in check. Excluding Alltel migration impacts, postpaid churn was relatively stable with year-ago numbers and improved from the first quarter of the year. Additionally, iPhone churn by itself improved sequentially. And iPhone sales increased year-over-year.

That means high-quality customers, both new and existing ones, continue to choose AT&T. They know our network advantages, the ability to use voice and data simultaneously, the nation's fastest mobile broadband network, and international roaming to 224 countries thanks to our GSM network. All this makes a big difference to our customers and you see that in this quarter's results.

You can see the benefits of smartphone and branded computing device sales in our Wireless data results which are on slide 9. We grew data revenues more than 23%. That is up more than $1 billion year-over-year.

We had another record quarter with smartphone sales, 5.6 million units, both upgrades and new subscribers, our best second-quarter effort. Smartphone subscribers now make up half of our postpaid subscriber base, up from just 36% a year ago. And we expect that percentage to continue to grow as nearly 70% of postpaid sales during this past quarter were smartphone sales.

Breaking that down a little further, we had 3.6 million iPhone activations during the quarter, up about 11% from the second quarter a year ago, when the iPhone 4 was first introduced near the end of June. An impressive performance in this first quarter where exclusivity no longer exists.

But our strongest growth was with other smartphones, BlackBerrys, androids, and other devices, where we sold nearly 2.3 million devices during the second quarter. That's more than twice as many as we added in the second quarter of 2010.

ARPU for smartphones continues to be strong, 1.8 times our other devices with more than 85% on family or business plans, and these customers tend to be sticky with churn below our average.

We also had our best quarter ever with branded computing devices, adding 545,000 this quarter to reach 4 million.

As you might expect, strong smartphone sales are having an impact on margins. While these devices tend to have higher subsidies, the customers they attract have higher ARPUs and lower churn. The details are on slide 10.

So far this year we've exceeded our expectations and already had back to back record quarters in smartphone sales. But even with our strong smartphone sales, we were able to expand Wireless service margins sequentially.

In the second quarter, we had 1.7 million more smartphone sales than we did in the year-ago quarter and up slightly sequentially, yet our Wireless EBITDA service margins expanded from the first quarter and when you exclude Alltel integration costs, service margins were 42%. You see that in our Wireless operating income, which was up more than 6% sequentially to reach $4.2 billion.

Looking ahead, we expect smartphone sales to continue to be strong through the rest of the year especially when you consider the new products and services that will be out, our LTE launch, and holiday sales.

That concludes our Wireless results. Now before we get to Wireline results, I would like to turn the call over to AT&T's General Counsel, Wayne Watts, to give us a brief update on the AT&T T-Mobile merger approval process. Wayne?

WAYNE WATTS, SEVP AND GENERAL COUNSEL, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. I appreciate the opportunity to be with you and I will be brief.

Let's take a look at slide 11. We remain comfortable with the process so far and the pace at which we are moving. The staffs at the Department of Justice and the FCC, the two federal agencies that must approve the transaction, are working extremely hard. They're asking all the right questions. We of course take each issue and question identified very seriously and respond quickly and thoroughly as we see this process through.

In fact, in response to questions, we have developed a very detailed engineering and economic analysis valuing the enormous efficiencies that will result from the combination of the AT&T and T-Mobile networks. We have revealed to the agencies the results of the analysis and the magnitude of the efficiencies. The FCC has now indicated it wants time to fully evaluate and validate these results and has stopped their 180-day clock to allow them to do so.

In light of the significance of these efficiencies, it is important to us that the FCC validates this information as they continue their review and we look forward to working with them to do so.

We said when we announced this transaction that our confidence and our ability to obtain approval is based on the facts and while we still have work to do, we remain very confident that we can satisfy the DOJ and FCC that this transaction should be and ultimately will be approved. Those facts, including the enormous efficiencies we can realize from this merger, demonstrate that this is the surest and fastest way to address the unique network capacity constraints and spectrum shortages faced by AT&T.

The facts also demonstrates that the consumer and public interest benefits are enormous. These include better service in the form of fewer dropped calls, faster speeds, and a better overall customer experience. More mobile broadband access for more Americans by expanding our 4G LTE deployment to more than 97% of the US population, some 55 million more people will receive LTE coverage in America than would have occurred without this merger. And billions of dollars of increased investments in the US economy, which drives more jobs and economic growth.

These benefits are widely recognized and have led to the broad, diverse groups voicing support for the approval of the merger. Those backing this transaction include governors in 26 states representing 150 million Americans; members of Congress on both sides of the aisle; numerous elected officials at the state and local level; labor unions representing more than 20 million workers; groups representing rural and diverse constituents. And perhaps most telling is the support from the high-tech community. They understand the importance of this transaction and what it means for the continued innovation, growth, and prosperity of both of our industries.

Looking ahead, we will continue to be responsive to those reviewing the merger. Based on the facts and the law, we remain confident we will receive regulatory approval in a timely manner.

John, that concludes my update and I will turn it back to you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Wayne. Now let's talk about our Wireline business. As I mentioned a moment ago, we are seeing several positive trends here. Let me start with our Wireline consumer results on slide 12.

On the first positive, thanks to the strength of our U-verse business, IP data now makes up half of our consumer revenue. U-verse has transformed our consumer business. We have done an outstanding job of scaling this business from scratch just a few years ago to an annualized $6.5 billion business today and it's growing at a 57% clip year-over-year. This has helped stabilize Wireline consumer revenues, which grew for the fourth consecutive quarter.

And as we scale U-verse, margins will continue to improve, contributing to profitability. During this quarter, we added 202,000 U-verse subscribers to reach 3.4 million customers in service.

Broadband and U-verse Voice-over-IP attach rates also remain solid. More than three quarters of our U-verse video subscribers have a triple or quad play bundle with us. ARPU for these customers now reaches $170, up more than 8% year-over-year.

Penetration rates continue to grow in areas marketed to for more than 36 months, we have reached 25% penetration and we now pass 29 million living units and are on track to complete our U-verse build by the end of the year.

We are also beginning to see U-verse high-speed data have a positive impact in the small-business space. Our U-verse broadband net adds were more than twice our TV additions, with much of the difference being new U-verse small-business subscribers.

Faster broadband speeds and mobility is a combination small-business customers are looking for and AT&T's strength in both areas is a competitive advantage for us.

We are also seeing improving trends with our Wireline business customers, which you can see on slide 13. Pressures from the lack of business formation and weak economic and employment growth continue. With that said, the revenue trends are showing some positive signs. As you can see in our results, we were essentially flat sequentially and we remain optimistic that we will soon see growth.

Business service revenues were down 3.9% year-over-year on a reported basis but when you adjust for last year's sales of assets in Japan, revenues were down just 3.2%. That's the best performance in over four quarters.

While businesses continue to work their way through the economic downturn, they are still investing in services that help drive productivity and efficiency. We see this in strong IP data growth. We also see it in continued strong growth of our strategic business services which is now a $5 billion annual revenue stream growing at close to 20% year-over-year.

So we are seeing some encouraging signs. In our global enterprise operations, there is strong growth in IP data, outsourcing, and integration services. Ethernet is driving sequential growth in wholesale and Wireless bundles and improving trends in broadband are helping in the small-business segment. These results combined with continued solid execution on the cost side have helped drive improvements in margins.

Now let's look at margins and cash flow on slide 14. For the second quarter, consolidated margins were up sequentially and stable from a year ago at 19.6%. These results were achieved with pressure from a couple of areas -- the completion of the Alltel integration, the storm-related costs, and a record second-quarter smartphone sales.

In Wireline, our operating income margin was 13.1% in the second quarter, essentially flat from the second quarter last year but up 160 basis points sequentially. Improving revenue trends and our focus on cost initiatives throughout the Company helped to offset pressure from declines in voice revenues.

Our One AT&T initiatives continue to do well. We continue to target cost efficiencies and simplify product offerings to deliver best in class services while also achieving cost savings. We still see a lot of opportunity here as we move forward.

Along with solid margins we continue to have strong cash flow. Our cash flow summary is on slide 15. In the first half of the year, cash from operations and working capital initiatives totaled $16.8 billion. Capital expenditure were $9.5 billion with a 29% year-over-year increase in Wireless capital to reach $4.4 billion.

Wireless capital includes work with our LTE build which is on track to be launched later this summer. And as noted in our earnings release, we are slightly increasing our guidance for full-year capital investments. We now anticipate capital expenditures in the $20 billion range as we continue to invest in our Wireless network.

Even with this increase in capital spending, we still expect free cash flow growth year-over-year and we are not changing that guidance. For the first six months of the year, free cash flow before dividends was $7.3 billion and dividend payments totaled $5.1 billion. In terms of uses of cash, debt is down almost $3.4 billion over the past 12 months and our debt to EBITDA ratio is 1.48.

Our strong cash flow and balance sheet give us the flexibility to retire debt as it comes due, to invest in the business, including funding the T-Mobile acquisition, and to continue to return substantial value to shareholders through dividends.

Let me close on slide 16 with a quick recap and a look ahead to the second half of the year. First, revenue trends are moving in the right direction. Continued strong Wireless growth, IP data driving stability in Wireline results, both of these helping expand margins sequentially in both businesses.

Second, Wireless continues to exceed expectations. Record smartphone growth and strong branded computing device sales drove our net adds. Stable churn and increasing postpaid ARPU brightened our outlook for the full year. Our plans to launch 4G LTE service this summer remain on track providing even more opportunity for us. And as Wayne mentioned, the T-Mobile review process continues to move forward.

Third, the transformation of our Wireline business is driving positive revenue trends with year-over-year consumer growth and relatively flat sequential business revenues. These results add to our financial strength and our sound balance sheet.

In summary, we had a solid quarter which adds to our confidence as we head into the second half. We expect continued solid results as we focus on executing on our strategy and growing our business. And we are excited about the industry's potential and about our position for long-term growth.

Brooks, that concludes our prepared remarks. We are ready for the Q&A.

BROOKS MCCORKLE: Okay, great. Keely, I think we are ready to open up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. Good morning. John, I wanted to come back to the point on the Wireline revenue growth. I think you had said Wireline soon will be growing again. I know Randall has commented that enterprise revenues could turn positive exiting 2011. So can you perhaps just give us a little bit more specificity around when you think Wireline may be able to turn positive overall and some of the -- just get into some of the drivers of that? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Simon, and thanks for being on the call. We almost had sequential revenue growth this quarter. So we are on the cusp of that now and whether that happens in the third quarter, the fourth quarter, or soon thereafter, we are really right on the cusp of that now. What's driving it is a number of things.

We are still getting great results out of our wholesale business and Ethernet and other products, doing some good business in network integration and supporting some of our key partners in that. We are starting to see some improvement through the U-verse product and small business and our ability to bundle that with Wireless. We are continuing to see some investment in the global enterprise space by companies.

So we are real optimistic that we're going to see it. We just missed it this quarter.

SIMON FLANNERY: And macro isn't assumed to do anything major for the rest of the year?

JOHN STEPHENS: We are not -- as we said from the start of this year, we have not assumed a significant return or significant growth in the economy either in employment or in GDP growth. We have been fairly conservative on that and consistent with what has been said on these calls in prior quarters.

SIMON FLANNERY: That's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, thanks. A quick question on ARPU. It looked like the postpaid ARPU growth decelerated a little bit quarter to quarter. Is that a function of the higher sales of the computing devices?

And if you could talk a little bit about maybe what the differential is between computing device ARPU and maybe handset ARPU and the trends in between there? And then I guess just going forward, do you expect that deceleration to continue as we move through the year? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, John. I think there's a number of items that are going on. First of all, our smartphone ARPUs continue to be 1.8 times or better our non-smartphone ARPU, so we continue to get some positive results from that as we penetrate that, i.e., get a higher penetration of the smartphone in a postpaid base.

But specifically with our tiered pricing and our $15 and $25 plans that we have out there as well as our new emphasis on postpaid computing devices, we are getting into a segment of the market that has somewhat lower ARPUs than are standard but are still very profitable for us. We are not going to turn away those sales. Those are very good, profitable sales, but they do have some slight impact on the margin -- or excuse me -- on the postpaid ARPU percentages.

I will tell you this, we are still very pleased about the growth we've had and we are pleased that we on a run rate, our smartphone sales are about 70% of our unit sales and we are currently only about 50% of our postpaid customers are smartphones, so we have some room to grow in that area.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Just a couple of questions if I could. First, obviously Alltel, Centennial impacts had a little bit of a depressing effect on margins and churn and subs this quarter. Have we worked all the way through that or is there still going to be a tail heading into the third quarter?

Then I guess second, maybe Wayne, if I could just ask a question on the T-Mobile merger, obviously Plan A is to press ahead and get this deal done by the first quarter of next year. But if it were to emerge that the headwinds were gathering against you, what is the Plan B strategy? Would it be to cut bait and say we just couldn't do it, or would it be to press ahead for as long as is necessary and kind of keep this deal alive into the second quarter of next year, the third quarter of next year, however long it took to get it done? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: David, this is John. Let me take the question on Alltel and Centennial. Effectively the customer migration and virtually all of the integration effort is completed. There are always some trailing expenses. We expect those to be -- not to be material, but there will be some slight amounts. As I said, we don't expect those to be material.

Our experience also is after we've done some of these conversions, churn could be a little bit higher for a few months as customers get used to their new devices and make a decision. As you know, we completed our customer migration near the end of June and so these customers are using these phones, some of them for the first time in June. So as they get through July and August, there may be a little bit of churn impact but we are not expecting any of that to be material and effectively we believe we are completed with the integration process.

Wayne, do you want to take the T-Mobile question?

WAYNE WATTS: Sure. David, it won't surprise you to hear that our focus is entirely on Plan A. We are confident that Plan A is going to be the result. We're going to keep working towards that and we think that's the result we will attain. I would point out the contract does allow extensions of those time for an additional six months, which would take us into the second and third quarter, but we are entirely focused and we will remain entirely focused on finishing in the first quarter.

DAVID BARDEN: All right, guys. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investments.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIBANK: Thanks for taking my question. Going back to the Wireless side, one of the things that you guys have been dealing with as you have been increasing the penetration of smartphones to both new and existing customers is that higher subsidy and replacement costs. Are we getting close to the point where if you look at the totality of the activity, the dollars that you spend on replacement start to peak out, and so that then becomes maybe a source of future margin expansion at some time down the road? Or is this something that just as the activity of your subscribers continues to pick up, that we just have to build into the business case for the Wireless segment?

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Mike. I think the critical piece there is the change we have already made in our upgrade policy, Mike, and when we announced the change we made it prospectively effective, which means that effectively we don't see any of the impacts of that upgrade policy for 12 months or until the first quarter of next year. But we have lengthened that upgrade policy to more of a 24-month standard. That had been more of a 13-month average for us in most of our situations.

So we believe that management of that cost we've addressed it. But I will tell you we continue to focus on it and we continue to be sensitive to it because it is an important piece of the value equation and it's an important piece for us in determining the value of our customers and the profitability of our Wireless business.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormick, Nomura.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hey guys, thanks. Just maybe a quick follow-up on the Wireless margin question. I guess you guys identified the fact that you would be at about 42% if it weren't for Alltel and Centennial. Is that a good starting point when we're thinking about 3Q? I know you've talked about the idea that we might have some bleed through but it didn't like it was a big deal. So I just want to get a sense for what we should be thinking about from a starting point and then obviously if there's an iPhone refresh there might be other issues there.

And secondly, can you guys give us any sense of the percent of the iPhone activations that were the 3GS and also how many of the iPhones are upgrades? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, Mike, on your first question with regard to margins, I certainly view it as a good starting point. The 42% is a good starting point to looking towards the margins for the rest of the year and certainly that's how our team is looking at it. As you point out appropriately, we have had some great sales and depending upon volumes exceed where we [are at] today, that will pressure margins but quite frankly, we've had great sales already and we are at the 42% level that you referenced. So that I think is a good starting point.

I will -- I think, Mike, we will pass on giving you the details on any of that information and I will leave it to Brooks's team to distribute that information as appropriate.

MIKE MCCORMACK: That's fine. John, just maybe a quick follow-up on the storm costs. I'm assuming that hit Wireline. Can you give us an impact on the Wireline margin for the quarter?

JOHN STEPHENS: Yes, the impact of the costs were about $50 million, so it would have been about 30 basis points on that margin. So that's what they were. Those were really the tornado costs. We refer to them as the storm costs but those were the tornado costs that hit the Southwest and Southeast part of the United States.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Sure. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: I wonder if I could ask a question about cash taxes. You have obviously benefited, as have all capital-intensive companies, from the stimulus plan and accelerated depreciation. Can you just look forward into next year and particularly into 2013 as that starts to reverse and give us a sense of what we should expect in terms of cash taxes?

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Craig, I appreciate that. Everybody here knows I like talking about taxes. Specifically, it has provided us a benefit and it is -- provides some benefit for us and our decisions to invest in capital. While we've got great demands on our mobility network and great customer adds, it is an appropriate time to make those investments because of the bonus depreciation rules. So we are trying to take all things into account in making those decisions.

I view it this way. Yes, depreciation is something and these bonus depreciation rules are something that even out over time, but we continue to focus on cash strategies at the Company and if you look at my 12/31 '10 financial statements, my annual report, you will see that even though we had significant bonus depreciation over the last three years, our deferred tax liabilities actually went down fairly significantly.

So we manage that tax liability from all aspects of our business. But you are right, the bonus depreciation does level out over time and we see that in the quite frankly in the 2013 and years after viewpoint.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Maybe just a quick one and then a broader question. First on the CapEx guidance that -- the move higher here. I'm just wondering is this sort of one-off and tied to specific projects in Wireless or is the interpretation here that we're sort of stepping up longer-term capital intensity in the business?

Then second I guess just broader question, there's been a lot of talk and focus recently on cannibalization risk to traditional text messaging in particular with some of the data points coming out of Europe. Can you guys talk us through maybe why it's different here and what in your mind are the real barriers you have in place to seeing cannibalization of text messaging? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Jason, on your first question on CapEx, I don't view it as a step up or down either way in a change in kind of the long-term viewpoint on CapEx for the Wireless business. I view it as our business units sold a lot more phones and was real successful in the business and the volumes of use by our customers is greater than we expected. So we are making the investments today so that we can provide them the best quality service.

Additionally I will tell you that because of the current environment and the bonus depreciation rules, it makes it economically from a cash flow perspective better to do it today than maybe wait till next year. So we are just trying to be prudent with the shareholders' money and have that opportunity that was provided by the Economic Recovery Legislation and utilizing it. That's really how we view it and really focused on the customer and making sure they get the best service.

With regard to text messaging, it's just a really different set of facts for us. First of all, we have bundled plans that tie text messaging into our voice and data services. We have unlimited texting plans that are very attractive. We just have a much different economic situation that doesn't easily invite anybody to come in and try to interrupt that revenue flow that's coming to us.

Particularly we have a postpaid contract environment where we provide subsidies on the phones and customers come to us because we do do that and while it does generate some issues with regard to our margins, it also provides us a tie-in to the customers that allows us to manage through some of those issues that you are referring to.

So we monitor it real closely. We keep our eye on that revenue stream because it is important to us, but I do believe we are much different than many of the stories that are coming out of the European markets for the texting issue.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That's helpful. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Maybe a follow-up and then a question. First on the branded data devices, you talked a little bit about this earlier. This has been a fairly slow grower versus the industry overall. As you roll out LTE sort of second half and then next year, do you expect that to accelerate and get a little more aggressive there?

Then second on Wireline broadband, sort of net neutral for quite a while here, at least relative to the industry. Is the shrinking overall sort of losses in non-U-verse areas or is this just fairly neutral across the board? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Phil, on the data devices, we saw some growth this quarter. Computer branding devices I think were in the 550,000 range, 545,000 range, and we saw and certainly driven by tablets and particularly we saw some growth in our postpaid tablets, I think about a third or a little less than a third of our tablets were sold on a postpaid basis. So we are seeing that growth today and yes, as we roll out LTE and get into a different collection of products that are going to be out there, we are real excited about that, so yes.

Additionally because we are in this unique position of onerous economics on a business that touches not only Wireless but Wireline consumer and Wireline enterprise, we feel like we are pretty uniquely positioned to utilize those data devices with our enterprise customers, providing their employees mobility opportunities. So we are excited about it. We look forward to it and we have seen some growth in this quarter better than we've had in the past.

With regards to broadband, the critical issue for me is while we did perform better in this second quarter than we did last year, we did have about 12,000, 14,000 lost customers. But the reality of it is we had over 400,000 customers convert from DSL to higher-speed U-verse type broadband. That includes some small business customers.

The point there for me is that we are here once again giving you another example of where we are transitioning the business to the next generation high-value services, where we have real good retention, real good service opportunities, and really good value opportunities for our customers. I am much more excited about that and what that will play out, particularly with the ability to bundle it with mobile, that we have, and that's where we are focused on the business.

PHIL CUSICK: So as we think about the areas that are not being upgraded, is there sort of a -- the business is falling off in those areas, or again they are sort of stable in those markets?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think we are seeing some challenges in those markets, and I guess the long-term response that we are going to have to that really is going to come out of what Wayne was talking about with regard to the merger transaction, in the sense that once that approval is reached and we're able to build out, we're going to have 97% of the country covered which is really going to be probably a similar level percentage of all our customers. And we will be able to, if necessary, if it's appropriate, to provide that kind of service to them. I think that's the longer-term answer.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thanks, two different areas of questions. First maybe, Wayne, if you could just talk a little bit about there's been some high-level departures of the DOJ. And then yesterday a senior senator came out on the judicial committees saying we should block the merger. Do either of those things have a material impact on your ability to close the transaction?

Then secondly, the incremental spend that you are talking about here, so the extra $1 billion, is this an acceleration of your 4G LTE spend? Is it additional backhaul? Is it extra 3G? Is it all of the above? Could you just give us an idea of where that might wind up falling? Thanks.

WAYNE WATTS: Chris, this is Wayne. I will go first. With respect to the changes at the Department of Justice, look, I have a lot of respect for Christine Barney and I would have loved to see her stay there until we finished this transaction. She obviously had an opportunity she took advantage of, and we wish her the very best there.

Having said that, she has left behind an extraordinarily talented staff, a staff that we have been working with on a day-to-day basis on this transaction and they are going to continue to work hard and push through. I think that's why even Christine said that she did not view that her leaving would change the timing of the transaction and I believe that to be accurate.

With respect to Senator Kohl, we have a great deal of respect for Senator Kohl and his staff. I have met with him and his staff a number of times and we often have very candid discussions. This is one where we simply disagree on the outcome here. But most importantly, we have to recognize that while Senator Kohl's opinion deserves a great deal of respect, he is not a final decision-maker and there are certainly examples where Senator Kohl has opposed transactions that were approved, and we believe that will be the case here as well.

So the short answer is, Chris, I don't think either one will have a material impact on the timing or the outcome.

CHRIS LARSEN: Wayne, I would like to follow up and this may be more Jim's area, but any sense for how fast you might see new appointments at the FCC for those vacant seats or soon-to-be vacant seats?

WAYNE WATTS: The only thing I can say is the understanding we have is the administration is working hard to get those slots filled and I'm sure they are going to continue to do that. We hope that they do.

JOHN STEPHENS: Chris, with regard to your questions on CapEx, I think the answer is yes, it's on all of the items you mentioned. But I would give you this focus. It's really a focus on the Wireless CapEx spend and it's across in the categories you talked about, but it's really focused on providing a better experience to the customer and handling the volume increase we have seen because of customer growth and quite frankly more customer usage.

So the short answer to your question was yes.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks a lot. I appreciate you taking the questions.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. I am actually going to kind of follow-up on one of the questions Phil was asking about the data devices. If you isolate the announcements here around tablets, what's interesting is what a small percentage of overall tablet sales are being sold with cellular capabilities. It just seems like you've got this huge opportunity to penetrate this rapidly growing product category and you haven't quite clicked on it yet.

I'm just wondering is it as simple as getting the LTE and putting more speed into the device or are you considering something maybe broader here in terms of how customers would pay for those things? For example, would you move to more of a subsidy model to get the price point down? Do you think that the service pricing could be tweaked a bit? I'm just wondering where you think your best opportunity here is?

JOHN STEPHENS: I think we're looking at it from a number of different perspectives. I think one thing we need to realize is the ability to have these float on the Wi-Fi networks and to utilize the capacity on the wired networks is important to the customers and important to us.

Secondly, I would tell you that I think one of the ones -- opportunities we're most excited about is incorporating this, connecting it with our enterprise customers, and working with the CIOs on all the different aspects of security and availability and so forth. And we are working -- we work hard to do that. That's an opportunity we all excited about.

But I will tell you in this quarter we did make progress, so I don't want that to be lost. I think it is important. I understand your commentary on -- comments on long-term much greater opportunities. I don't disagree with those at all, but we are making progress and we are looking at how we -- and working very, very actively on a number of different approaches with regard to that. LTE will certainly help, that's for sure.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thanks for taking the questions.

BROOKS MCCORKLE: Keely, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick follow-up questions. So first on the CapEx, I'm wondering if you can give us some context for how much of the increase in spending is sort of frontloading capacity build out to take advantage of depreciation, beneficial tax regime versus just dealing with the massive amounts of data growth that you are seeing on the network right now? What I'm really trying to get a context for is what happens to Wireless CapEx in 2012 and beyond?

And then quickly on ARPU, as you sort of take that -- the penetration of smartphones sort of 50% to 70%, can you maintain that ratio of smartphone ARPU to non-smartphone ARPU or does the sort of the next slug of smartphone ARPU have to come in at a lower base so that we continue to see sort of overall postpaid ARPU continue to decelerate? Thank you.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Jonathan. Quite frankly on the CapEx issue, it is both. It's both prudent taking advantage of the financial rules that are out there today with regard to taxes and with regard to our strong balance sheet, our ability to do it, and also demand. I am not trying to -- we are not changing in any way shape or form guidance on a long-term basis with regard to our CapEx. I'm not even commenting on that. I'm not suggesting that you change that.

What I am suggesting is that we are prudently taking the opportunity because of the incentives that are there today to move forward to give our customers better service, and we feel good about that.

We feel really quite frankly, we feel good about having the demand. The customers are demanding the subs. That's a good thing.

With regard to the ARPU issue, remember much of the increase in the -- or the increase in the penetration is from existing customers. So generally speaking when they go from a non-smartphone to a smartphone, their ARPUs whether they are above the average or below the average are going up. And so they are going to -- that maybe only incrementally -- but they are going up and so they're going to be positive towards that postpaid ARPU average growth because they're coming out of the quick messaging devices or whatever and moving up the chain.

What is going to be challenging to us is more of the tablets and the other devices that are going on the postpaid that may have lower ARPUs than our average today. But we are still optimistic about the revenue situation in total and quite frankly, the postpaid situation.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: John, what would CapEx be if there weren't sort of bonus depreciation rules in place this year?

JOHN STEPHENS: You know, Jonathan, I can tell you that we had guidance out there at the mid-$19 [billion] range and now we are moving it to around the $20 billion range. I will leave it to you to make your judgments on whether you want to tie that to bonus depreciation. But I will tell you it was certainly taken into account and I've got to tell you, my Wireless business unit has done well and added more subscribers than even I thought. And I have a very high opinion of them, so we are responding to that.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Great. Thank you very much.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thank you, Jonathan. I think we're going to wrap it up here. I want to take a moment just again to tell you thank you very much for taking part in the call and let me close by highlighting a few key points.

First, we delivered another strong Wireless quarter in a very competitive environment, led by our mobile broadband strategy. We had record mobile broadband sales, smartphones and data-only devices, had solid revenue growth and our 10th consecutive quarter of postpaid ARPU growth.

As you heard from Wayne, we are comfortable with the progress of the T-Mobile merger transaction and we remain confident of its approval.

Second, we continue to see encouraging signs in our Wireline business as we transform it from voice to next-generation IP data business. Revenue trends continue to improve and U-verse is leading continued consumer year-over-year growth. Strategic business services are driving improvements in business trends.

Third, we had solid financial results and strong cash flows, which allow us to continue to invest in our growth platforms and to return significant value to our shareholders. This gives us good momentum going into the back half of the year and makes us optimistic about our future.

Once again, my sincere thanks for being on the call today and as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T. Have a good day.

BROOKS MCCORKLE: Thanks, everybody. Thanks, Keely.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | e1101 : Economic Growth | ghurr : Storms | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110804e77l00462
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  AT & T  Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,653 words
   PD
20 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T first-quarter 2011 earnings release.

   TD
For the conference, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions. Instructions will be given at that time. If you need any assistance during the call, please press star, then zero. And as a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

With that being said, I'll turn the conference now to Brooks McCorcle. Please go ahead.

BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter conference call. It's really great to have you with us this morning.

As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T, and joining me on the call this morning are Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer; Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility and Consumer Markets; and John Stephens, AT&T's Controller and CFO-designate.

We'll cover results, then we'll follow with Qs and As. Let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information, and the presentation slides that accompany this call are available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. And as a reminder, that's www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three, and that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website at www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before I turn the call over to Rick, I would like to call your attention to slide four, which provides a financial summary. Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.57, which is roughly in line with adjusted EPS from first quarter a year ago and is clearly up from our reported EPS of $0.41 this time last year.

Our results this quarter also include approximately $0.02 of pressure from Alltel integration costs. As we mentioned to you earlier this year, these merger-related costs will also impact margins, wireless churn, and subscriber numbers, which Ralph will cover in a few minutes. We will also see some impact continuing into the second quarter as we complete customer migrations, but overall the integration process is going well and is in line with our overall expectations.

Consolidated revenues were up 2.3% year over year, thanks to continued strength in mobile broadband, U-verse services, and strategic business offerings. Consolidated operating income margin remained stable even with strong sales of smartphones, and cash flow continues to be strong with cash from operating activities totaling $7.7 billion and free cash flow of $3.6 billion.

With that, I will now turn the call over one last time to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Brooks. Good morning, everyone. Let me start with a couple of comments on the quarter overall. The highlights are on slide five.

First off, we had a terrific start to the year. We saw a continuation of the positive revenue trends we've seen the past few quarters. We had a very strong wireless quarter with double-digit revenue growth, stable trends in wireline revenues driven by U-verse expansion, and growth in strategic business services.

Going into the quarter, we knew that with another carrier offering the iPhone for the first time, there was the possibility of some natural volatility and our mobile broadband strategy would be tested as never before. I'm very pleased to tell you that the results show our strategy is working. Our wireless business is performing at a high level, and customers, both new and existing ones, continue to choose AT&T.

Smartphone sales continue to be strong. Postpaid ARPU continues to grow at a good clip. Churn remains relatively stable both year over year and sequentially. Plus, we continue to expand in the new wireless growth areas of connected devices and tablets. Ralph will provide you more details in a moment, but mobile broadband is driving unprecedented growth in our industry, and we're pleased with the results we're seeing.

We also continue to be pleased about the transformation of our wireline business. U-verse continues to scale, helping drive consumer revenue per household up more than 6%, and strategic business revenues had its best quarter in more than two years. So on a number of fronts, it was a positive quarter and a good start to the year.

With that as background, let's look at detailed results, starting with consolidated revenues on slide six. First-quarter consolidated revenue totaled $31.2 billion, up $717 million, or 2.3%, versus a year ago. That increase was due to double-digit wireless growth, continued U-verse growth of more than 65% year over year, and stable trends from our business segment.

You see these trends transforming our revenue mix. In the first quarter, 74% of revenues came from wireless, from wireline data, and managed services. That's up from 70% a year ago and 65% two years ago. Revenues from these growth areas were up more than 9% in the first quarter. We are well positioned here and we expect these trends to continue to drive topline growth for the Company as we go forward in this year.

Now I'd like to turn it over to Ralph de la Vega -- Ralph, as you know, runs our wireless and wireline consumer businesses -- for an update on those areas. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT & CEO MOBILITY AND CONSUMER MARKETS, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Rick, and good morning, everyone. It's great to be with you today.

As Rick mentioned, we faced a lot of questions with another iPhone competitor entering the market. That made it a little harder to predict what was going to happen in the first quarter, but at the same time, we had confidence in our mobile broadband strategy, our network, and our ability to compete.

Going into the quarter, we told you we had good plans in place. We told you about the stickiness of our customer base and we told you we were prepared. I'm very pleased to say that not only did we deliver another solid quarter, but in many ways we had our strongest first quarter ever.

Take a look at some of our accomplishments on slide seven. Double-digit revenue growth; best-ever first-quarter net adds with gains in every category; best-ever first-quarter smartphone sales, almost equaling our seasonally strong fourth-quarter numbers; best-ever first-quarter connected device net adds, continuing our strong performance in this area; and we continue to add branded computing subscribers, mobile devices such as tablets, air cards, MiFi, and other data devices to our network at a strong pace.

We also posted year-over-year postpaid ARPU growth for the ninth consecutive quarter as more subscribers added data services, a record that none of our competitors can match. And in a quarter that we knew could be volatile, we had postpaid subscriber growth.

Even with these strong sales, wireless service margins were more than 40% when you exclude the Alltel and Centennial merger costs. All in all, an outstanding quarter, especially when you consider the impact of the mergers. Without a doubt, it was a quarter that validated our strategy and our ability to compete.

This quarter's performance helps you understand why we're so excited about mobile broadband opportunities. We're just at the beginning of something really incredible. Mobile broadband has become the critical technology driving growth and innovation. When you think about the additional capabilities to reach that the T-Mobile acquisition provides, you understand why we're so excited about this opportunity.

With that, let me cover wireless revenue on slide eight. Our focus in mobile broadband continues to drive strong growth. Total wireless revenues were up $1.4 billion, or up 10.2%, and wireless service revenues increased 8.6%, up more than $1 billion, versus the first quarter a year ago. This includes growth in both data and voice revenues.

Postpaid ARPU grew 2.4%, which includes pressure from the impact of the Alltel merger. Without this pressure, the increase in ARPU would be pushing 3% for the quarter.

There is no better place to see the success of our wireless strategy this quarter than our net adds and churn, and this is covered on slide nine. Even in a quarter which we knew would be challenging, we added nearly 2 million subscribers. This includes growth in every product category. Connected devices led the way. We added 1.3 million during the quarter.

We also had positive postpaid net adds for the quarter, adding more than 60,000. Excluding the negative impact of the merger integrations, postpaid net adds were around 165,000 in the first quarter. Prepaid net adds for the order were 85,000, and we had another solid reseller quarter with more than 560,000 new subscribers.

Even though iPhone exclusivity ended in the first quarter, the churn impact was minimal. Total churn was relatively stable with last year's level, and excluding merger impacts, postpaid churn was stable sequentially and up only seven basis points from the first quarter last year. If you dive a little deeper, iPhone churn by itself was the same year over year. And iPhone sales increased, which means we continued to grow our iPhone base this quarter. Keeping churn levels low is critical to wireless growth and profitability, and that is why we have a strong upgrade program.

We've also built a sizable part of our postpaid base on family and business plans, about 80% overall, and these customers are more loyal with lower churn rates. These results speak volumes about our wireless business. New customers are choosing AT&T and existing ones continue to stay with AT&T in record numbers.

Another part of the strategy that paid dividends was our focus on smartphones. The details are on slide 10. Smartphone sales helped drive wireless data revenue growth of 24%, up nearly $1 billion year over year. We had our largest first-quarter smartphone sales ever, signing up 5.5 billion customers, both upgrades and new subscribers. The number of smartphones on our network increased by about 2.4 million in the quarter, up 9 million in the last 12 months. These results reflect another strong quarter for iPhone activations, with more than 3.6 million activated during the quarter. That's almost 1 million more than last year, with 23% of these subscribers new to AT&T.

We also had a strong quarter with other smartphones, selling more than 2 million other smartphones this quarter. That's twice as many as we added in the first quarter of 2010. This was driven by BlackBerrys, Windows Phone 7 devices, and significant growth in new Android models. In fact, during the last six months, our monthly sales of Android devices have more than doubled.

We still see a lot of upside here. About 46% of our postpaid base uses smartphones today, but our smartphone sales rate is approximately 65%.

This quarter, we also began breaking out the number of branded computing subscribers added to our network. These are devices such as tablets, air cards, and netbooks. We added more than 420,000 this quarter to reach 3.4 million. That's about twice as many as we had 12 months ago.

Most of these were tablets, with more than 320,000 added. These customers continue to choose AT&T for a reason. Network capabilities matter to them, a faster nationwide mobile broadband network, using voice and data simultaneously on their devices, and international roaming to 224 countries thanks to our GSM network. All of these capabilities make a difference to our customers, and they are a big reason we had such a strong wireless quarter.

As you might expect, strong smartphone sales and high upgrade levels had an impact on margins, and the details are on slide 11. Smartphones tend to have higher subsidies than quick messaging devices and feature phones, but they also have a very attractive customer profile as well with lower churn, higher ARPUs which are about 1.8 times our other devices, and strong data growth.

That's why we implemented an aggressive smartphone promotion strategy in the first quarter, slightly increasing our advertising and marketing spend. You can see the results in our smartphones sales. In the first quarter, we had about 2 million more smartphones sales than we did in the first quarter of 2010. About 9% of our postpaid base upgraded their device in the quarter, signing a new two-year contract with the Company. Without the merger upgrades, about 8% of our base upgraded during the quarter. Again, that speaks volumes about the customers' confidence in AT&T, especially this quarter.

These sales did impact wireless margins. In the first quarter, our wireless EBITDA service margin was 39%, down from the year-earlier quarter but up sequentially. Factoring in customer migration costs from the Alltel and Centennial mergers, service margin would have been 40.5%. Wireless operating income was up more than 13% sequentially to almost $4 billion.

Now let me take a moment to discuss our wireline consumer results on slide 12. We had another strong quarter with our U-verse services. We've done an outstanding job scaling this business within the last few years with solid net adds, strong revenue growth, growing penetration, strong voice and broadband attach rates, with growing Triple Play ARPU, and improving profitability. This helped drive our third consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth in consumer wireline.

We added 218,000 U-verse TV subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 3.2 million, up about 900,000 over the past year. Broadband and U-verse voiceover IP rates remain very high. More than three-quarters of U-verse subscribers have a Triple or Quad-Play bundle with us, and ARPU for these customers continues to grow significantly, up 15% year over year to reach almost $170. U-verse now is on an annualized revenue stream of approximately $6 billion.

We also continued our recent trend of total wireline broadband net adds, up 175,000. Together, IP products now represent a $10 billion annualized revenue stream and nearly half of total consumer wireline revenues, growing at over 26% year over year.

That covers wireless and consumer. I'd now like to turn it over to John Stephens to discuss wireline business and consolidated results. John?

JOHN STEPHENS, CONTROLLER, CFO-DESIGNATE, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Ralph, and good morning, everyone.

Let's first take a look at business customer trends, which are on slide 13. What we are seeing so far in 2011 is consistent with the fundamental trends we saw last year. Revenue trends, while still down, have been stable the last three quarters, particularly when you adjust for the third-quarter 2010 sale of our local Japan assets.

But there are some encouraging signs. Strategic business services' revenues from products such as ethernet, VPNs, and application services were up almost 19%, our strongest quarter in more than two years. This drove business IP revenues up more than 8%, once again led by the growth in VPNs.

These results continue trends we have seen throughout this downturn -- consistent investment in strategic business solutions and IP data, services that help drive productivity and efficiency. This has transformed our business wireline revenue mix. Data and other growth areas, such as managed services, now comprise 61% of our revenues, up 200 basis points in the past year. We expect this shift to continue as more and more businesses move to the cloud and IP-based solutions, areas where we are well positioned.

We also continue to execute well. Operating expenses are improving, helping drive margin expansion. So there are some encouraging signs. Any economic improvement would be beneficial, as we have not built an economic turnaround into our expectations this year.

Now let's look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 14. For the first quarter, margins were up sequentially, but down from a year ago, at 18.6%. On the wireless side, this reflects a couple of things, merger integration and related costs that Ralph mentioned and significantly higher smartphones sales. Our wireline operating income margin was 11.5% in the first quarter, down slightly from the first quarter last year.

We remain focused on cost initiatives throughout the Company, as evidenced by the total force reductions of almost 6,000 this quarter. This helped offset margin pressure from declines in voice revenues and storm-related expenses that occurred in the West in the first quarter.

Our commitment to operate as one AT&T continues to deliver financial benefits as we consolidate and integrate wireless and wireline operations. And as we target operational efficiencies and simplify product offerings, we have continuing opportunities for cost savings. These initiatives are going well and help us sustain solid margins while also serving customers with a (technical difficulty) operations.

Along with solid margins, we also continue to deliver strong free cash flow. Our cash flow summary is on slide 15. In the first quarter, cash from operations totaled $7.7 billion. Capital expenditures totaled $4.2 billion, with a more than 50% year-over-year increase in our wireless capital to reach $1.9 billion.

Free cash flow before dividends was $3.6 billion, and we made a dividend payment this quarter for $2.5 billion. In terms of other uses of our cash, we reduced debt by more than $1 billion in the first quarter, and debt is down almost $4.5 billion over the past 12 months. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio is now at 1.53.

Our strong balance sheet and cash flow continued to give us the flexibility to invest in the business through both capital improvements and strategic acquisitions, while also returning substantial value to shareholders. With that, I will now turn it back to Rick for closing comments.

RICK LINDNER: Thank you, John. Let me recap the quarter on slide 16.

First, we're off to a good start for the year, with solid revenue growth in both wireless and consumer wireline and stability in our business markets. Second, we had another very strong wireless quarter, a performance that was particularly satisfying when you consider the challenges we faced.

We told you last quarter that we expected positive contract subscriber growth for the year, even with the introduction of another carrier for the iPhone. And we delivered on that outlook in the very first quarter. When you add in record first-quarter net adds, strong sales of branded computing subscribers, and higher postpaid ARPU, you can understand our confidence in the broadband strategy and mobile broadband opportunity.

We're also very pleased with the continued transformation of our wireline business. In fact, fast-growing data and video services now exceed voice revenues in wireline, thanks to U-verse and continued strong growth in strategic business services. And our financial strength and cash flow remains strong, allowing us to return value to shareowners as we continue to invest in our business. So we're off to a good start to the year with solid first-quarter operating results and a positive long-term outlook for the business.

Brooks, that concludes our prepared remarks. I think we're ready to take some questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, John, why don't we open up for some questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: First, Rick, wishing you all the best on your retirement. You'll be missed. Thanks for your help.

RICK LINDNER: Thank you, Simon.

SIMON FLANNERY: Ralph, could you update us on the LTE rollout? What are the key steps you're going through right now where you stand, and what's the updated timing and POP coverage on that? And any updates you have on sort of network performance in some of the major markets currently. That would be great. Thank you.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Sure, Simon. Our LTE rollout is on track and continues to move at the same pace prior to the announcement of the T-Mobile transaction. We're planning to commercially launch service mid-year and we plan to cover 70 million to 75 million POPs by the end of the year.

Our network team is working around the clock, doing the necessary modifications and building the network. We've got handsets and devices ready to go, so we're really excited. What I'm really excited about is we had a very good first quarter, and we have not yet turned up our LTE capability. So, I expect that future quarters when we have that capability in hand will even give us better momentum.

SIMON FLANNERY: And on the network performance today?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: The network performance today, Simon, is getting better. We've got the nation's fastest network, and it keeps getting faster.

We saw an increase in national broadband speeds over the last six months. We've had solid improvement in voice metrics thus far this year. We've improved both voice retainability and voice accessibility. The only concern we have with network is long-term capacity constraints that we face with spectrum, and as you know, that's one of the things that will hopefully be relieved with the T-Mobile transaction.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Rick, again, we enjoyed working with you, and good luck to you in the future.

RICK LINDNER: Thank you, John.

JOHN HODULIK: Just a couple of questions on wireless. Actually, Rick, in the past you guys have said you thought the churn levels would be elevated in the first half and start to head down in the second half, given the expiration of the exclusivity. Is this the kind of increase in churn -- churn was -- the increase was certainly much less than we thought. Is this the kind of level that you think we should expect to see going forward here maybe in the second quarter, or do you think that the expiration of some of the contracts that you guys signed two years ago accelerates that a bit?

And then, secondly on wireless, the prepaid numbers, the net adds of 85,000, a little bit less than we thought. Verizon is testing some paid plans. Is that an area where you think you might need to get more aggressive?

RICK LINDNER: John, let me -- I'll give you a perspective on churn and the impacts there and the contract customers, and then I'll let Ralph address the prepaid wireless question.

In terms of churn, frankly, we expected a slight uptick in churn when another carrier launched the iPhone. Our expectations, I think, were generally less -- more modest in terms of churn increase than external expectations. We believed in our broadband strategy, our wireless strategy. We felt we were prepared for changes in exclusivity, and actually, the results came in better than we expected.

And as you heard from Ralph, there was very, very modest change in overall churn and in postpaid churn levels, and I think one of the most surprising areas, perhaps, is the fact that iPhone churn basically stayed flat. It did not increase. And I think as you think about what drove that and what caused those results, frankly I think it had less to do with customers being under contract. Of course, we always work hard with our upgrade policy to keep customers under contract and we do believe that it helps overall churn levels.

But the fact is that it was well known for months and quarters in advance that another carrier would launch the iPhone. And yet, we continued to see customers upgrade their devices, enter into new contracts in the third and fourth quarters last year in record numbers, and that continued into the first quarter of this year when the phone was available on another carrier.

And the reality is, even if customers were under contract, they had the ability to break that contract, pay a termination charge, and most likely take that device that they had and sell it and recover most, if not all, of that contract termination. So I don't think having customers under contract had that large of an impact.

What do I do believe has an impact is what Ralph touched on earlier, and that is that the device -- and you have to remember the iPhone is a device that carries a lot of data usage and a lot of traffic. For heavy data users, being on our network, having a faster data experience, having simultaneous voice and data, having the ability for high-end users who do any amount of international travel to be able to use that device not just in the U.S. but around the world, all of those things were important to the iPhone customer base.

And so, I think that speaks as much as anything to what we saw in the first quarter into churn levels. And as we go forward, based on what we've seen certainly to date, we are not expecting significant changes in those churn rates or in the iPhone churn rates as we go forward in the balance of this year. Ralph, do you want to touch on prepaid?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, let me add a couple of thoughts, John, on that same subject, and then I'll talk a little bit about our prepaid, but one of the interesting things in the quarter, to add to what Rick has said, is that our momentum for sales actually increased throughout the quarter.

What we saw happen early in January when the iPhone was announced to go to another carrier is customers took notice, waited to see what was going to happen, and then once they compared and they understood that on our network the iPhone works faster, that it has simultaneous voice and data, and it works in over 220 countries, I think they made their choice, and we saw that increase in the February and March timeframe, so we're very pleased with the momentum. I think the customers understand the trade-offs and they're making their choices. And I'm very, very pleased that our marketing message got through, and that we maintained and actually grew momentum throughout the quarter.

In terms of prepaid, we continue to look at a number of things in prepaid. You probably saw that we just announced a new, and our first, smartphone prepaid with LG. It's a low-end smartphone on the prepaid market. We think that there is the same level of interest in that market for data in a prepaid product, so we've launched it and we think -- we have high hopes that that will stimulate prepaid demand. But we continue to look at all other kinds of aspects of the prepaid business to grow it, but to grow it profitably.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Rick, good luck in your retirement.

I wanted to just follow up on two things. First, on the business revenue side, could you talk a little bit about how we should look at the stabilization in enterprise and small business revenue, maybe what drove that in the quarter, and is this the turning point where maybe in the next few quarters we could start to see some sequential growth take shape? And on the other side of the global business segment, wholesale looked like it took a step down in the quarter. If you could talk a little bit more about what happened on that part of the local business revenue. Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: Thanks, Mike. This is John. A couple of things with regard to the enterprise space revenues.

After taking into account the sale of our Japanese local asset business, we did see a stabilization of the trend. I think for us, it's the movement toward the IP and the strategic services, which is helping us trend that. We are -- we have not planned for an economic turnaround, but as that occurs, we will see those trends improve throughout this year and into next year, and I guess our viewpoint would be that we would hope for positive revenue in that area in 2012.

On a longer-term basis, we believe it to be a GDP or GDP-plus type business.

On the small business side, the opportunities there are really in the data side and our IP-DSLAM strategy where we've got about 50% of our central office covered with the IP-DSLAM capabilities, which is allowing us to provide some really competitive products in the data area. When you combine that with our unique position to provide mobile services, we believe we are seeing some traction in the small business area.

But that has been tempered by the fact that business formations in that space are just really challenged right now. That's an economic matter that I think any participant in the market is dealing with.

Lastly, on the wholesale side, we just continue to see challenges in all aspects of that business as our customers continued to trim their networks and look for efficiency. And that's an area that we'll continue to focus on as we go forward.

RICK LINDNER: Mike, this is Rick. I think on just a couple of points, I'd add on the wholesale side and the wholesale numbers you're looking at, I think as we kind of disclosed the breakdown of our business segments, we include -- we group wholesale along with federal and government, education, medical segments of the business. And so, if you just look at our pure wholesale portion of the business, we've seen some improvement there, and in fact, we've seen some nice results driven to a large degree by providing ethernet transport to cell sites for other carriers.

But, we are seeing some weakness in the government areas of the business. On the federal side, federal revenues are still growing year over year. But the growth rate in this quarter declined, and I think at least to some degree, that has had to do with budget issues in Washington that are causing different agencies to tighten their belts a little bit. And then, of course, in the state area, the budget pressures there are having an impact. But wholesale by itself is moving along pretty well.

When you put it all together, our expectation as we go forward in this year will be to see improvement in the revenue trends on a year-over-year basis. We expect to see that as we move into the second, third, and fourth quarters. I think the extent of that improvement and certainly the point in time when we get back to positive revenue growth in business is heavily dependent on the strength of the economy as we go forward in the balance of this year.

OPERATOR: David Barden, BofA Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the question, and Rick, obviously I'd like to echo all those sentiments. Good luck in the afterlife.

And just questions, number one, if we could return to the wireline margin question. Obviously, you guys highlighted a couple of qualitative issues. Could we talk a little bit more about quantification in the quarter of maybe some of the seasonal step-ups and the storm costs, and how we should think about that margin maybe lifting back up in the coming quarters? I mean, this was the first time in, I think, maybe 10 quarters that we actually saw the total value of expenses go up rather than down.

And then, I guess, the second question, maybe Ralph, just on the ARPU side, could you talk a little bit about, at this stage of the game, what's driving ARPU? Is it getting the feature phone subs into that $15 price tier? Was it really about selling these $50 iPhones and upselling guys who are already in the integrated device tier up to the smartphone level? What's really the mechanics behind where ARPU is going today? Thanks.

JOHN STEPHENS: This is John Stephens. On the first issue you had with the margins, quantifying the first quarter storm-related costs over time, maintenance repairs, and then some of the payroll tax issues, it's about 100 basis points or about $150 million.

And so, we would expect -- that's included in this first quarter, and we would expect things to improve and grow margins going forward.

A couple of other things that you're seeing that we're dealing with is the growth in our U-verse business, while very positive and a good story and good overall growth, brings with it some lower margins from our legacy products. I think you're familiar with that. But we do expect to see continued improvement in margins throughout the year. I'll hand the other -- was the other question over to Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, I'll take that one. David, the thing that is driving ARPU is our fundamental strategy to continue to move customers into smartphones with higher revenue data plans.

So what we did this quarter which worked extremely well was to offer customers lower price options to get into a smartphone, not just from the point of view of the price plans, but also the device pricing. The iPhone 3Gs at $49, selling very well. We also have the HTC Inspire and the Motorola Atrix, two brand-new Android devices that are selling very, very well. So what you see are people that are stepping up from quick messaging devices and feature phones and stepping up to the higher data plans, and that's what's driving ARPU.

DAVID BARDEN: And if I could just quick follow up, Ralph, just -- I noticed that you guys shared smartphone penetration of the base this quarter. Could you share the integrated device penetration this quarter, which I think is something you guys have been sharing for the last couple of years? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, I think the integrated device penetration stayed approximately about the same level as we did last quarter. So we increased -- smartphones to integrated devices stayed at approximately the same level as they did last quarter, and we grew the overall smartphone base at the same time, so that's very positive for us.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Good morning, and Rick, let me add to the list of congratulations.

Could you drill down a bit on the wireless consumer versus enterprise trends? It's not something you break out, but is it fair to assume that enterprise wireless has started to show some acceleration, and if so, what does that say about consumer on a net basis? And then, similarly, if you could just share a little bit about the porting ratios that you had outside of the iPhone, what were you seeing with respect to other carriers beyond just the Verizon iPhone impact?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Craig, in terms of consumer versus enterprise, we've had very good success on the enterprise side, both in CR use and IR use.

Our customers in the enterprise side, of course, are just following this wave of growth that we're seeing with smartphones and, specifically, tablets. So we are very pleased with the results, and they complement the growth that we have seen in the consumer markets. So, all the metrics that we've talked about overall are doing as well or maybe a little bit better on the enterprise side. So we are very, very happy with the enterprise results.

In terms of the porting ratios, porting ratios since the beginning of the year and through the iPhone release through another competitor have actually gone up after our customers made their choices and started re-upping the contracts and signing up in what turns out to be a record quarter for smartphone sales, so we're very pleased with the performance with our enterprise business and we're also very pleased with the uptick in the porting ratios that we have seen subsequent to the launch.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Can you share any quantification of either of those impacts?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: No. We do not provide that data publicly, Craig.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES INTL (AMERICA): Rick, I'll test your math knowledge one more time before you step down, but just thinking about wireless margins, and we strip out the impact of Alltel and Centennial, it looks like cash costs were up about $1 billion year over year, and obviously you had 2 million additional smartphones, including iPhones. But could you just help us understand maybe the differences in [SAC] between an iPhone and a regular smartphone, and then maybe secondarily, the impact of Verizon getting the iPhone on, whether it's marketing or advertising, is that sort of a one-time expense that we can expect to go away? And congrats again, Rick. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: I'm sorry, Mike, I didn't -- what was the last part of your question?

MIKE MCCORMACK: Just when we think about that billion-dollar cost increase year over year, how much of that is just incremental SAC related to smartphones and iPhones versus spending in advertising and marketing because of the Verizon iPhone coming online?

RICK LINDNER: Mike, I think the majority of the cost increase, and certainly the majority of the margin impact that you see year over year in our results, is related to the smartphone sales and the increase in those smartphone sales year over year.

What we're seeing in the businesses is two factors that are impacting margins. One is higher upgrade levels. So those overall volumes and upgrades are higher, and then we are seeing a significant mix shift out of lower-end devices, some lower-end feature phones, and even, versus what we've seen in the last couple of years, a lower mix in lower-end quick messaging devices toward smartphones.

Now obviously, there is some upfront cost to that. We believe there's significant advantages to it, advantages in terms of customer satisfaction in churn, significant advantages in ARPU. Even when you go from a quick messaging device to a smartphone, there is a significant ARPU benefit there. But the actual cost by device depend upon the individual smartphones that you are selling because those devices as well vary by device in terms of subsidy.

But let me just leave it with that the majority of that cost increase had to do with additional subsidies related to smartphones, along with, obviously, we are putting a lot of investment into the network to handle the volumes and the traffic that we are seeing, and when you put that additional investment in, it increases our costs associated with cell sites and cell site leases, equipment maintenance. There's a lot of trailing expenses. All the backhaul associated with it.

And so, those are the two areas where we're seeing some cost increases. And the cost increases in the network side associated -- is really associated with volumes and revenues, and it's not having as significant an impact on the overall margin percentage. But the smartphone penetration, the upgrade volumes and so forth, is having more of an impact there. And that's something Ralph and his team are working very hard on in terms of, as we go forward, managing those levels and managing costs to drive margin improvement as we go forward in this year.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Rick, if you don't mind, just maybe give us a little bit of detail in the step-down in D&A. Is that the change in useful lives or is it something else we should be thinking about?

RICK LINDNER: No. It's -- if you look at depreciation itself, year-over-year depreciation itself was up slightly, as you would expect.

Amortization was down, and that was simply merger-related amortization, primarily in wireless, but actually both in wireless and wireline. It's just falling off. Within the depreciation categories, I think we did have a small decline in depreciation in the wireline business, but it was more than offset by increases in wireless, and on a net basis consolidated, there was a small increase in depreciation.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Thanks, and best luck, again.

RICK LINDNER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Rick, I'd echo the congratulations. We'll definitely miss you.

In terms of wireless trends through the quarter, Ralph, you had some interesting comments on the trend rate, saying momentum improved through the quarter. I'm trying to get specifics here. Was this an iPhone-specific comment and, I guess, to what extent was this tied into the $49 pricing on the 3GS product you have, or was this more of a comment on broad momentum in wireless, i.e. you've weathered competitive LTE launches with Thunderbolt, etc., and really see holistically momentum improving through the quarter?

And then, I guess, second question just on ARPU. The rate of postpaid ARPU growth, I think, was positive relative to expectations this quarter. Are you comfortable that the rate of growth continues to improve from here? I guess you get some benefits from lapping Alltel in 3Q, so it's some momentum there, but are we comfortable that it continues? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, Jason, this is Ralph. And yes, what happened with momentum, it was -- holistically, it wasn't just to one specific device. What we really liked is that we had good momentum from the iPhone portfolio, but we also had some terrific momentum from the new Android portfolio.

The sales of Android devices with the Motorola Atrix and the HTC Inspire, our brand-new Android devices, are off to a very good start. So we saw a great impact on momentum from our iPhone portfolio, but also the Android portfolio was very strong, as were other devices. So holistically, it was a very strong quarter. Once customers got over the lull of what to expect, they saw what the competitor had and they made their choices. So I feel very, very strong about that.

When it comes to ARPU, I feel even better because we have just begun to roll out the 4G Android devices. And we know we have LTE coming in the middle of the year and in the second half of the year, Jason.

So, my expectation is once customers get to see the mobile broadband strategy that AT&T has, where you're going to get a great LTE experience with these new devices, but then you're going to fall back to our HSPA-plus capabilities, so that the transition from high speed of LTE to high speed of HSPA-plus is almost seamless is something they're going to love. That to us means higher ARPU, more data usage, and we feel very strongly that we are on the right path, promoting the right products, and with the network capabilities we're going to have by the end of the year, I feel it puts us in an even better position than we are in this quarter.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: John, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Just following on from the wireless margin question. Rick, for you, since this will be the last time we have you, and congratulations again, is -- should we see margins in wireless expand during the course of the year as some of the pressures that you sort of built up for in the first quarter from a cost perspective actually don't increase? And then, over time, can we still get to mid-40s EBITDA margins in wireless given that the extra cost that smartphones bring with them? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Jonathan, are you hoping that since this is my last call, I'll give all the information that I wouldn't give in the past?

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Yes, the gloves are off, Rick. There's no cost. You can give it all to us. I was just thinking in terms of the wireless margin guidance. This was comments that you had made in the past. And I'm wondering if (multiple speakers)

RICK LINDNER: I've got it, Jonathan. I was just teasing you. In terms of wireless margins and what we expect going forward, we do expect wireless margins to improve going forward in the year.

One of the pressures, as we talked about we had this quarter, was with the migration, primarily the Alltel and to some degree the Centennial customer bases, onto our network and our systems, and in order to make that migration because they're coming largely from another technology, we have to replace handsets, and there is a cost and a subsidy associated with that. First, this quarter was, from a margin standpoint, the peak of that impact. We will see some impact going into the second quarter, but it will be less than what we saw this first quarter.

And that migration, for all practical purposes, will be complete by the end of the second quarter. And so, we'll see a natural increase in margins as we go forward due to that change.

In addition to that, as I mentioned earlier, there is a number of initiatives we are working to drive margin expansion and better margins in the wireless business. You saw us across the Company reduce force pretty significantly this quarter, nearly 6,000, and some of that benefit will flow into the wireless business and certainly it will benefit overall margins. But going forward, the individual quarter results can be impacted by specific product launches in those quarters, and obviously, the volume of smartphones sales and the volume of upgrades will impact individual quarters.

But to your point, we do expect wireless margins to improve, and in our expectations and our planning still move wireless margins into the mid-40s that we talked with you about on a longer-term basis.

With that, folks, if I can, let me offer just a couple of closing comments. First off, we entered this quarter and this year with some questions and some uncertainty primarily related to the change in the iPhone exclusivity and the impacts that would have on our business. And as Ralph said in his remarks, hopefully we've answered those questions. Was there an impact from another carrier launching the iPhone? Well, the answer to that is yes. There was. We saw a very small increase in postpaid churn and we saw a slight decline in overall flow share.

But the impacts were significantly less than many in the financial community and the media expected, and frankly, the impacts were less than we expected. And we continued to grow our postpaid base. We continued to grow our iPhone base. We continued to grow postpaid ARPU and had significant growth in wireless data revenues.

And I think that speaks to several things. I think it speaks, first of all, to the strength of our postpaid customer base and those specific customer relationships. I think it speaks to the ability of Ralph de la Vega's team to execute a plan and to compete in the marketplace. And I think it also speaks to the strength of our wireless data network and our franchise overall.

This quarter's results give us a base to build from and momentum for growth as we move into the second quarter and into the balance of this year. And beyond 2011, we look forward to closing our acquisition of T-Mobile and to delivering all of the benefits and all of the promise of a strong nationwide wireless broadband network to our customers, to the nation, and to our shareowners.

One last thing before we end the call. As all of you kindly mentioned in your questions, I have announced my retirement, and this is my last earnings call with you. I would be remiss if I didn't tell you what a pleasure it's been working with all of the talented analysts and owners who have followed our Company over the years. It's been an honor to have this position, and I know I'm leaving it in the very best of hands with John Stephens and the rest of the AT&T team.

And on behalf of that team, we want to tell you once again how much we appreciate your participation on these calls. And as always, we want to thank you for your interest in AT&T. And with that, I'll hand it back to our conference operator John to close out the call today.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for using AT&T's executive teleconference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110504e74k0028l
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,209 words
   PD
27 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter 2010 earnings release. For the conference, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for your questions. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

With that being said, I'll turn the conference now to Brooks McCorcle. Please go ahead.

   TD
BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our fourth-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us. I know that many of you are dealing with a lot of snow this morning, so a special thanks for the extra effort to be here.

As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T. And joining me on the call today are Randall Stephenson, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Randall will provide some opening comments and perspective on 2010 and our outlook; Rick will cover results; and we'll take your questions.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information, and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T's website and that's www.att.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three. That says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of the factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website. And again, that's www.att.com/investor.relations.

With that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Randall Stephenson. Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks. Good morning to everyone. Before Rick covers our results, I want to take just a couple of minutes and offer my view of the business, and what you should expect from us in 2011.

And as you've seen in our release, we had a very productive 2010. Our revenues grew; we grew earnings; cash flow was strong; we closed the year well; and we expect another solid year in 2011 with continued revenue growth, margin expansion, and growth in EPS and free cash flow. As we look ahead, our confidence in the industry and our business, in particular, continues to be very high. We have invested heavily over the past few years, and those investments are beginning to scale. It's driving revenue growth and margin improvements, and you know what these areas are.

U-verse has driven growth in our consumer revenues now, each of the last two quarters. Based on the results so far this year, we're adding more Pay TV subscribers than any other US provider. Our VPN capabilities have proven to be a really strong platform for our strategic business services, and these services are going at a consistent mid-teens clip. On top of these, mobile broadband is obviously our big driver. We just posted the best wireless net add year in our history.

In the fourth quarter, our mobile data revenues grew better than 27%, and we've grown post-paid ARPU now for eight straight quarters. This mobile broadband phenomenon just continues to exceed all of our expectations. Our industry has, frankly, never experienced anything quite like it. We haven't talked about 4G yet.

As you know, we've completed our nationwide HSPA Plus deployment, and where we combine that with advanced backhaul, we're getting 4G speeds today, up to 6 meg. We have planned to launch around 20 4G devices this year, two in the first quarter. And then on top of this, we've accelerated our LTE deployment. When you combine HSPA Plus with LTE, it's going to result in a much more consistent 4G experience for our customers. Then, on the business side, when you take these mobile broadband capabilities and then layer on cloud and applications-based services, it really begins to let customers mobilize everything they do.

So these are all large opportunities; they're scalable opportunities; and they're all early in their growth cycles. As you can see from our results in sales of tablets and connected devices, and in our strong growth rates and strategic business services, we're way out front in each of these areas.

Now, while the future mobility will be driven by broadband, mobile voice quality is obviously important. Over the last 45 days, with our vendors finally clearing their backlogs, we brought online a significant amount of new capacity. Our call retainability across the country is up 20 basis points at about 99%. We've seen even greater improvements in Manhattan and San Francisco, and you should expect voice quality improvement throughout this year.

So that's just a real quick overview. Again, 2010 was a very productive year. We're executing well. I expect another strong year in 2011 in our key platforms -- mobile broadband, business solutions and U-Verse. We think they're going to provide a nice platform for growth in the years ahead.

So, Rick, I'll turn it over to you.

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Randall. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to start by providing a consolidated financial summary, which is on slide five.

When you look at 2010, I think our financial results speak for themselves. They were strong across the board. Revenues for the year were up 1.4% and 2.1% in the fourth quarter. Consolidated margins improved, even with strong sales of integrated devices. As a result, we grew adjusted earnings by 10.6% for the year.

In the fourth quarter, we had reported earnings per share of $0.18, and that includes $0.26 of pressure from the year-end mark-to-market change in our benefit plan accounting, which we announced a couple of weeks ago; $0.09 of pressure due to severance charges; and $0.02 of pressure from asset impairments. Excluding these one-time items, earnings per share for the quarter totaled $0.55, and that's up 10% versus the fourth quarter a year ago. Cash flow continues to be strong. Free cash flow was $3.1 billion in the quarter and $14.7 billion for the year.

Now I'd like to take a look at revenue growth and revenue mix on slide six. Our fourth-quarter consolidated revenue totaled $31.4 billion and that's up $653 million or 2.1%. The drivers continue to be strong wireless growth, and U-verse, which is improving our wireline consumer results, and continued strength in strategic business services. These trends continue to transform our revenue mix.

In the fourth quarter, 73% of revenues came from wireless, from wireline data, and from managed services, and that's up from 65% two years ago. Combined revenues from these sources were up 9% in the fourth quarter. And in fact, the fourth quarter marks the first time where our wireless revenues have surpassed wireline. We're confident that this mix shift will continue, as mobile broadband continues to be a huge growth driver.

You see the impact of mobile broadband in our wireless results starting on slide seven. It was another terrific wireless growth quarter. Total wireless revenues were up $1.4 billion or 9.9%, and wireless service revenues grew 9.6%, up more than $1.2 billion versus fourth-quarter a year ago. This was driven by continued subscriber gains and strong data adoption. Data drove our eighth consecutive quarter of postpaid ARPU gain -- a record unmatched by our peers -- up by 2.2%. And we continue to have the highest postpaid ARPU in the industry.

Churn, both total and post-paid, continues to reach or match best-ever levels. We also had our best net add quarter ever, adding 2.8 million subscribers in the fourth quarter. In fact, we had our best-ever year with 8.9 million subscribers added to the network in 2010. That doesn't include those added through the Alltel property acquisition.

Net adds in the fourth quarter were led by an increase of 1.5 million connected devices, the highest quarter ever. These devices bring lower ARPUs but attractive churn and margin characteristics. Post-paid net adds for the quarter were 400,000. Pre-paid net adds totaled more than 300,000, with strong iPad and Android-based tablet activations. In fact, during the quarter, we added 442,000 tablets to the network. We also had a solid reseller quarter with nearly 600,000 new subscribers.

Our data revenues continued their exceptional growth -- the details are on slide eight. We grew wireless data revenues by more than 27%, up more than 1 billion year-over-year. Integrated device sales -- those are handsets with QWERTY, or virtual keyboards, in addition to voice functionality, are a key driver of this growth. We had another incredible integrated device quarter -- our second-highest sales quarter ever -- signing up more than 7.4 million subscribers, both upgrades and new customers. These sales netted 3.4 million new 3G post-paid integrated devices in the quarter and were up more than 13 million in the past 12 months.

Our results also reflect another strong quarter for iPhone activations, with more than 4 million activated during the quarter, resulting in 90% of our iPhone base being under contract. In addition, our other smartphone sales increased significantly over the previous quarter. ARPU for integrated devices continues to be strong -- 1.7 times our other devices. And these subscribers tend to be very sticky for us, with more than 80% of integrated device subscribers on family or business-related plans with churn levels well below average. The good news is, we continue to have room to grow. About 60% of our post-paid base use these devices today, but our sales rate continues to increase and is now more than 80%.

Obviously, integrated device sales, along with high upgrade levels, have an impact on margins. The details are on slide nine. Within integrated devices, we're also seeing a shift to a higher mix of high-end smartphones -- devices that use an advanced operating system such as RIM, Apple OS, or Windows 7. These devices tend to have higher subsidies than quick messaging devices, but they also bring higher ARPUs, due to more robust data capability.

Our customers continue to upgrade to higher-end smartphones in record numbers. In the fourth quarter, we had about 2 million more smartphone sales than we did in fourth quarter of 2009. Over 9% of our base upgraded their device in the quarter, signing a new two-year contract in the process. And I think that says a lot about the confidence and the loyalty they have in AT&T.

Smartphone sales and upgrade levels did impact fourth-quarter wireless margins. In the quarter, wireless EBITDA service margin was 37.6% -- that's flat sequentially and down from fourth-quarter a year ago. And for the year, our EBITDA service margin was 40.7%. The offset to higher device subsidies is the long-term value these customers bring, including higher ARPUs, lower churn, and strong data growth. And you see that in our wireless operating income, which was up more than 10% for the year, to reach $15.3 billion.

I'd like to turn now and cover our wireline results, starting with consumer trends on slide 10. This was another strong quarter for U-verse, and it drove our second straight quarter of year-over-year revenue growth in consumer wireline. We had 246,000 U-verse video net adds in the quarter, and we hit an important customer milestone earlier this month when we reached 3 million subscribers.

Broadband and U-verse voiceover IP attach rates remained very high. More than three-quarters of U-verse subscribers have a triple or Quad Plate bundle, and the ARPU for these customers continues to grow, up 14% year-over-year. As a result, our U-verse economics are attractive and growing. It is now a $5 billion annualized revenue stream, and U-verse exited the year with positive impact on margins.

We also had another strong quarter in total broadband adds, up 210,000 year-over-year. Our wireline consumer IP data revenues -- that's U-verse services plus non-U-verse broadband -- grew 30% for the year. These products now represent 45% of total consumer wireline revenues, up almost 1,000 basis points over the past year. We expect continued U-verse growth and scale to drive further improvements in our overall wireline financials.

Now let's take a look at business wireline on slide 11. Here, we're seeing the same consistent trends impacting the business that we have all year, as the lack of growth in business formations and employment continue to put some pressure on the wireline business. You see that in our fourth quarter service revenue results, which were down 4.3% year-over-year on a reported basis, and 3.5% after adjusting for the third-quarter sales of the Company's Japan assets.

We are, however, seeing some bright spots in our federal networks contracts and in our wholesale business. We had our strongest quarter of the year in strategic business products. Revenues from these products, including ethernet virtual private networks and application services, were up over 17%. Overall business IPU revenues were up 9% in the fourth quarter and contributed to positive business data growth.

Plus, we continue to do well selling wireless into the business space. We're seeing a fundamental shift, with more enterprises asking us to help them deploy full mobile solutions -- solutions that bring together mobile broadband, cloud computing, seamless access to applications, and even social media. We're well-positioned to lead in this transition and we're excited about this future opportunity.

Now I'd like to take a look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 12.

We said at the beginning of last year that we expected stable to improve consolidated margins when compared to 2009, and we delivered on that. For the year, our adjusted consolidated operating income margin was 18.5%. That's up from 17.7% in 2009. This reflects improving revenue trends in both wireless and wireline consumer, and solid execution of cost initiatives across the Company.

Our wireline operating margin remained stable from 2009, and that was driven by improving revenue trends and good cost management. Across the business, total force was down by more than 16,000. And we're making great strides with One AT&T. As we consolidate and integrate wireline and wireless operations under One AT&T, we continue to drive down costs. These initiatives strengthen our ability to sustain solid margins, and put us in a unique position among our competitors to serve customers seamlessly with a best-in-class operation.

These initiatives have achieved expense savings of more than $1 billion a year. And recently, we launched our next phase of One AT&T designed to simplify our product offerings, and we anticipate significant value from these new initiatives on top of our normal cost management efforts.

Along with solid margins, we also continue to deliver strong free cash flow. Our cash summary is on slide 13. In 2010, cash from operations totaled $35 billion; capital expenditures were $20.3 billion, with a more than 50% year-over-year increase in wireless capital. Our free cash flow was $14.7 billion.

I do need to point out that, as we go forward and prepare to launch our LTE network in 2011, we will no longer capitalize interest for the radio spectrum we purchased to use for LTE. This will increase interest expense and reduce 2011 earnings per share by $0.07, as well as reduce capital expenditures. Dividend payments in 2010 totaled $9.9 billion. Over the last six quarters, we've generated almost $9 billion of free cash flow after dividends.

In terms of uses of that cash, our debt level is down almost $6 billion over the past 12 months, with a debt to capital ratio of 37% and an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.56. Our strong balance sheet and cash flow gives us the flexibility to continue to invest in the business while returning substantial value to shareholders.

And with that, I'll now turn it back to Randall Stephenson for closing comments. Randall?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Okay, thanks, Rick. Before we go into Q&A, I just want to make a couple of additional comments, starting with -- just looking back at the last three years. We've executed with a lot of discipline through this downturn, and we've marketed well, we've won customers. I think we've done a very good job on the cost side.

When you look at the metrics Rick just walked you through, I think it's pretty clear that AT&T is coming out of the downturn stronger, both operationally and financially, than we were going in. We have a better balance sheet, better revenue trends, better margins, and a more growth-oriented business. And all of this reflects solid execution by the people across this Company.

And as you look ahead, the most important thing we've done over the past few years is that we've built and we've scaled some very nice growth platforms for the future -- mobile broadband, U-verse, VPN, and cloud-based business services. And we've invested very aggressively in all these areas.

We've kept CapEx strong; we've acquired High-Quality Spectrum; and while we've done all of that, we've maintained the financial strength to return substantial value to the owners. We've increased the dividend now for the 27th straight year and we authorized a stock repurchase. So as we look forward to 2011 -- and I've laid this out for you on slide 15 -- we have a solid plan to continue growing revenues, earnings, and cash flow. So here are the variables.

We do expect healthy contract subscriber growth in 2011, even with the introduction of another carrier for the iPhone. Now, obviously, this is going to make things a little bit harder to predict early on in the year, but with the introduction of new Android and other devices, we think the smartphone market will continue to be very strong for us. This is consistent with what you saw in the fourth quarter, which was our second-highest smartphone quarter in our history.

We also had a strong fourth quarter in tablets and connected devices. We expect that momentum to continue through 2011 and beyond. We expect to expand our wireless and our wireline operating margins. And excluding the capitalized interest impacts, we expect 2011 EPS growth in the mid-single digits or better. As the market settles beyond 2011, we have an opportunity to accelerate our EPS growth even further. We're targeting capital this year in the low to mid $19 billion range and we expect free cash flow will be up from 2010.

So this is an outlook that reflects the quality of the growth platforms. It also reflects our proven ability to execute on the cost side. And I'd add that it does not include any kind of significant lift from the economy. I'm hopeful we're going to see more from the economy this year. We're beginning to see a few encouraging signs, but we do not have any kind of economic turn built into our expectations. That just reflects our approach -- as most of you know, we tend to be very conservative in these areas.

So we had a very productive 2010. We're confident 2011 is going to be strong as well. What has me most excited is this industry's potential over the next few years and how AT&T is positioned here in the long-term.

So, Brooks, with that, I think we're ready for questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, great. John, I think we're ready to open up the line for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Quick questions on the guidance. I guess, as it relates to the earnings growth for 2011, I would have expected something more of a -- I guess you could call it a loss of iPhone exclusivity dividend, in terms of somewhat faster earnings growth.

Maybe, Randall or Rick, could you talk a little bit about your strategy going into 2011? Obviously, a lot more smartphones; but do you expect to -- and a lot of confidence about being able to grow the post-paid base, which I think is -- you don't hear a lot of. But do you expect to have to spend more or advertise or increase subsidies? Or how do you expect to -- is that really the difference there, that margins might not expand as much as the lower iPhone shipments would probably suggest? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes. Hi, John, this is Randall. I'll take it first and then let Rick add some color to it.

But when you look at the guidance, there are a couple of things that are underlying it. And I just spoke to them, but just very briefly -- obviously, the economy. We're not expecting any kind of dramatic lift in economic growth. And this is -- we think it's fairly conservative. I think it's prudent that we set our cost structure around a slower economic growth scenario. But we're beginning to see some encouraging signs. Businesses are investing again and we're seeing early indications of that.

We are starting to see some hiring, but the reason we moderate this is business starts continue to be negative across the country. And that's probably one of the best early indicators for us, when this thing begins to turn. So we're hopeful, as we kind of work through this first quarter and second quarter, we begin to see the business starts turn. And with any luck, we get some upside from the economy there.

The second area, though, is this idea of an iPhone going onto a second network. This is going to create some volatility in the first part of the year. And it's going to be kind of hard to predict the first part of the year, as Verizon launches an iPhone.

But as I mentioned in the comments, I feel fairly confident we're going to be able to grow over the course of the year through the disruption. And then there's a couple of reasons for this. One of them is, if you just look at the fourth quarter, it was no secret that the iPhone was going to be available on a competitor's network. And the competitive environment was reflecting that. In spite of that, we had our second-best integrated sales quarter ever. iPhone sales continued to be very strong in the fourth quarter. In fact, it was among the best quarters we've ever done as well. We sold 4 million iPhones. That just kind of gives us some confidence in terms of customer loyalty to the network.

And so, again, it will probably -- it may be rocky in the beginning of the year, kind of volatile, hard to predict, but we think as we work through it and the market stabilizes, we'll be able to grow through it.

The other thing is, is the sales mix will change this year. We have not been very aggressive in the Android portfolio and we're bringing Android into the mix very aggressively this year. You've seen some of the devices that we'll be bringing in. So we're going to be a heavy participant in the Android market this year, and so you're going to see a significant shift in mix.

And then you add Windows 7, and RIMs products are actually starting to do very well, and getting a lot of traction in the market and in our sales channels. We think we're actually going to have a nice mix shift and do quite well in those areas.

And then, last, we're really starting to feel good about the network situation. We're making a lot of progress here. As I commented in the opening comments, we had a significant clearing of backlog from our vendors in December. We were having some serious capacity constraints in key markets. And we really saw the backlogs clear. We spent the last 45 days literally just bringing capacity online in a rather dramatic fashion, and we're seeing those numbers move.

And so, you put all this together, we actually feel like, again, with a little volatility in the first part of the year, we can grow contract subscribers through the course of this year.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: I guess, John, the only thing I'd add to that in terms of any color is, obviously, as Randall said, there is probably a little more volatility. It's a little more difficult to project this year, 2011, and certainly the first half of this year. But there is -- obviously, there's an interplay in the modeling and the guidance and the expectations between -- on the wireless side, between volumes and mix of volumes in device sales, and what kind of margins and earnings growth you expect.

And, as Randall says, as we look at the trends, and we look at the trends particularly in the last quarter or two, what we're seeing is continued strong iPhone sales despite the anticipation of the iPhone being non-exclusive. We did over 9 million iPhones in just the last two quarters. That's a pretty phenomenal number when you think about it.

That, plus the high upgrade rates we've seen and the growth we're seeing in sales of other smartphones -- smartphones with a RIM operating system and a Windows operating system; the Android models we've got coming on into the device line-up in 2011, I think are very exciting. So our guidance is based on a presumption that we're going to continue to see strong sales of smartphones and we're going to continue to grow the business. We're going to grow it in customers, in ARPU, and, obviously, in revenues.

In terms of how you compete in this environment, again, we feel we're in a good position. We're going to have a tremendous device portfolio for customers to choose from. We've got a network evolution path, I think, that is -- will be the most elegant from a customer standpoint, by having both HSPA Plus across our entire footprint as we roll out LTE. And then, finally, as Randall said, we are seeing and expect to see continued significant improvements on the voice side. So that's essentially the position that we'll compete from as we go into '11.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just following up on that last question. Is there any change in the trends in January since the formal announcement of the Verizon iPhone?

And then can we talk about the cost side of the equation in '11? You had strong productivity performance, 16,000 headcount reduction. Where are we in terms of ongoing opportunities, both wireless and wireline, in 2011? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, Simon, it's too early, I think, to comment much in terms of January trends. It's -- you always have kind of a -- a bit of a lull as you get past the holiday season. But again, we're seeing, I think, continued good sales activity.

I think the iPhone 3G model at a $49 price point will be an attractive model for our customer base. And again, as you look at the fourth quarter activity, the level of upgrades we had, which is really the second-highest level of upgrades and customers signing two-year contracts that we've ever had, only surpassed by the third quarter of last year, combined with the sales of smartphones -- I think both of those bode well for the business in an environment where the iPhone is not exclusive.

In terms of the cost side -- and we touched on this a bit in presentation, but -- we see continued opportunities, both in the wireless and wireline sides of the business. And it's driven by a couple of things.

First, the One AT&T initiatives, which it's really -- it's been a series of initiatives over the last few years. And as we mentioned, we just, at the end of last year, kicked off a new set of One AT&T initiatives targeted at simplifying some of our product offerings. But these initiatives, if you step back from it, over the last several years, have consistently been providing cost reduction on a year-over-year basis in excess of $1 billion a year. And we see the same kind of opportunity going forward as we look into 2011 and 2012.

But secondly -- and this is kind of a broader piece of it and it gets to a comment Randall made in the presentation about the opportunity to begin to accelerate some of the trends in the business as we get even past 2011 -- is, we talked about the change in the mix of our business. And what you're seeing is that some of the growth platforms -- and U-verse is a perfect example -- those growth platforms are beginning to scale. And just a natural part of our business -- as those products and platforms scale, the margins improve. So we're seeing steady, consistent margin improvement there.

And as we go forward, and particularly as we get out past 2011, you start to see some of the drag on the business from legacy products, like wireline voice, start to decline. It's a combination of those two things that I think gives the business opportunity to begin to accelerate, both in terms of revenues and margins, as we go forward even past 2011.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: You'd done a pretty good job but, obviously, adding iPhones and integrated devices, maybe just a comment on post-paid ARPU growth. It looks like we've been bouncing around here in the sort of mid-2% range. Do you guys have any expectation for an acceleration there as we go through 2011?

And then, secondly, Verizon seemed to put up a pretty good quarter that contributed to net adds using these modified devices for the iPad. Does that cause you guys to think about changing your strategy there? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Let me start, Mike. This is Randall.

In terms of ARPU, what's driving ARPU for the industry is moving these post-paid basis onto integrated-type devices. And we have been hitting this really hard for the last 3.5 years. In fact, we're, by a sizable margin, way out front of the industry on this. We have more than 60% of our customer base, post-paid customer base, now on the integrated type devices.

And if you look at just the sales channel, the sales funnel, about over 80% of the sales into our post-paid base are on integrated devices. And so -- and by the way, that number just keeps creeping up quarter-in and quarter-out. And so I don't think 80% is going to prove to be the cap on what percentage of these bases have integrated devices. So we've got quite a bit of room to run, just in our traditional post-paid base, on ARPUs. And then those ARPU improvements are significant when they move onto integrated devices.

So we'll continue as an industry to push that. And we'll continue to move that along. I think 80% is going to prove to be a floor and not a ceiling. So, plenty of room there.

When you look -- think about MiFi, we're selling MiFi type capability today. If you think about what those MiFi products are serving, largely they tend to be serving tablets. As you know, we have the 3G capability built into the tablets predominately that we sell. And when you look at what we sold in the fourth quarter, we sold 442,000 tablets that are running on the network. And so I kind of compare the two -- those are equivalent.

So we are having very, very strong results in terms of selling tablets. And I tell you to keep in mind -- we're really early on in tablets. I mean, this thing is still in its infancy. We think this has a lot of room to run. And by and large, the tablet market is being dominated by the Apple products. The new stuff is just now coming online. So you're going to see a lot of Android-type tablets come online and that will push that along as well. So we think we have a lot of opportunity in terms of tablets.

And I would also tell you not to disregard the connected devices. This is a huge growth area for us. So if you think about ARPU being the first place we're obviously going as an industry; smartphones and integrated devices; tablets are going to be a significant driver to revenue growth as we move forward. Connected devices are proving to be very powerful. We added 1.5 million of these in the quarter and kind of setting the pace for the industry. I believe the connected devices products are going to accelerate as we move into 4G capabilities.

So, you put all those together and it gives us a lot of confidence, we're going to continue to grow this wireless business for the next few years.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Yes, thanks, Randall. It does seem like the definition of the different categories of wireless adds is making comparability a lot tougher these days.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, I think it is. And we probably, as an industry, are going to have to land on that. But I think just talking about tablets, it's going to be a category that's very, very important for everybody. And so we're going to give you more visibility into that.

RICK LINDNER: I think one of the strong things about the quarter, Mike, is that we did grow customers across every category. We grew customers in post-paid; we grew customers in pre-paid; we grew it in reseller; and, as Randall said, had a record quarter in connected devices.

There is some comparability issues because, as you know, a large majority of the tablets that we've talked about, those sales were the iPad. And to the extent they're going to consumer customers, they tend to be under a pre-paid rate plan; but it's a plan where we're seeing good, consistent usage and ARPUs from, but we put it in the pre-paid category. So I think as you're comparing our results and as you're looking at growth, it's helpful to understand that, or to put the two categories, the pre-paid and post-paid, together from a comparative standpoint.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the question. So, let's focus a little bit on the wireless margins. It doesn't seem like the guidance implies that the move toward -- or to low to mid 40s like we've talked about. What's going to happen to get to that point, do you think? Number one.

Number two, what's the sort of cost-cutting potential within the wireless business? Can you expand on that a little bit?

And then number three, the upgrade policy here -- still very aggressive, and I see Verizon pulling back a little bit. Is that what's going to -- is that part of what's required to get to that sort of mid-40s margin? And does it make sense to start pulling back here? Or do you give it another year, to really upgrade your base before you start really tightening down on those upgrades? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Yes, those are good questions, Phil. First of all, in terms of guidance and our expectations for wireless margins, we finished the year in 2010 at 40.7 in terms of EBITDA service margin. Our expectation going into '11 -- and beyond, frankly -- is that we'll continue to grow wireless margins. And so I don't think in terms of a longer-term basis or an expectation for that business longer-term hasn't changed.

Our plan is to continue to grow the margins there, to grow it on a consistent basis, and obviously, respond and compete in the marketplace. But there is an opportunity here, and it's important, I think, to take advantage of that opportunity, to migrate your base up into higher-end data-capable devices. And the upgrade policy is a part of that.

But we'll continue to watch and see what's happening in the marketplace, and make decisions that we feel are right for the Company at the time, in terms of striking the right balance in increasing smartphone penetration as well as managing upgrade costs. And that's purely what it is -- it's a balance.

PHIL CUSICK: And what about the potential to sort of cut costs away from that?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Well, two things in wireless. Like all of our businesses, as you continue to grow in scale, you have the opportunities to increase margins. I think a broader device line-up -- and you see us even broadening the device line-up as we go into 2011, just naturally creates a more competitive environment among device manufacturers, and gives you opportunities to mitigate and manage subsidy costs, which are important.

A couple of areas in addition. As we pointed out, some of the incremental areas -- the tablet sales, which come on generally at low to no subsidy levels in many cases, offer good margin opportunities. The connected devices provide incremental margin opportunity.

And on the cost side, the One AT&T initiatives that we're pursuing really allow us to reduce costs, because we're combining organizations and processes that support both wireless and wireline businesses. So those benefits accrue both to the wireline and to the wireless portions of the business.

So those are the things that give you the opportunities to continue to expand the margins there. But we see a lot of upside in wireless margins as we go forward over the next few years.

PHIL CUSICK: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Two, if I could. The first one -- I just wanted to return to this ARPU equation as it relates to integrated devices and smartphones. Obviously, we saw 2.2% post-paid ARPU growth in the fourth quarter; but, if we look at the first half to the second half of the year, it's more like 1% growth. And if we look from second quarter to fourth quarter, it's actually less than half-a-percent growth. And we've seen some of the strongest-ever quarters that you guys have ever reported, in terms of upselling customers and upselling them to integrated devices and smartphones.

And so with the incremental competition we've got coming in 2011, what gives you guys the comfort that just doing more of what you've been doing is actually going to continue to create year-over-year ARPU growth? Because the trends seem to be really sliding towards little or no growth, even now at this stage before the real competition has come.

And the second question is, on the other side, Rick, I think you said U-verse is actually contributing positively to margin now. Could you elaborate a little bit? Is it positive margins? Or is it greater margins than the average of the wireline base helping the overall total? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. First of all, on the ARPU trends, I think I understand that the numbers you were using -- I'm going to use a bit different set of numbers there, but I think we're talking the same thing.

If you looked at our results, our post-paid ARPU growth in the first half of the year, we were in the kind of [3%, 3%-plus] range year-over-year, and in the second half on a year-over-year basis, it scaled down to kind of a low 2% range.

There were two items that had some impact there. The biggest, the largest was the impact of regulatory fees and recovery charges that are embedded in the service revenue and the ARPU. And those fees and charges are just cost passthroughs. And they do go up and down over time, based on the costs incurred. And in the second half of the year, as we reset those costs, the costs had gone down and so the regulatory recovery charge went down.

And so that contributed to really the reduction of going from a 3%-plus kind of year-over-year ARPU trend to a low 2% ARPU trend. So, when you kind of strip that aside, what you're seeing is data revenues and the impact on ARPUs is then -- continue to be very good and very consistent through the year. So that gives us comfort going forward.

And then on top of that, I think, as you continue to see wireless data traffic growth, and you start to think about the opportunities in a 4G environment and the applications there, as that usage grows, you will continue then to see growth in -- growth opportunities in data ARPU as well there. So that's kind of the ARPU trend.

On U-verse margins, let me give you two data points. U-verse has crossed and on a -- looking at the business in total, including not just the recurring margins but the acquisition costs associated with customers, the margins are positive from an EBITDA standpoint. They are below the average wireline margins, but they are positive and they're growing every single quarter. And that's just a function, that's just the normal course that happens when you have a base and the base is relatively small in the beginning. And you're adding a lot of customers, the acquisition cost overwhelms the recurring margins from that base. But we're definitely seeing that trend improve and it's turned positive.

But secondly, if you look at -- put the acquisition, customer acquisition costs aside for a minute, and to give you some idea of the capability in U-verse from a margin standpoint, the recurring margins of our U-verse customers are well into the 40s, which is, obviously, on an EBITDA basis, significantly above our wireline EBITDA margins. So, again, that's what gives us, I think, comfort about the projected improvements and the opportunity we've got with U-verse as it scales.

DAVID BARDEN: Alright. Thanks for the color, Rick.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thanks for taking the question. I just want to -- first, I just want to make sure I have this clear. If you take the 400,000-plus tablets in the pre-paid and then the 400,000 or so post-paid customers on a combined basis, we're in that range of about 800,000 units -- just trying to get back to that comparability issue.

And then, secondly, you exited fourth quarter with a year-over-year growth rate of around [2.1] and the full-year average was around [1.4]. What should we think about, as we're going into 2011, is there anything that should make us think that the growth rate in 2011 on the topline won't be above that of what we saw in 2010, just given the exit ratio? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Your comparison of our post-paid plus the tablets, I think that's a fair comparison. I don't have exact insight into some of the other folks' numbers, but you think about a tablet, which is running a $30 type of ARPU, and put that with our post-paid adds, the two together are probably a good comparison to what some of the others are doing.

In terms of the topline, our guidance is really -- we should see topline growth comparable to what we saw in 2010. And again, so much of this is dependent upon the wireline side of the house, till we get some economic lift on the enterprise business side. I hope we get some upside surprise there, but we're just assuming a fairly low economic growth rate in the -- during the 2011 time-frame, and that we can get the enterprise business side kind of moving towards that growth profile by year-end. But right now, our current estimate is that we kind of keep the topline growth rate about what we saw in 2010.

CHRIS LARSEN: Alright. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Can you give us an estimate on what percentage of your towers have fiber backhaul now and maybe at the end of the year?

Secondly, just to clarify on Phil's question -- Rick, on the iPhone, do you have flexibility to end the one-year upgrade at some point in the next 12, 18 months? And then, lastly, the axis line trends were a little bit weaker this quarter. I know margins were a lot better. Were there some correlation there or anything else going on with axis lines? Thanks.

RANDALL STEPHENSON: Tim, in terms of fiber deployment, we're in the low to mid-20s in terms of deployment currently. We expect, as we go through 2011, that number will significantly increase. We expect 65%, 70% of our traffic to be covered under fiber backhaul as we get towards the end of '11. So you'll continue to see that increase; that will continually improve HSPA Plus speeds, and obviously, it's the same infrastructure than that is used as we roll out LTE.

And it is an important component. You've got to have both the radio infrastructure as well as the backhaul in place an order to maximize the data speeds in these networks.

In terms of upgrades, what we did in 2010, as you know, in the second half of the year, is we did accelerate some upgrades by allowing customers that would have been eligible through the end of the year to begin upgrading earlier in the third quarter. And as I mentioned before, we continually look at our upgrade policies relative to the economics of these customers, what the subsidy levels are, what their usage ARPU and overall relationship with us is. And so I'm confident we're striking a good balance there from an economic standpoint, but we continue to evaluate it.

TIM HORAN: And then on the axis line, trends were a touch weaker?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, actually, we were a bit better in terms of voice connections. I think we're seeing some improvement in the trends and voice connections in consumer. Some of that, obviously, doesn't show up in our axis line numbers, Tim, because about 60% or so of our U-verse customers are using a voiceover IP product. So, the revenues are comparable but they show up as data revenues as opposed to axis lines and voice.

I think we did see some continued declines on the business side and that's a reflection, I think, of two things. It's a reflection of, again, business customers moving to IP-based services. But it's also just some continued weakness, particularly in the (technical difficulty) -- end of the market where we've not had strong growth or positive growth in new business formations. And when you look at our small business base in particular, actually, we're seeing churn rate and outward activity go down and are very positive, but with negative new business formations, we're not seeing the level of inward activity that we'd like to see going forward. And hopefully, that will improve as we go through 2011.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: John, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: And that will be from the line of Brett Feldman with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, thanks for taking the question. Just two quick ones here about your marketing strategy this year in wireless. First, could you maybe give us an update on the experience you've had so far with tiered pricing, you know, the extent to which it's kind of done what you'd hoped it would do, in maybe areas where you might evolve that during the year?

And then the second, you talked about an increasing focus on Android. One of the ways some of your competitors have had a lot of success with that platform is by creating these proprietary 4G brands like Droid and EVO. Are you considering a similar strategy as well?

RANDALL STEPHENSON: On the marketing side as it relates to tiered pricing, Brett, it's -- that has done everything we would have hoped, to be quite honest with you. As you've seen, our data ARPU trend, as Rick articulated, continues to move along at a fairly steady pace. And what it has done -- and I think you see this manifests itself in terms of our penetration of our post-paid base with integrated devices -- it's opened up the integrated device market to a whole new demographic. And so, that's one of the things that has really stimulated and accelerated the penetration of the post-paid base into smartphones.

So, right now I like the structure of it. I like what we're seeing in terms of the customer behavior and the customer usage. And I really like how it positions us as we move forward into 4G networks, and then the ability to, as usage accelerates on these devices, make sure we have some capability to monetize the usage as we move forward.

In terms of Android, we're probably going to be doing a number of things. Android is going to become a very broad-based OS for our portfolio. And there will be some proprietary labeled products. But Android is going to be so broad-based, it's going to be hard to put it into one single category. And so you're seeing a number of things we're doing in terms of tablet devices coming out on an Android platform. This new Motorola, which is a really exciting device -- the ATRIX -- that will not be a proprietary brand, but it will be an exclusive to us.

And so there's going to be a lot of activity around Android, because it is such a broad-based platform. It's going to be utilized in a number of different areas, and it's going to be a high priority for us as we move into 2011. You're going to see a lot of activity from us in Android. So, that's what you should expect.

Now, with that, I guess I'll close by saying I appreciate everybody participating on the call. And by way of closing, I'd just like to outline for you in our discussion today that I think we have a pretty good plan for 2011. It's a solid plan. It's got a conservative economic forecast built into it. It's the kind of plan that I think you've come to expect from us. You know our track record in terms of executing and delivering the types of plans we put in front of you.

And, as I said earlier, our confidence in the industry is really high and the confidence in our Company's ability to execute is really high. So, again, thanks for your interest in AT&T and participating in the call. Look forward to talking to you all. Thanks very much.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Great. Thanks, everybody. John, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: You're welcome. And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | itablcm : Tablet Computers | ivirtusw : Virtualization Software | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3302011 : Portable/Notebook Computers | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrly : Customer Retention/Loyalty | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110210e71r001pc
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,764 words
   PD
21 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter 2010 earnings release. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

With that being said, I'll turn the conference now to Brooks McCorcle, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T. Please go ahead.

   TD
BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third-quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us this morning.

As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T, and joining me on the call today are Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility and Consumer Markets.

Rick and Ralph will cover our results, then we'll follow with Qs and As.

Let me remind you that our release, our investor briefing, our supplementary information, and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. And as a reminder, that's www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three, and that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, and reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website.

Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me call your attention to slide four, which provides a financial summary. Reported earnings per share for the quarter was $2.08, which includes the $0.13 gain from the cash sale of Sterling Commerce during the quarter and another $1.40 gain from a previously disclosed tax settlement. Excluding these gains, EPS was $0.55. That's up about 4% versus EPS for the third quarter a year ago and up about 9% year to date versus the same period last year. That's our third consecutive quarter of EPS growth before significant items.

Consolidated revenues were $31.6 billion, up both year over year and sequentially, and that was led by strong growth in mobile broadband, U-verse services, and advanced business offerings. Even with record integrated device sales, our consolidated operating margin was essentially flat from the prior year, reflecting operational improvements in network and support functions and solid execution on cost initiatives. Free cash flow continues to be strong, $4 billion in the quarter and $11.6 billion year to date.

With that, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks. Good morning, everyone. Before we get into the highlights on slide five, let me first just say we are very pleased with what we accomplished in the third quarter.

First off, we are excited about the trends that we are seeing with revenue growth. Not only did we have a solid consolidated revenue growth quarter that was fueled by double-digit wireless revenue growth, but we also saw wireline consumer revenues grow for the first time in more than two years.

Second, we continue to see the benefits of our mobile broadband strategy. We had just an incredible wireless quarter across most every metric. New customers are choosing AT&T and existing customers are renewing their contracts in record numbers. And I think that speaks volumes about both the strength of our network and the ever-widening selection of devices that we carry.

Ralph will give you more details in a moment, but we are very pleased with the improvement that we're seeing in revenue trends. We also continue to see improving revenue trends in our business markets, and I'll speak to those in just a few minutes.

But from my perspective, the thing I'm most encouraged by is that even with pressure on margins from integrated device sales, we delivered good consolidated margins with earnings growth and continued free cash flow. I think that puts us in great position to have a solid year in 2010 with good momentum going forward.

With that overview, let's take a look at revenues on slide six. Consolidated revenue totaled $31.6 billion. That's up nearly $850 million versus third quarter a year ago, and that growth is due to strong wireless growth, to solid U-verse gains, and to improved business trends.

Our overall revenue mix continued its transformation in the third quarter, with 73% of revenues coming from wireless, wireline data, and managed services. That's up from 68% a year ago and 62% two years ago. Combined, the revenues from these sources were up nearly 10% in the third quarter. And we expect this shift to continue, and it's one of the reasons we have a positive long-term view of the business going forward, as growth of wireless and data outstrips declines of legacy services.

At this point, let me turn it now to Ralph de la Vega, who, as you know, runs our wireless and consumer business, for an update on those areas. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT, CEO MOBILITY AND CONSUMER MARKETS, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Rick, and good morning, everyone. It's great to have this opportunity to talk with you again.

As Rick said, we had a tremendous wireless growth quarter, everything we could hope for, and more. The word you keep hearing again and again is record. As you can see on slide seven, record sales of integrated devices, record gross adds, record customer upgrades, record third-quarter net adds of 2.6 million, record wireless data sales.

We also had the best-ever third-quarter total churn, our seventh consecutive quarter of growth in postpaid ARPU, and we added 1.2 million connected devices in the third quarter, setting the pace for the industry. These were simply the best wireless volumes we have had in any third quarter in our history, off the charts.

But you know what? We believe that we're just scratching the surface here, especially when you consider three areas where the potential is huge. First, we still see a lot of growth opportunity with integrated devices. About 57% of our postpaid base have these devices, but our sales rate is more than 80%.

Second, we believe emerging wireless devices are just beginning to take off. And third, the business base is just beginning to fully integrate mobile data in their operation; lots of opportunity there. So we are very pleased with our third-quarter results and even more excited about the opportunity that lies ahead.

With that overview, let me drill down and cover wireless results, starting with revenue and subscriber trends on slide eight. Our results this quarter shows the strength of our focus on data and ARPU growth. In the third quarter, we accelerated both revenue growth and subscriber growth. Total wireless revenues were up $1.6 billion, or 11.4%, and wireless service revenues grew 10.5%, up more than $1.3 billion versus the third quarter a year ago.

Mobile broadband and strong data adoption drove our seventh consecutive quarter of postpaid ARPU gain, a record unmatched by our peers, up by 2.0%, which includes about 40 basis points of pressure from properties acquired from Verizon Wireless.

For the third straight quarter, we set a new record in terms of total net adds. The strongest first quarter ever was followed by our strongest second quarter ever, and now our strongest third quarter ever with 2.6 million net adds.

Postpaid net adds were about 750,000, up 50% sequentially. Prepaid net adds totaled more than 320,000, with continued strong sales of the iPad 3G. Customer response has been very strong since the iPad 3G was first introduced in late April, and we expect that momentum to continue as we go through the fourth quarter.

We also added 1.2 million connected devices to our network in the third quarter. This is terrific business for us, lower ARPUs but higher margins and low churn, and we are still in the starting blocks with this terrific opportunity.

These results clearly demonstrate the benefits of our mobile broadband strategy. When you look at our net adds, our ARPU gains, and churn improvement, it's clear that our subscriber metrics have never been better and they continue to go in the right direction.

One of the key drivers behind our wireless growth is our integrated device strategy. The details are on slide nine. The rapid adoption of powerful integrated devices has revolutionized our industry, and customer response continues to be incredible. In the third quarter, more than 80% of postpaid sales were integrated devices.

In the third quarter, we had our largest integrated device quarter ever, signing up more than 8 million subscribers, including both upgrades and net adds. We added 3.8 million 3G postpaid integrated devices in the quarter, up more than 14 million in the past 12 months, and ARPU for integrated devices continues to be 1.7 times our other devices.

And these subscribers tend to be very sticky for us. Approximately 80% of these subscribers are on family or business-related plans, with churn levels well below our average.

These results also reflect another record quarter for iPhone activations. More than 5 million were activated during the quarter. That's more than 60% higher than our previous record, and sales continue to be strong.

As a result, data revenues also continue to be strong. We grew wireless data revenues by more than 30%, up more than $1.1 billion year over year.

This was also our first full quarter of our new pricing for wireless data, and the initial results have been very positive. We're also seeing more customers being drawn to upgrade to integrated devices, adding data plans at the lower price points, and then they can migrate up as their data needs grow.

Our network today supports more integrated devices than any of our competitors and more data traffic than any of our competitors. And we lead in connected devices. Slide 10 shows how we've built this leadership position. We have the best portfolio of integrated devices in the industry, using all major operating systems.

That includes Android, RIM, Apple OS, Web OS, Symbian, and last week we announced the addition of three new devices using Windows Phone Seven. Our portfolio keeps getting better. Three new Motorola Android devices are scheduled for the fourth quarter, giving us seven great Android devices for our Company. Plus the BlackBerry Torch, which is exclusive to AT&T, continues to do well. And we just announced that we're launching the Motorola ES400, which is a rugged device for the enterprise space.

In addition to these handsets, we're launching HSPA Plus and LTE data cards, like the Shockwave from Sierra Wireless and the Adrenaline from LG. The Shockwave will allow our customers to connect to our HSPA Plus network, and the Adrenaline is our first LTE-upgradeable device. We also offer some great emerging devices, including the iPad, which begins selling in our stores next week.

Our formula is great devices plus a great mobile broadband network, and we are in a terrific spot for both fronts. We have a terrific technology path for our customers; our strategy to continuously upgrade network speed plays to the strength of GSM technology and provides the most elegant path to LTE, with backwards compatibility at every step.

Slide 11 has more details on our network path. Let me say that we're really excited about our network roadmap. We have the nation's fastest mobile broadband network today and the best transition plan in the market. Because of the technology choices we have made, we will have a significant advantage for the next couple of years at least, and customers are starting to get it. This year alone, we've already spent almost $6 billion, or almost half of our capital expenditures so far this year, on wireless-related investments.

Here is the progress we're seeing from those investments. Earlier this year, we completed the HSPA 7.2 software upgrade, making the nation's fastest mobile broadband network even faster. Now we're in the process of deploying HSPA Plus to our networks. This will again allow us to increase our network speeds, and we expect the software upgrade to be completed by the end of this year.

And all the while, we're making progress with our backhaul upgrades, executing a very aggressive investment and deployment program. This backlog expansion is critical today and is the foundation for LTE.

The same work has to be done to handle the massive growth in mobile broadband. What all this means for customers is a great experience leading into LTE. We will not have the fallback issues that CDMA customers will have as they move from 4G back to CDMA Rev A speeds. Our LTE trials are currently underway in Dallas and Baltimore, with an expected launch in mid-2011 to reach 70 million to 75 million POPs by the end of next year.

Customers are excited about 4G, and over the next couple of years they will expect a smooth, fast ride to 4G, and that's what we plan to deliver. We believe this gives us a great position to continue to capture growth in mobile broadband.

Now, I would like to discuss how these network initiatives, along with subscriber and revenue growth, is impacting our wireless margins and operating income, and those details are on slide 12. Obviously, the record quarter for integrated device sales, which includes about 2 million incremental iPhone activations, had an impact on our wireless service margins. Absent the costs associated with these additional activations, service margins would've been similar to last quarter.

But it is important to keep in mind the long-term benefits these customers bring, including lower churn, higher ARPUs, and strong data growth.

In the third quarter, our wireless OIBDA service margin was 37.6%, down from the year-earlier quarter. We believe the impact on margins will be temporary, and our expectations for total year wireless OIBDA service margins continue to be in the low 40% range.

Looking at wireless operating income, you can see the trends that I am talking about. While the third-quarter operating income was relatively flat year over year, year-to-date wireless operating income is up 15% year over year to reach $11.8 billion.

Now let me turn and cover consumer wireline results, starting with a U-verse update. Slide 13 has the information. We had another solid net add quarter in U-verse TV subscribers, helping drive the first year-over-year growth in consumer revenue in more than two years. We had an increase of 236,000 U-verse TV subscribers, bringing our total to 2.7 million, up more than 900,000 over the past year.

Broadband and U-verse voiceover IP attach rates remain very high. More than three-fourths of U-verse subscribers have a triple or quad play bundle with us, and we've had a very nice rebound in our total broadband adds, up about 150,000 for the quarter. This has led to improved consumer ARPUs and revenue trends.

In the third quarter, wireline IP revenue, and that's U-verse services plus non-U-verse broadband, grew 30%. These revenues now represent more than 42% of total wireline consumer revenues, up almost 1,000 basis points over just the past year. ARPU for U-verse Triple Play customers was about $160 in the third quarter, up 14% year over year.

The U-verse TV experience continues to receive positive customer feedback. The latest J.D. Power study ranked us the highest in every region where we were ranked. We continue to add new features that take advantage of U-verse's IPTV platform. For example, we are the first U.S. TV provider to allow customers to use their Xbox 360 as a TV receiver. This replaces the need for an extra receiver, and allows customers to receive chat and game invitations while watching live TV, and switch seamlessly from game to TV mode.

The U-verse mobile app allows customers to download and watch hit TV shows and much more. It's available on four operating systems, including Android and the new Windows Phone Seven. Innovations such as these has helped U-verse transform our consumer business. We're confident this transformation and the positive impact it has on revenues will continue.

Rick, that covers wireless and consumer, and I will turn it back to you.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Ralph. Before we close, let me provide a quick update on business customer trends on slide 14.

The fundamental trends underlying our business are consistent with what you've seen in earlier quarters this year. We are seeing continued signs of stabilization as we work our way through the economic downturn. But I think what is encouraging to us is the trends of our business customers in investing in productivity and efficiency, which helps drive growth in our strategic business products.

Revenues from these products, such as ethernet, virtual private networks, and application services, were up again this quarter more than 15%. Business IP revenues overall were up 8%.

As you know, during this downturn we've executed a clear and consistent strategy in business markets. First, we've invested right through the downturn, adding capacity, reach, and new capabilities. Second, we've won new business with a number of customer wins that play to both our global and mobility strengths. Third, as we work to make operations and service more seamless for customers, that's given us opportunities to improve our cost structure and grow margins through this downturn.

Because of all of this, we are well positioned as the economy improves over time.

Now let's take a look at margins and cash flow, starting with consolidated margin comparisons on slide 15. For the third quarter, consolidated operating margins were relatively stable at 17.3%, and that's despite wireless margin pressure from integrated device sales. This reflects solid performance across the Company.

Our wireline operating income margin was 12% in the third quarter. That's up from 11.2% in third quarter last year. This reflects improving revenue trends and solid execution on cost initiatives. Across the business, our total force since the end of 2009 is down by more than 15,000.

Companywide, we have a commitment to operate as one AT&T, and that means delivering a single, seamless experience to customers for all of our wireless and wireline products. And as we consolidate and integrate operations, we have continuing opportunities for cost efficiencies. These initiatives are going well, and they have helped us sustain solid margins while also improving customer service.

Along with solid margins, we continue to deliver strong free cash flow. Our cash flow summary is on slide 16. In the first three quarters of this year, cash from operations totaled $25.4 billion. Our capital expenditures were $13.7 billion, and that includes a 55% year-over-year increase in wireless-related capital.

We continue to expect full-year capital investment of $18 billion to $19 billion, although we are trending toward the upper end of that range. Free cash flow before dividends was $11.6 billion and dividend payments totaled $7.4 billion. Over the last six quarters, we have generated free cash flow in excess of dividends of more than $9 billion.

In terms of uses of cash, debt is down almost $4 billion over the past 12 months. That gives us a debt-to-capital ratio of 37.8% and net debt to EBITDA of 1.5. All of this gives us the flexibility to continue to invest in the business and return substantial value to share owners.

Let me close by recapping a few items on slide 17. Again, first, we had a terrific wireless quarter, breaking about every sales record that we track. And in addition, Ralph's team delivered continued growth in postpaid ARPU and lower churn.

We're also very pleased with our wireline consumer business, which achieved positive growth this quarter thanks to U-verse and the transformation those services are making in the business. Combined with continued solid cost management, this helped us deliver very strong financial results with solid revenue and earnings growth and stable year-over-year consolidated margins, even with record wireless device sales.

Put this together with results from the first half of the year, and you're seeing the makings of a very good 2010. Year to date, we are growing revenue, we are expanding margins, we are increasing our earnings. And cash flow remains strong, giving us the ability to continue to invest in the business and return value to share owners.

Brooks, I think we should stop there, and we are ready to take some questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, John, let's open up for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Rick, could we talk a little bit about sequential margin trends, maybe in wireless and wireline? In wireless, it would make sense, I think, given the fourth quarter seasonality we normally see and that you could see -- maybe see some additional pressure on there, especially if the upgrades stay high, if you could comment on that.

And then, on wireline, some of the growth metrics were better than we thought, and despite that you still had better-than-expected margins. I was wondering if that trend can continue as well.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, John. Yes, let's talk a little bit about margin trends. First off, as Ralph mentioned in his remarks, we would expect at this point, margins in wireless to rebound and be stronger in the fourth quarter, versus the 37.6% we had in third quarter.

The amount of increase there and improvement is a little difficult to project at this point. It's going to be based on the volume of integrated device sales, particularly as we go through the holiday season. So -- but even with that, I would expect margins to be a bit stronger in wireless.

One other thing that is impacting or will impact wireless margins in the fourth quarter, and probably for the next two or three quarters, is the transition and conversion of the customer base that we acquired from the former Alltel properties, as we're now getting to the point where we are going to begin aggressively moving that customer base from their current network to new GSM networks to new billing systems, and in the course of doing that we're going to have to provide that base with new devices, and there will be subsidies involved in that. And we talked about all of that as part of the acquisition when we first announced it, but I just wanted to remind you, we are now -- as we move into the fourth quarter, we're going to be getting into that period where we will be going through that activity.

But even with those, I would expect some improvement in wireless margins.

On the wireline side, as you mentioned, John, we've had very good results in wireline margins, and that business is going through a massive transformation as it moves increasingly from voice and legacy data services to U-verse, to IP-based data services and to managed services. We have managed to that transition, I think, very well.

It's an ongoing effort here, believe me, in terms of finding ways to be more efficient in the business, and the one AT&T initiatives that I mentioned in my remarks have been a major contributor to that. And it really does involve almost an internal merger and integration of organizations, processes, systems that support wireless and wireline. And we have to move in that direction in order to be able to interface with customers and provide single points of contact, and that's really the way customers want to deal with us, across both our wireless and wireline product sets, but at the same time, it's contributed to our ability to take a lot of costs out of the business.

As we go into the fourth quarter, I would expect there to be the normal seasonal pressure that we have on wireline margins. And you've seen that typically every year. It's a function of two or three things, one being the fourth quarter typically has fewer business days, which affects things like long-distance revenues, for example. So, it impacts both revenues and margins.

We also typically have a bit higher overtime rates in the fourth quarter, due to holidays and due to some of the typical seasonal weather patterns we get in some of our regions. But beyond that, we will continue to focus on margins on the wireline side.

When you step back from all of that, our expectation is still to be for -- in total for the year, in the -- as we guided, in the low 40s in EBITDA margins for wireless and in the lower 30s in EBITDA margins for the wireline business.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions. First on wireless postpaid ARPU, if we deconstruct what's going on, data seems a little bit stronger, voice a bit lighter, and I'm sure Alltel and, I believe, also a Universal Service Fund cut contributed to this. I just was wondering if you could size those for us, and then help us think about the outlook here for postpaid ARPU growth.

And then second, just quickly, on a buyback, I think there is a sense that a buyback will be a big part of the discussion at the December Board meeting. But I'm wondering, there's been some recent debt rating agency discussions, I think in the late summer, that implied risk to ratings. So I guess the question is how does this play into the approach -- your approach in terms of what the appropriate leverage capacity is for the business and the potential for a share buyback? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Jason, this is Ralph. Let me try to size up the postpaid ARPU question for you.

I mentioned in my comments that the Alltel acquisition impacted us by 40 basis points as the customers that we acquired with those properties had lower average postpaid ARPUs than those of AT&T. So that accounts for 40 basis points.

There's another 70-plus basis points that are accounted for as a result of lower regulatory fees, including the Universal Service Fund fees and the regulatory cost recovery fees.

If you put those two things together, that accounts for almost more than 100 basis points of difference. If you add that to the 2% growth that we reflected in this quarter, then it's pretty much in line with what we have been reporting for the last several quarters, somewhere north of 2% to 3% ARPU growth, and we expect that as we continue to sell more integrated devices, our base has the capability to continue to get on higher ARPUs in the coming quarters ahead.

JASON ARMSTRONG: And Ralph, just to follow up, Alltel was in for the full quarter, but the USF cut, is that a full quarter impact as well? So we're sort of at a good run rate for now?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: The full run rate should be reflected in the fourth quarter, Jason. We'll double-check that for you, but I'm pretty sure it's in for the full quarter.

RICK LINDNER: Jason, on the buyback, first of all, kind of stepping back and looking at the business and cash flows and capital structure, we had another good cash flow quarter in the third quarter, and in fact one of the things we've been very pleased with is, over the last two years as we've gone through a very difficult time, the Company has continued to produce strong cash flow.

And that's given us the flexibility to continue to invest in areas where we see opportunities for growth, including doing a couple of wireless acquisitions that we've closed in the last year. And it's also given us good, solid support for our dividend and growing the dividend, and it's allowed us to pay down debt and strengthen the balance sheet.

We are sitting right now, similar to where we were last quarter about this time, at kind of the upper end of our target credit metric ranges, and part of the reason we've continued to stay at that kind of same range over the last quarter is because we have been absorbing the acquisition of the Alltel properties. As we go forward, as cash flow permits, I think we're going to -- and as we migrate in -- solidly into our target ranges, I think then that gives us flexibility in addition to continuing to invest in the business and support the dividend to look at some other alternatives, like share repurchase.

In terms of the ratings activities, we have essentially not changed our -- for many, many years -- our desire and commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet. And I can tell you in the last six years, we have not changed, essentially, the credit metrics that we target to support a strong balance sheet.

But each of the rating agencies look at the numbers and the results and have their own proprietary calculations and their own targets, and it's different for each one.

And, so, we'll continue to be very consistent in the metrics that we target. In some cases -- for example, I think the rating activity you're talking about is S&P moving us to a credit watch position. If you look at their press release when they did that two or three months ago, and look at the numbers they put in that release, we would have to delever substantially to the tune of as much as $15 billion in order to hit the ranges they were targeting. And I think that's beyond the level that we are targeting in our credit metrics.

So, we continue to be very consistent in how we're applying that. I think that's the right way to manage the business, given the capital-intensive nature of the business, the size of our business, the size of the debt portfolio. I think it's prudent. And we'll continue to be consistent with that as we move into -- firmly into our target credit metrics. As I said, that and the cash flow gives us a lot of flexibility to continue to invest where there is opportunities, to continue to support the dividend, and to consider other alternatives like share repurchase.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the question. I guess, Ralph, I guess my two questions, if I could, are for you. First would be, could you talk a little bit about your reaction to the reports that Verizon has chosen to, number one, price a little bit higher for their entry-level services at $15 for 150 MB relative to you guys? And then, also, their decision to kind of maintain an unlimited data plan relative to where you guys decided to try to cap people out at 2 GB, and kind of your interpretation of that from a competitive standpoint and from how you think that their positioning relative to AT&T will evolve going forward.

And I guess the second question would be within the context of your kind of low 40% margin guidance, I guess based on history, you guys have said that there is a positive net present value proposition for iPhone customers. It would seem that if there is an end to the exclusivity of that iPhone in the future that getting as many of those customers locked down as quickly as possible would be the rational thing to do into the biggest selling season of the year. Could you talk a little bit about your thinking on kind of the promotional and marketing end of the year? Thanks a lot.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: David, it's difficult to comment on competitor prices. I'm going to be very careful, other than to say that I'm glad to see that more and more in the industry are in fact realizing that spectrum is a valuable resource and our pricing data consistent with a valuable resource, that needs to be taken into account.

So I think it's interesting that several competitors are now offering customers the choice of a lower-priced plan if they use a lower amount of data, and that's consistent with our view that that is fundamentally the right approach for the long-term benefit of the industry. So, that would be my viewpoint on that.

In terms of the value of customers that are signing up for either iPhones or integrated devices, those are the highest NPV value customers that we have, so we like to see them sign up in record numbers like we did this past quarter. You know, 8 million in total in terms of integrated devices. It's a fantastic quarter, and I think it guarantees that we are getting under contract these very valuable customers in record numbers, so I'm very pleased with both of these issues.

DAVID BARDEN: Ralph, if I could just follow up on that real quick, would be -- do you feel that if Verizon has an unlimited plan and you have a limited plan, that you are at a competitive disadvantage but an economic advantage? Is that how you think about it, or how should we think about the relative positioning?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Here's the way I would think about it is we had a record sales quarter this past quarter when everybody else is still offering unlimited plans.

It says that the scheme we came up with to give customers assurance that they were not going to incur a lot of overages, and at the same time give them a price break if they use less data, is working extremely well. I was really, really pleased, Dave, to see how customers are signing up in record numbers for both new customers and upgrades. And this is not a significant issue. Our salespeople have no issues in selling our products with their data plans, and we anticipate that those trends will continue into the future.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I was hoping we could talk a little bit about what's going on with smartphones. This quarter, we saw the usual trend where a really strong smartphone sales was correlated with a temporary step back in your margins. As Ralph noted, you're at the point where a large majority of your sales are smartphones, and we're seeing that at every other operator as well. So, with this huge scale that we are seeing in demand for smartphones across the industry, should we expect that you'll get to a point where you're not going to see such high level of subsidization on the devices?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: That's a great question. You know, you would expect that if smartphone sales continue to drive at this range that there would be a reduction in the cost.

And I think what is going to be interesting is to see how some of these smartphones kind of develop in terms of having a lower end smartphone, if that's what customers want. We are seeing an interesting set of devices that can become available that perhaps are lower-cost devices, but they probably also will have lower memory and some other things that lower the price. So it will be interesting to see what customers eventually opt for.

But I think the technology and the capability with these operating systems are that they can be such that they can adapt to also lower-priced SKUs. And the question is would that be something that customers buy? We always have the view that we should give the customer the choice, and that we have a wide range of devices with different price points. So if they want a low-end smartphone that maybe doesn't have as much processing power or as much memory, they could have that and still have all the great access to the web, to their applications with a lower-end device, and our view has always been to give the customer that choice.

BRETT FELDMAN: But how much visibility do we have here? We're already hearing a lot of the prepaid operators saying that the vendors are trying to get to them a $100 smartphone -- not immediately, but also in the not-too-distant future. If the prepaid guys can eventually get there, it would seem that you guys get there. Is 2011 a year where maybe seasonal swings in smartphone sales may not be correlated with such intense seasonal swings in margins?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: It's going to be interesting. My guess is this will develop over time. There won't be a one-time event that will happen on any particular quarter, and if the customers do want lower-price devices, we're going to see it gradually develop.

You know, we've seen all kinds of different capabilities on the devices. The key in my view is will customers want the lower-end device? And look, if they want the lower-end device, AT&T has the volume and the scale to be able to deliver to them as good as anybody on the planet, so I'm very comfortable that if that's the trend, we'll be able to offer a competitive device, but my estimation is, if that happens, it will be gradually over time. It won't be a one-time event in a particular quarter down in 2011.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Two quick questions. First, I was wondering if you could give us a sense for whether there are any big promotions that you expect in -- that haven't been announced yet that would come in the fourth quarter that we could use to kind of gauge where margins would come in for wireless.

And then, second, it looks like you're coming in at the higher end of the $18 billion to $19 billion range for CapEx. Can you give us some kind of sense for what the mix is going to look like between wireless and wireline, and whether we're sort of at the peak spending level for wireless CapEx, and whether that's a level we should expect for the next two years? Thank you.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: This is Ralph. I'll address the promotional and let Rick talk to CapEx. But -- we always have some great fourth-quarter promotions, but I don't think it would be wise to announce to my competitors what we're planning to do. Just rest assured that there's always some great promotions in the fourth quarter. We will have some great promotions in the fourth quarter like our competitors will have, but I would expect it would be similar to what you've seen in past quarters.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Will the one-year upgrade promotion continue, Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: I am not going to be able to comment on any specifics.

RICK LINDNER: So Ralph took the part of the question that we couldn't answer, and then shifted the other one to me. He is starting to get the hang of these earnings calls.

In terms of capital expenditures, it's just -- it's always a function of timing and demand in the business. And so, as I mentioned in our remarks, I think we'll probably trend towards the upper end of the range. Our wireless CapEx is up year over year about 55%. We talked about being $2 billion higher for the year this year versus last year in wireless CapEx, and year to date that's about where we are. So, I think everything is coming in pretty much as we expected.

You did see this year a shift in our -- while the overall capital levels haven't changed dramatically, you have seen a shift between wireline and wireless. I think as we go into the next year or two, I think you'll continue to see some shifts there, and that's a very natural transition. It's following the shifts in the business.

Wireless is nearly 50% of our revenues today.

And in addition, as we look forward over the next year, we've got commercial deployment of LTE on the wireless side, and at the end of 2011 we'll be starting to wind down the primary build activities we had around U-verse. And so, all of those things will contribute, as well as the trends in the business, towards shifting some capital between wireless -- between wireline and wireless.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer & Co..

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Ralph, two questions, if you don't mind. Can you maybe talk about the different handsets out there? It seems like the iPhone, based on your numbers, is still kind of pulling ahead of their competitors here, I guess Droid being the main competitor. When do you think maybe that could reverse a little bit in, I guess, your flow anyway where the Droid and the new Microsoft phones could start to gain a little bit more share on iPhone?

And then, secondly, can you give a little bit more color, when you upgrade to HSPA Plus, what the customer experience is like? Because I assume the churn on the iPhone issue is going to be largely dictated by network quality, and maybe just a little bit more update on where you are with the backhaul upgrades and where we'll be six months from now or so. Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: You know, what is happening in the industry -- and by the way, it is my view that the U.S. now is leading the world when it comes to smartphones and tablets.

The development of the applications and operations systems are leading the U.S. to be at the epicenter of everything that is happening new with smartphones. And I think what you're seeing is more choices come into the marketplace, and every year everybody's phones seem to be getting better and better and better.

So I think what is happening in the industry, the battle is a battle of innovation cycles. Who can innovate quicker and faster? Based on the fact that all these OSes have a very good base capability, it's all now about innovation. I've never seen innovation cycles come quicker.

So, I think what we're going to have the opportunity to do is to offer customers an incredible choice of applications and services based on these innovative capabilities. But if you look at Android, they have some very good and fast innovation cycles. So does Apple. Microsoft just came out, and they've already announced that they are going to upgrade some things in that infrastructure and operating system in early next year.

So I think it will be a race of innovation to see who can develop the most innovative products and services, and the thing that I like about our position is we believe in having a wide choice of OSes, having every single major one, so that if there is any innovation that is important to our customer base, they know they can come to AT&T and we'll be able to have it for them, and that's been our view.

In terms of HSPA Plus, I think any speed that we can provide in the network to make it faster makes all these devices faster. The beauty about it is that the faster network speeds that we're offering today make these devices really come to life. If you have a slower network, I don't think you're going to get the utility out of the processing power and the memory capabilities and the video that these devices are capable of delivering.

So I think our HSPA Plus piece will take it one additional level and give you a fantastic experience when you have one of these processors that now have 1 GHz as a basic core processor. But what we see in the horizon is actually dual core processors -- two processors as fast as 1 GHz each. So, you can imagine that those devices, unless you have a really fast network, are not going to be able to deliver the best experience to our customers.

So that's why I like our positioning so much, that we will have HSPA Plus delivered by the end of the year. We're going to have the capability to begin the backhaul upgrades and to provide these services on a geographic basis as soon as the backhaul is complete. And when you get one of these devices with 1 GHz processor or maybe even dual processors, they are going to absolutely hum. They're just going to be awesome. So, I think those are the trends that I see in the marketplace, and we're very excited because I think it plays to our strengths.

RICK LINDNER: Tim, let me offer -- this is Rick. Let me offer just a couple of additional comments on both of those questions.

One, on handsets and devices, Ralph's exactly right. We're seeing an unprecedented level of innovation and it's -- it is just fun in this business, frankly, to see the innovation, the new devices, the new features that are coming out literally every quarter.

But I want to make sure -- while it's fun to talk about all the different devices and handsets, I want to make sure that we don't lose sight of the real story here from our perspective. And the real story here is, this quarter with as large of a postpaid base as we have, well over 80% of the devices we sold into that postpaid base, both upgrades and new gross adds, were integrated devices. That's astounding.

And it's huge compared to even where we were just a year ago. And I think what that speaks to is the combination of the features in these devices, along with the network speeds that Ralph talked about, has really facilitated a value proposition for customers and has turned the mobile phone into a mobile computing device. And increasingly, customers want to be able to access applications, access the Internet, and receive content via their mobile devices. That is really the real story here.

And it leads us into a mobile broadband business for us that's approaching a $20 billion a year business and a business that's growing at 25% to 30%. That's -- underlying it, that's the real story and, I think, the opportunity for us and why we're excited about this space. And why, frankly, we continue to push integrated devices and continue to push data services into our postpaid base.

The other thing that I want to comment on, it really relates to the overall customer experience in our network as we migrate up, first as we migrated up to HSPA 7.2, and then to HSPA Plus, and then to LTE. I think we've got the opportunity over the next few years to offer a superior experience on these devices because to facilitate the kinds of data services and applications and devices that we're going to have -- that everyone's going to have on the network and that customers want, it's going to require mobile broadband speed.

And as a result, you see all the carriers rolling out 4G networks, whether they be LTE or whether they be WiMAX or other technologies. But everyone is working to increase speeds.

The advantage that we'll have is not just in terms of the speeds available on these new 4G networks, but initially these 4G networks are going to cover a relatively small piece of geography. And in our network, as customers move off of that geography -- they are going to have a great experience in LTE; as they move off of that geography, they're going to have a very, very good experience in HSPA Plus across our network, and that will be an advantage versus other carriers where you will see a significant decrease in speeds when you're out of their 4G footprint.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: John, we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Just two quick questions. One is, you mentioned that on the enterprise side, 70% of the customers have converted already to IP. Can you help us think about, if you look at the global enterprise revenue change, whether you're looking at year over year or sequentially, how much of that can be attributed to this conversion process of moving to lower-cost IP services versus how to think about the business organically in terms of the demand for traffic in a more normal pricing environment once you get through the conversion?

The second part of the question was more of a strategic question. As wireless continues to evolve and starts to take share of the broadband market more substantially, in your view does it still make sense for wireless and wireline to be a part of the same company or are there advantages over time in thinking about what wireless can do to compete more effectively against what is the traditional wireline business?

RICK LINDNER: Those are great questions, Mike. Let me take a shot at those and invite Ralph to comment as well.

First of all, I think when you look at our business sales and revenues and look at the various business revenue streams there, again that's a business going through a transition. We've actually crossed the line this quarter where traditional voice revenues as part of our business revenues are down below 40% of business revenues.

Increasingly, that's -- it's becoming a business driven by data, by IP-based services, managed services, and increasingly as we go forward, as companies move more of their applications and their content into the cloud, hosting cloud computing becomes more important, as well as facilitating applications through mobile devices. And I think we're well positioned in all areas of the business where there are growth opportunities.

And that's why you see strategic business service revenues continuing to grow quarter after quarter at mid-teens rates. It's why you've seen, in the last several quarters, IP-based data revenues increasing on the business side, getting into the upper single-digit rates of growth.

We're also seeing impacts in other areas. Still a lot of demand for bandwidth and transport. Now, the revenue streams there have been flatter more recently, but that's more a function of companies increasing their bandwidth but at the same time grooming their networks and moving to higher speed services. And so, we're seeing both on a retail and a wholesale environment significant demand for ethernet in backhaul.

Again, all those areas, we're positioned very well. The one area that it has been a drag in the business somewhat has been voice volumes, and I think we will see some improvements there, but it will require some improvement in the economy, in employment, and -- as well as in, on the small end of the business, in new business formations.

As we see that and as the business becomes increasingly driven by IP-based services that are on a good growth trajectory, I think this -- that that's what gives us comfort that the overall revenues on the business side will continue to improve, and as we've talked about, we think longer term this is a GDP, GDP-plus type of growth sector for us.

You ask a very good question about the importance of -- or the need or desire to have both wireless and wireline assets, given this environment. And I guess what I would say, Michael, is I think more than ever before, we think there are advantages and strengths in having a combination of wireless and wireline assets, because that's what is required to provide the kinds of service experience that customers want.

And essentially, whether you're a business customer or a consumer customer, you want the convenience of mobility and mobile access to networks and to data applications and content, and you want that over a variety of devices. That's why you see the proliferation of devices on the network from all of the connected devices that Ralph's team is selling to -- to notebook computers, to tablet computing. That is the way people want to access the network.

But in order to provide the bandwidth and to provide the capacity and to provide the kind of service experience you want, you've got to drive that traffic as quickly as possible into a wired infrastructure, which improves service quality and provides significantly more bandwidth. That's why -- for example, in our case, that's why we believe having the WiFi infrastructure in hotspots that we have across the country and around the world are so important.

So, in our view, we believe to provide the kinds of services that consumers and businesses demand in the future, having both wireless and wireline capabilities and having an integrated carrier model is the best way to provide those services.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, of course I would agree with that. The other thing I would throw your way is, based on all the modeling that we have done, there's not enough spectrum to be able to take everything that you're sending over wired facilities and put them over wireless, especially when it comes to video.

So in the end, you're always going to need a combination of both. And our view is the more integrated you are, the better you're going to be in terms of being able to give the customers what they want in the future.

RICK LINDNER: Folks, just -- I'd like to offer a couple of comments in closing. First of all, I want to thank you for taking part in the call today.

And again, I'd just like to highlight a couple of key points. First, as we've talked about, we continue to see the benefits of our mobile broadband strategy with just an incredible wireless quarter. Record sales and activations of integrated devices, double-digit revenue growth, our seventh consecutive quarter of postpaid ARPU growth, and all of that adds up to excellent momentum in our wireless business.

And the second point that I'd like to make is that we continue to post very good, very solid financial results. Consolidated revenue growth and the revenue growth trend is improving. Wireline margins have improved, and even with pressures from record wireless sales, we grew earnings, and cash flow continues to be strong. When you look at our year-to-date financial results, I think you see the foundation for an outstanding year, and our job now is to execute and finish the year strong.

Again, I want to thank you for being on the call today, and as always, thank you for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thank you, John. Thanks, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T executive teleconference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | imobsoft : Mobile Applications Software | ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | ivirtusw : Virtualization Software | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | i3303 : Networking | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c151 : Earnings | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | lith : Lithuania | baltst : Baltic States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101104e6al001h0
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,691 words
   PD
21 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AT&T first quarterly earnings release 2010 conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T, Brooks McCorcle. Please go ahead.

   TD
BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Rich. Good morning everyone. Welcome to the AT&T's first-quarter conference call. As Rich said, this is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T. And on behalf of everyone at our Company we appreciate your interest, and it is really great to have you with us this morning.

Joining me on the call today is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Rick will provide an update with a perspective on the quarter and then we will take your questions. Let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is ww.att.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide two. And that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially.

A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information, or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website at www.att.com/investor.relations.

Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me quickly call your attention to slide three, which provides a consolidated financial summary. Before a previously disclosed non-cash charge relating to the taxability of retiree healthcare subsidies, first-quarter EPS was $0.59, which was up 11.3%.

First-quarter consolidated revenues grew year-over-year to $30.6 billion. That was supported by a double-digit increase in wireless service revenues, continued mid-teens growth in strategic business products, and further AT&T U-verse gains.

Consolidated margins improved both sequentially and year-over-year. We had substantial margin expansion in wireless, and wireline operating income margins were stable sequentially, reflecting solid execution in terms of our cost initiatives.

Finally, although down slightly from the first quarter a year ago, cash flow continues to be strong, with cash from operating activities totaling $7.3 billion, and free cash flow at $3.9 billion for the quarter.

With that quick overview, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Lindner.

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks, and good morning everyone. It is good to have you with us this morning. Before we cover detailed results, as we typically do, I would like to start with a few comments on the quarter overall. The highlights are on slide four.

First of all, I am pleased to be able to say that we had a terrific start to the year. Earnings per share before the non-cash charge was up double digits. Consolidated revenues were up. Margins expanded; cash flow was strong, And I think all of these reflect good execution on the plans that we outlined for you in January.

Our wireless business continues to perform at a high level. We had 1.9 million net adds, with continued strength in smartphones and connected devices. Wireless service revenues were up double digits. Churn improved to best-ever levels. Postpaid ARPU grew again for the fifth consecutive quarter.

And most important, even with continued strong iPhone activations, we delivered substantial service wireless margin expansion to 44.5%.

The other area where we gained traction is in wireline consumer. In fact, we achieved our first sequential improvement in consumer revenues in several years.

Our U-verse platform continues to scale. We had a nice rebound in broadband net adds. As a result, consumer IP revenues, that is U-verse and broadband combined, were up better than 32%.

In our business markets we have begun to see some early signs of improvement in the economy. Revenue and volume trends have begun to stabilize, and sales of our most advanced services continue to be strong. Across the operations we also continued to execute well on the cost side, and that has helped us deliver strong margins and cash flow. So on a number of fronts a positive quarter and a good start to the year.

Regarding the broader economic environment, in January we said that as we looked at 2010 we modeled a continuing, but generally slow recovery. And While the economy has begun to show some encouraging signs, we continue to operate that -- with that as a general framework. So that means we are running the business in a way that allows us to deliver solid results that are not dependent on a quick economic upturn. And because we focused on cost improvement in margins, we believe we are well positioned with good leverage when we do start to see meaningful improvement in the macro economy.

So with that as background, let's get into the detailed results starting with consolidated revenues on slide five. Consolidated revenue trends have stabilized over the past few quarters. And as Brooks has mentioned, in the first quarter they totaled $30.6 billion, up $78 million versus first quarter a year ago.

The key drivers are, first, wireless results that continue to be very strong. Second, AT&T U-verse growth has driven steady improvement in our consumer trends. And third, business revenue comparisons are improving and we are seeing signs that economic impacts may be moderating.

Our overall revenue mix continues to undergo a substantial transformation, increasingly weighted to wireless, to wireline data, and managed services. In the first quarter 69% of revenues came from these categories, and that was up 900 basis points over the past two years. Taken together in the first quarter these revenues grew 7%.

This shift in mix reflects broader industry and technology changes, but also the fact that we have moved aggressively to position our business out front in key areas, like mobile broadband, as well as advanced business products and IP-based services.

So let's move to wireless. Our wireless results start on slide six. I am pleased to say that our mobility business delivered another strong quarter. Wireless service revenues were up 10.3% to $12.8 billion. That was driven by continued strong subscriber gains with 1.9 million net adds, our best ever first-quarter total. It was led by an increase in connected device subscribers of more than 1 million, which we have broken out for you starting this quarter -- things like eReaders, alarm monitoring and a host of other emerging products.

As you know, some time ago we created an organization devoted to growth in the emerging device space, and as you see in our results, those efforts are starting to pay off. While ARPUs in connected devices are typically low, the churn and margin characteristics are quite attractive. And it is an important growth area. We believe the range of devices that will be connected wirelessly in the future will be both broad and deep.

Postpaid net adds for the quarter totaled 512,000, and with continued migration of the base to integrated devices. Our churn levels also continued their steady trend of improvement. Total churn was down 26 basis points year-over-year to 1.3%, and postpaid churn improved to 1.07%. Both of those are at best-ever levels for us.

Customers are choosing AT&T, and equally, if not more important, more customers are choosing to stay with AT&T than ever before. Beyond subscriber gains the other major driver of wireless revenue growth is ARPU expansion. We lead the industry in postpaid ARPU, which was up again this quarter by 3.9%. This was our fifth consecutive quarter with year-over-year growth in postpaid ARPU.

The growth in postpaid ARPU has been powered by mobile data. The details are on slide seven. In the first quarter postpaid data ARPU increased nearly 22%. Wireless data revenues were up $947 million over the last year to now more than $4 billion for the quarter. Mobile data is a $16 billion plus annualized revenue stream for us, a run rate that has doubled in just over two years.

To drive this kind of growth you need three things. First, a great data network. We carry about half of all the wireless data traffic in the United States today. And as we will discuss in a minute, data throughputs have stepped up significantly with our HSPA platform.

Second, you need a broad data capable device lineup. We have that today, and you should expect to see us continue rolling out terrific devices as we go through this year. We have twice the number of smart phones on our network as any of our competitors.

Third, you need rich access to applications, again, an area where we lead. In the first quarter data adoption was strong. We added 3.3 million 3G postpaid integrated devices to our network to reach 26.8 million in service. This included 2.7 million iPhone activations, more than one-third of them new to AT&T.

Customers with data plans grew nicely as well, up nearly 2 million in the quarter, and 8 million over the past year. And in both of these areas we still have a lot of running room. Only half of our postpaid subscribers have integrated devices, and our in-flow continues to expand, running above 70%.

Our integrated device customers are high-quality customers. ARPU for integrated devices is 1.7 times versus other devices. Roughly 60% of our integrated devices are on family plans, and another one-third are on business related plans. So they are very sticky, with churn levels well below our averages.

Data usage trends also continued to expand. In the first quarter text messages were up 52% to more than 140 billion, and multimedia messages more than doubled over the past year. Mobile broadband continues to be the industry's number one growth driver, and it is an area where we are very well positioned.

Now let me give you a quick progress report on our major wireless network initiatives; the details are on slide eight. In our last earnings call in January John Stankey, our President and CEO for Operations, shared with you our network plan and provided a look at key performance metrics over the previous 90 days. We have continued to make good progress through the first quarter, the first steps in an aggressive program for the year -- adding an additional radio network carrier, adding cell towers, building and upgrading high-capacity antenna systems, and building our fiber backhaul.

All in, capital spending to support wireless was up over 30% year-over-year. As we have explained, implementing these network enhancements does cause some variations in performance at particular locations day to day. So the lines on some of the cards are not smooth, but the trends are clear.

First, with HSPA 7.2 software turned up nationwide in January, and with our backhaul deployment taking shape, we are seeing a significant step up in data speeds. Companywide our 3G average data download speeds are up 25% versus a year ago based on internal data, and up 14% in just the past 90 days. In areas where we have completed the backhaul in support of HSPA 7.2 internal data is setting speed improvements in the 32% to 47% range. And that is very encouraging.

On the voice side we continue to have very high levels of call retainability nationwide based on independent tests. We are seeing improvement in voice metrics in New York, where we have both very high data volumes and a high concentration of data users.

Over the past 90 days the internal data shows that 3G dropped call performance has improved in Manhattan and in the larger metro area. We have added third carriers from midtown and downtown, supporting increased capacity in these high traffic areas.

Our 3G Voice Composite Quality Index, an internal metric which measures both connectivity and retainability, moved up 10% during the quarter in the New York metro area overall, and in Manhattan that index moved up 47% quarter over quarter. In terms of download speeds, in Manhattan we are seeing average speeds that are close to our nationwide average.

Looking ahead we continue to execute our network plan, adding additional third carriers, adding fiber backhaul and Ethernet to cell sites in support of HSPA 7.2, as well as our migration to LTE, deploying in-building and venue solutions where appropriate. Plus we are doing more with Wi-Fi. In fact, our Wi-Fi customer connections were up more than five times year-over-year.

With our GSM technology foundation a seamless path through HSPA to LTE, we've got a terrific technology path going forward for customers, and we believe the best path forward to capture the next wave of wireless growth.

Now in addition to subscriber and topline growth and the progress we are seeing on our network initiatives, wireless margins also expanded this quarter. Slide nine provides an overview. Our first-quarter wireless service EBITDA margin was 44.5%. That is up 380 basis points sequentially and up 200 basis points from the year-earlier quarter. This reflects the strong revenue growth, the high quality of our subscriber base, reduced churn, as well as cost improvements that we made in the network and support functions for wireless.

As we announced a couple of weeks ago, starting with this quarter we've changed how we account for certain intercompany transactions as part of our effort to manage the business from an external customer perspective. This did have an impact on segment margins, increasing wireless EBITDA margins by 160 to 190 basis points in most periods. But it did not change the margin trends. And the comparisons on this slide, as well as the comparisons we provided to you as part of our earlier disclosure, are all restated for this change.

Longer-term with continued growth in service revenues and ongoing cost initiatives, there is additional opportunity to continue to expand wireless margins.

Now I would like to turn and cover our wireline results, starting with consumer trends, which are on slide 10. Again, this quarter we are seeing clear evidence that U-verse is driving a steady transformation of our consumer business. And it is helping us deliver our first sequential growth in wireline consumer revenues in quite some time.

Our U-verse customer base continues to scale with 231,000 U-verse TV adds in the quarter to 2.3 million, and roughly 1 million over the past year. Broadband and U-verse Voice over IP attach rates remain very high. More than three-quarters of U-verse subscribers have a triple- or quad-play bundle with us. And U-verse revenues continue to grow with more than a $3 billion annualized run rate. And based on current trends we should exit the year with annualized U-verse revenues exceeding $4 billion.

Today we offer a 120 HD channels, more than our cable competitors in all markets where we compete. And we continue to innovate, innovate with enhancements like our recently announced 24 megabit downstream Internet service in every U-verse market. And U-verse mobile remote access, which lets customers use their wireless handset to navigate the program guide and manage DVR recordings.

In the first quarter wireline IP revenues, that is U-verse services plus non-U-verse broadband, grew better than 32%. These products now represent 37% of total consumer wireline revenues, up 960 basis points over the past year. As a result, we delivered our ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in revenues per household, and our fourth consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year consumer revenue comparisons.

We are now more than three-quarters of the way through our U-verse build, and we are on track with our plan to reach 30 million living units. As U-verse scales we are starting to see meaningful, directional changes in our overall consumer business.

Next let me provide a quick update on wireline business trends, which are on slide 11. In the first quarter we saw continued improvement in business revenue trends. And that reflects good sales performance and some early signs of stabilization in business markets overall.

Key economic metrics, like industrial production and net business formations, have begun to improve. We also see early signs of improvement in our own metrics. We had our first sequential growth in enterprise LD revenues in six quarters.

We are seeing lower Company-managed wireless disconnects and better business access line trends. We posted our best-ever year-over-year business revenue comparisons in four quarters. And enterprise service revenues, taking out equipment, were nearly flat sequentially. All of these trends are encouraging.

That said, I would caution that it is still early in terms of talking about a recovery in business revenues, and too soon to gauge the timing and the shape of the improvement to come. We continue, however, to drive solid growth in our most advanced business products. Revenues from strategic business products, like Ethernet, virtual private networks, application services, were up nearly 15%. Plus we continued to do well selling wireless in the business space.

Looking ahead it is clear that the ability to build unified solutions for business customers that include wireless, mobile broadband in particular, will increasingly be a key differentiator for customers across all business categories. I think that is a big positive for AT&T.

Our priorities in the business space have not changed. We continue to invest to expand our network reach and to strengthen our product portfolio. We have been disciplined on cost to maintain stable business margins, and both of these things will provide leverage as the economy recovers.

Now I would like to take a look at margins and cash flow for the quarter. And the margin comparisons are on slide 12. We told you in January that we expected to deliver stable to improved consolidated margins this year, with further wireless margin expansion and a disciplined focus on cost initiatives across the business.

In the first quarter I think it is fair to say we delivered what we said we would. Our consolidated operating income margin was 19.6%. That is up 80 basis points versus first quarter last year, and a 390 basis point improvement sequentially. This reflects solid performance across the Company.

Wireline operating expenses were down 2.8%, with major cost initiatives on track, including continuing consolidation of operations as we make changes to improve processes.

In wireless we have made good progress in areas such as billing, customer care, and network operations. Across the business bad debt expense continues to trend favorably, and total force was down by more than 6,000 in the quarter.

Companywide we have a commitment to operate as One AT&T, which first means delivering a single, seamless experience to customers for all of our wireless and wireline products. And as we consolidate and integrate operations to do that, we also have continuing opportunities for cost efficiencies.

Along with solid margins, we also have continued to deliver strong free cash flow. Our cash summary is on slide 13. In the first quarter cash from operations totaled $7.3 billion. Capital expenditures were $3.3 billion, including a 34% year-over-year increase in wireless capital. As we outlined for you in January, we continue to expect full-year capital investment in the $18 billion to $19 billion range. Free cash flow before dividends was $3.9 billion, and dividend payments totaled $2.5 billion.

In terms of other uses of cash our debt is down almost $5 billion over the past 12 months. And we have the flexibility to retire additional debt as it comes due, while continuing to invest in the business and returning substantial value to shareholders through dividends.

I would like to close with a quick recap on slide 14. When you look at our business and when you look at the opportunities ahead, we believe there are a number of things that set AT&T apart in this industry. First, we have a strong wireless business that is setting the pace in terms of ARPU growth, revenue growth and margin expansion. Wireless service revenues were up double digits. Churn reached best-ever levels. And we delivered a substantial step up in margins with further margin expansion opportunity ahead.

Most important, we are well positioned to capture the next wave of wireless growth. We lead in integrated devices. We have established ourselves as the leader in connected devices, a significant growth area for us. We have a terrific opportunity as we continue rolling out the backhaul to deliver significant speed increases for our wireless customers. We are seeing excellent throughputs already. And we are aggressively investing for the next generation of growth in mobile broadband.

Our U-verse platform is gaining scale and is positively impacting our consumer trends. We expect continued solid U-verse growth throughout this year. We have the industry's premier business capabilities. And we are hopeful that we are seeing the early signs of stabilization in business markets.

We have substantial opportunities ahead on the cost side of our business with continuing cost improvement opportunities that will both support margins and drive strong cash flow. And we have a proud history of returning substantial value and cash to our shareowners.

So we are off to a great start this year, with excellent first-quarter financial results. And we continue to have a positive long-term outlook for the business.

With that, Brooks, that concludes our prepared remarks. I think we are ready for some Q&A.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Great. Rich, I think we can open up the queue.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a quick question on the wireless margins. Obviously it is a really strong quarter, and given the guidance was in the low 40s, and you touched on it a little bit today saying, maybe it seemed to be more in the medium term there could be some upside to this.

But I guess the question is, is this the high watermark for the year as it relates to wireless margins, or how do you expect the rest of the year to trend, especially with a potential iPhone refresh hitting in midyear as it has the last few years?

RICK LINDNER: We had not changed our overall guidance for wireless margins, although the accounting change that we talked about will drive an increase in those margins as we report the wireless segment by somewhere around 160 to 180 basis points or so. So our outlook for the business hasn't changed, that 160 to 180 basis points will ride on top of that.

But as we look at it, our expectation is for this year still to be in the lower -- I would characterize it as lower 40% range. In other words, it will be higher with the accounting change, but probably still in the same general vicinity that we guided toward.

And the same thing going forward. We see improvement beyond 2010 certainly up into the mid-40s. And again, we will be more towards the upper end of that range, with the accounting change we talked about.

Going forward, first quarter the last couple of years, at least, has been a little higher in wireless margins. Just because you tend to have -- following the holiday season you tend to have a little bit lower level of gross adds and upgrades in the postpaid space.

As we go forward in the rest of this year we will have some new product launches that we are very excited about. We'll have some product refreshes that we are excited about. And those will most likely drive some higher upgrades, and hopefully drive some higher gross add activity as well. So that may impact margins a bit.

But we are still, in margins both in wireless and wireline, we are still executing as we talked about a lot of plans as we integrate our operations under the One AT&T initiatives. And so we will see benefits from that in both of our segments as we go forward in the year.

You saw some of that in the first quarter, as we mentioned, for us both announced reductions that we had made, as well as just normal attrition came down about 6,000.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks for the call.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions. Maybe first just on the balance sheet. Rick, you are closing in on the 1.5 times leverage targets. What are your thoughts from here around a buyback, timing and potential level?

Then second question just related to the wireless business. As we think about postpaid versus prepaid, I think as we look at the net industry forecasts for this quarter, year results included, there is a certain expectation that we are going to show a significant shift towards prepaid in terms of where the growth is coming from. I am wondering, along those lines are you comfortable with your positioning right now in prepaid, or should we expect you to engage to a greater extent in this segment? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Good questions. I think, first of all on the balance sheet side our view hasn't changed at all. We are making good progress in bringing leverage back down into our target levels, and we are getting close. However, we are also helpful that we are getting close to approval for the acquisition of the former Alltel properties from Verizon that has been pending for some time regulatory approval. So that will push the metrics back up a little bit.

But all that being said, the plan is still the same. We want to drive the credit metrics back within our target ranges, And then we will take a look at where we are and the opportunities and determine what we want to do from a buyback perspective. So nothing really changed there.

In terms of wireless, what you're seeing, I think, in this quarter, and it is consistent with -- to a degree I think what people were expecting as we go into this year, is some shifting in the wireless business in terms of where revenue growth is coming from.

Certainly our expectations for this year is that postpaid customer growth, postpaid net adds, will come down from prior levels. But we are seeing a continued shift in revenue growth being driven by wireless data revenues, by penetration of integrated devices. And we are seeing just the tip of the iceberg, I think, with the opportunity on connected devices.

So as result what you see in this quarter is, even with postpaid net adds being down, we are delivering a wireless service revenue growth that is above 10% for all the reasons that I mentioned.

On top of it in the prepaid part of the business we have over the last year been making some changes and tweaks to our prepaid offerings. We have also made some changes and tweaks to offerings within our reseller category that are primarily prepaid in nature.

As a result, what you saw this quarter is continued growth in the reseller category, but also small, but positive growth in prepaid. And when you look at the prepaid trend over the past several quarters churn has come down dramatically, and the net add tend there has improved.

So we will continue to tweak those offers in the marketplace, and continue to work to drive some growth in those categories. A couple of things that we won't do, is we won't chase growth that we feel is not profitable. We won't do things that could bring a significant impact or a negative impact to our postpay business. And that is still to a large degree where our focus is.

There is still a lot of opportunity there. You know, we have reached a point we are 50% penetrated with integrated devices in the postpaid base. But when you look back -- step back and you look at the sales for the quarter -- and by sales I mean looking at what customers are buying, both in gross adds and in upgrades -- we are at or above 75% in terms of the sales activity there in integrated devices. So still a lot of opportunity there.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: If we could turn over to the fixed side for a minute. You posted some good numbers on the DSL side, relative to expectations a turnaround from some of the recent trends we have seen. Can you just talk a little bit about was there anything specific that you were doing there?

And then talk more about the economics. What is going on with broadband ARPUs generally, and profitability on the U-verse side as this reaches scale? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: First of all, in broadband in total we had a nice rebound this quarter. And that is -- that reflects certainly continued growth in the U-verse platform. But it also -- and it reflects some first-quarter seasonality that if you look at the last several years that you see.

But what it also reflects is the fact that across our broadband product set churn rates are down. And we did have better performance in DSL. And I think to a large agree that reflects the fact that we are offering a very good set of options for customers these days across our footprint.

So customers, no matter where they are, they have the option with broadband to bundle a video product, either U-verse or DirecTV. They've got the option to bundle a voice product. And on top of that give them the ability to bundle with broadband either wired or wireless voice, or both.

We are seeing good traction in voice over IP in our U-verse footprint. We are also increasing speeds in broadband. So this quarter, for example, we implemented across our U-verse footprint 24 megabit download speed in our broadband product. Outside of the U-verse footprint in many areas we are offering DSL speeds that are at the 6 and 10 megabit levels.

So when you put all of those together, I think we have just got a good overall product set that appeals to a broad range of consumer customers out there. Beyond that, I would say there weren't anything -- there wasn't anything specific in terms of what we did in broadband this quarter.

SIMON FLANNERY: And on the ARPU and profitability?

RICK LINDNER: Oh, on ARPU and profitability, we are seeing increases in broadband ARPU, in consumer, particularly. And that simply reflects the fact that customers are continuing to migrate up in speed. So we are currently at about 59%, I believe, of our consumer base that are buying 3 megabit speeds and above from us. And we expect that to continue. We expect as applications and customer demand and needs continues to increase that we will see customers migrating up in speeds. So there is ARPU opportunity there. And as you would expect, particularly in that kind of product, as you drive higher speed, higher ARPU you are also improving profitability.

On the U-verse side of things, one of the things I have started looking at in the last quarter or two is when you look at our U-verse customers in total and the products that they are buying, and when you step back and you look at the recurring margins in those customers, the recurring revenues and expenses, we are driving profitability levels at an EBITDA basis that really is equal to or better than our overall wireline margin levels.

And obviously what creates in U-verse some dilution to margin and earnings then is the acquisition and installation costs associated with those customers. But the plan going forward is we are not going to slow down with U-verse. We are going to continue to try to drive good growth in U-verse -- in the U-verse platform in video, but also in broadband and voice over IP.

We will continue to do that throughout this year. But over time as those installation costs just naturally become a smaller piece of the overall U-verse revenue stream, we will start to see then the lift and improvement in profitability there.

But I have been encouraged by the fact that when I look at those recurring revenues and margins that they are at a reasonable level today. And when you look at the trend that they have been growing pretty nicely over the last few quarters.

SIMON FLANNERY: That's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Actually two follow-on questions. First, to follow up to Jason's question on the balance sheet, how do you think about dividend increases versus share purchases, given the tax change that sounds very likely this year?

Then on the cost side you gave great detail on the U-verse. Should we expect continued wireline margin improvement from this point, both as revenue trends begin to improve and you start to hit that inflection point on the U-verse?

Than a last question of my own, I guess. Can you talk a little bit about your thoughts on the 3G footprint, what sort of percent of POPs do you feel like you want to cover with full 3G versus EDGE?

RICK LINDNER: Chris, good question. Let me address the dividend question first. As you know, we contemplate dividend increases as we get towards the end of the year. And so as part of that we certainly look at projections for the business in terms of cash flows supporting that dividend, and we consider changes in the environment like tax law changes. But, frankly, we will wait until we get closer to that timeframe, and see how everything in the environment shakes out before we make any determinations there.

Putting the -- any tax issues aside though, what I would tell you is that we do believe that a strong and a growing dividend is a key element of how we provide returns to shareowners. So in terms of the use of cash that has traditionally been a much higher priority for us. And share repurchase has been a tool and a vehicle we have used in cases where we have gone through periods where we have excess cash and we are at comfortable levels in terms of our balance sheet leverage. So it was a way to adjust and modify our capital structure.

But having said that, as we get through the rest of this year, and as we see how the environment changes and how it might impact our shareowner base, we will consider all of those options.

Wireline margins is a balancing act right now, in all honesty. Because we have products that are legacy products, like wireline voice, that are declining. But they are very mature products with not a lot of burden from installation or acquisition costs, so they have high margins.

The products that are the future of the business, our growth products, generally in the area of IP-based service and managed services, there are more acquisition costs certainly associated with some of them, like U-verse. But over time as those products scale they will grow in margin.

So we are going through this transition, and to balance it through this transition, that is why we have been very proactive and very aggressive on the cost side of our business, and very proactive in trying to consolidate our operations that underlie and support both wireless and wireline, this set of One AT&T that we talk about. And we have been very proactive in taking costs out of the business there, and very proactive in taking costs out of the business in areas where we are supporting services that are declining. And we will continue to do that.

I do believe we've got an opportunity to keep margins by a combination of all of those things -- keep margins in wireline at a fairly stable levels as we go forward in the following quarters in the wireline business. And longer-term -- and I do think of this as longer-term -- I think if we got some lift in revenues and lift from the economy there is some upside to that.

I am sorry. I forgot the last question.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: 3G footprint.

RICK LINDNER: Oh, the 3G footprint is -- we are continuing to expand that footprint, and we will have 3G coverage in virtually all areas that we serve. At the same time as we are moving into expanding the 3G capability through HSPA 7.2 and then beginning to trial and plan and move towards LTE.

It will follow the normal and network progression we have had with upgrades to the data network. I don't have a specific POP number for you at this point.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, Macquarie.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Thanks for coming back to me. They have clearly put too much power in my hands with this new Cisco IP phone.

RICK LINDNER: If you figure out how to use it, let me know and you can give me some help.

PHIL CUSICK: Honest to God, I can't figure it out. I will get a trainer for you. So the (technical difficulty). I kind of dropped. I'm sorry.

RICK LINDNER: You pressed the wrong button.

OPERATOR: We will come back to Mr. Cusick if he requeues. We will go to the line of David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: That was awesome.

RICK LINDNER: Don't touch any buttons, David, whatever you do.

DAVID BARDEN: I have a Cisco IP phone too. I'm not even going anywhere near it. Two questions, if I could, guys. Thanks for taking the question.

First, Rick, on CapEx, last quarter you predicated the guidance for an increase in spending on a regulatory and investment climate that was supportive of investment. It looks like CapEx this year in the first quarter was flat to slightly down. Could you talk a little bit about your perspectives now on whether the climate is supportive of making those investments and when you think they will come?

The second question was just on the wireline business generally. Sequentially revenues were down about $180 million. At the EBITDA level it was also down about $180 million. So we saw almost all the revenue decline hit the margin line. And I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about more how we should think about that cost dynamic versus revenue, as we start to see the economy come back, as you seem to be suggesting? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. First of all, on the CapEx front, overall capital expenditures, as you said, were about flat with first quarter last year. We were up in wireless, down a bit in wireline, and the reductions there had more to do with demand level for services -- services like high-capacity circuits and so forth.

So we also had in the first quarter, I would tell you, a couple of areas where we had some supply chain and vendor issues that impacted some network components. Not huge numbers, but impacted the total numbers a little bit. First quarter is always a little lower for us because of certainly a portion of -- a large portion of our cap spend are portfolio capital projects. New portfolio capital projects, which get approved and get into the pipeline late in the prior year always take a bit of time to ramp up. So you've got all of those factors.

At this point our outlook for the year in terms of CapEx is the same as we gave you in January, kind of $18 billion to $19 billion range. A little rebalance in the portfolio with a couple of billion dollars more spend supporting the wireless business, offset by some reductions in spending wireline. No change there.

On the regulatory front I think we continue to have good, I think, positive, productive dialogue with regulators. They obviously have laid out some objectives and plans that they will move forward on, and it will create a number of different notices and proposed rulemakings and activities on the regulatory front. We will continue to work on -- with them on all of those.

I do believe at the end of the day -- I do believe they understand and agree that in order to achieve their objectives it is going to require an environment that supports capital investment and the ability for carriers to earn a return on that investment. So I think in that respect we are hopeful.

On the wireline margin front I wouldn't get too concerned overall, I guess, with a quarter-to-quarter changes in wireline margins, even in the range of magnitude you spoke of, because there is always some quarter-to-quarter seasonality. And frankly as large as that business is, there are just some issues and adjustments that occur from quarter to quarter that impact those comparisons.

But as I said earlier, I think overall in the levels that we operated in around the first quarter, I think we will be able to maintain wireline margins throughout the year in a fairly stable way in those ranges.

Then longer-term, again, we will continue to work to increase profitability in the growth services, which will then further solidify, and hopefully give us some upside, with some revenue growth on margins and wireline.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Rick.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Rich, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: So just one follow-up on wireless margins to kick it off. It sounds like -- you know, the discussion, Rick, earlier was a little bit unclear. It sounds like our expectations for margins should be 160 to 180 basis points higher than they were before. So does that mean if you were guiding to sort of low 40s before, somewhere around 42%, for arguments sake, we should now looking at 44? And if we were focused on 45% before for where it should be longer-term, we are now focused on 47%. Are those the right kind of ranges to think about?

Then as we start thinking about earnings trends now that we are a quarter into the year, your guidance was sort of a very wide range of flat to an improvement in earnings. Can you give us a little bit of more context around what your -- what earnings trends could be now that you have seen a little bit of an improvement in the economy and an upswing in enterprise?

Then finally, Randall made a comment a few weeks ago about the industry moving towards tiered data pricing. Can you tell us what you're doing internally to make the move towards tiered data pricing? What has to happen for that to occur?

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jonathan. Yes, first of all on wireless margins, I hope I didn't confuse everybody with comments made earlier. But it is -- very simply our outlook hasn't changed. So whatever you have modeled for wireless margins with this accounting change it is going to be 160, 170, 180 basis points higher than that. And it is just a mechanical change.

So what I was trying to say is that moves the margin levels up, probably still at least in the ranges that I would define as towards the lower 40s in 2010 and the mid-40s beyond that, although 160 to 180 basis points higher than what you had before.

On earnings per share I think our guidance has been stable to improving earnings per share in 2010. Not changing that guidance, clearly the first quarter and being up -- excluding the tax charge, being up 11% gives us confidence that we are going to be able to provide some growth in earnings per share.

At the end of the day that is -- put the guidance aside -- that is our objective. We want to grow the business. We want to grow topline revenues again. We had some topline revenue growth this quarter. That is something that we shouldn't just put aside. We want to continue that trend. And to do that we need strong wireless growth. We need continuing improvement in both our consumer and business wireline categories.

Then we want to grow obviously earnings per share with that. And with some margin expansion can hopefully grow it at faster rates than revenues. So that is what we are setting out to do, and we are off to a good start in this year.

On tiered data pricing, or pricing of any product, I won't get into thoughts and strategies about making potential changes in the future on pricing for any products. But I think your question is a good one. And it is one not just for AT&T, but it is one for the industry overall. Because we are dealing with a few factors that you have to step back and just think about.

One, in wireless you're dealing with some real limitations, both from a technology standpoint, and more importantly from a spectrum standpoint on capacity. Secondly, you're dealing with an overall trend of devices and applications and services moving to a wireless environment. So that is creating a tremendous amount of demand, particularly in wireless data.

The third factor in the environment is you're dealing with a situation where when you look at your customer base, even customers that are using similar devices, there is huge disparity in the amount of data that they use and the amount of capacity they consume. So when you look at all of those things as an industry, I think it will influence how in the future the pricing models develop.

As an industry, what the industry has to do is develop models that are understandable by customers, that customers can understand and live with, and at the same time is fair to customers in terms of the amount of a somewhat limited resource that they are consuming. So that is the whole thing on data pricing. And it will, I suspect, evolve as we go forward in the industry, and it will evolve as applications and devices continue to evolve and data traffic continues to grow.

Before we close, folks, I would like to add just a couple of quick closing comments. In January we outlined a plan for you. I believe what you have seen in our results today is that we delivered what we said we would. And hopefully what you see is that we delivered a little more than we said we would in this first quarter. We had a terrific start to the year.

Wireless growth was excellent, best-ever turn, best-ever postpaid ARPU, best-ever first-quarter net adds, strong data growth. And I think even more importantly, we have a terrific technology path going forward to continue to deliver wireless growth. We are already seeing solid improvements in data download speeds and we've got a lot more to come there.

At the same time, U-verse and our U-verse platform continues to scale. It has improved, and it is changing the revenue trajectory of our wireline consumer business. We have what we believe are the industry's premier business capabilities, which we also continued to expand. And we are seeing early encouraging signs in the business markets.

In total, as I said, something not to be overlooked, our consolidated revenues were up. Our cost initiatives are on track, and as a result, margins expanded and cash flow continues to be strong. So it was a strong start to the year. And our fundamental outlook on the business is positive. Now our job, very simply, is to continue to execute with the same kind of intensity and focus in the quarters ahead.

Before I sign off this morning, I want to take just a minute to recognize someone. Jerrell Ross is a person who has been on our Investor Relations team now for many years. And for investors and analysts out there you may not have met Jerrell, but I guarantee you have seen his work, because he is one that has written all of our press releases, our earnings releases. He has written our earnings release presentations, our investor briefings and our presentations of a financial nature in all of our analyst meetings.

He is a real pro. He has done a great job for us. And the good news is he is moving into -- he is moving up. He is moving to a new position supporting our Chairman. And I just wanted to take a moment to thank Jerrell for all of his efforts and his contributions over the years, and wish him well.

Also, I want to thank all of you for being on the call with us this morning. We appreciate you being with us. And, as always, I want to thank you for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thank you, everyone. Thanks, Rich.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive Teleconference Service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100505e64l000ml
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,651 words
   PD
22 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AT&T third quarter earnings release 2009. For the conference today, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. However, there will be an opportunity for your questions, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

And with that being said, I'll turn the conference over to Brooks McCorcle, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T. Please go ahead.

   TD
BROOKS MCCORCLE, SVP OF IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter conference call. It's great to have you with us this morning. As John mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T.

Joining me on the call this morning are Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and CEO for Mobility and Consumer Markets. In a minute, Rick and Ralph will cover our results, then we'll follow with questions and answers.

Before we get underway, let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available in the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website -- that's www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide three. And that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise. This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website at www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before I turn the call over to Rick, let me call your attention to slide four, which provides a consolidated financial summary. EPS for the quarter was $0.54, very much in line with results for the first half of the year; versus third quarter last year, EPS includes $0.04 of pressure from incremental non-cash pension [OpEx] expenses. In addition, this quarter EPS benefited by $0.03 from the resolution of tax issues, which were offset by $0.02 of pressure due to severance charges.

Consolidated revenues were stable at $30.9 billion. That's up slightly on a sequential basis for the second straight quarter. This reflects strength in wireless, AT&T U-verse, and strategic business services offsetting economic pressures.

Our consolidated operating margin was also relatively stable, reflecting solid cost performance in both wireless and wireline. Free cash flow continues to be strong, $5.5 billion in the quarter and $13.9 billion year-to-date, both up substantially over comparable periods a year ago. This reflects solid cost efforts, lower capital expenditures, and the timing of cash tax payments.

With that quick overview, I'll now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks. Good morning, everyone. Before we get into the operational details, let me take just a brief minute to comment on the business overall and to put some perspective on the quarter.

When we talked with you in January, we outlined our expectations for the year; and like everyone, we knew we faced a tough economy and a challenging business environment. So we laid out for you a clear set of objectives for 2009.

The first was to be aggressive and persistent in improving our cost structure, to preserve margins and to drive cash flow. And second, we committed to continued investment in an expansion in the industry's key growth areas.

Number one among those is wireless data and the explosion of capabilities that are enabled by wireless broadband. Number two is our all-IP U-verse platform for our redefined consumer market built on integrated TV, broadband, and voice. And number three, we wanted to expand and drive growth in our most advanced business capabilities, including products like virtual private networks, ethernet, hosting, IP conferencing, and application services.

I think what you've seen from us throughout 2009, and particularly in our third quarter results, is that we've delivered against these top priorities. The highlights are on slide five.

Now, Ralph is going to give you all the details in just a minute, but I have to say we had just a terrific wireless quarter -- 2 million net adds; our best postpaid 3G integrated device quarter to date; strong ARPU growth; record low churn; and on top of it, margin expansion. We had another solid U-verse quarter, with continued high voice and broadband attach rates. I expect U-verse revenues this year will top $2 billion, with more growth ahead.

Strategic business service revenues were up better than 16% and more than 5% sequentially; and as Brooks noted, free cash flow continues to be strong. So from my perspective, the execution continues to be good across the business and we're delivering what we outlined to you.

Now, with that as an overview, let's turn now to revenue trends, which are on slide 6. Consolidated revenues for the quarter were $30.9 billion -- that's down slightly versus the third quarter a year ago, which was our peak revenue quarter, and up slightly from the second quarter of this year. This reflects continued good growth in wireless and in wireline data. Wireless service revenues were up better than $1.1 billion or 10% with 3.5% sequential growth.

Wireline data revenues were up 5.4%, right in line with our growth rate in this category over the past few quarters, and up 2% sequentially. Wireline IP data revenues were up better than 18%, also consistent with recent trends, and up 4.7% sequentially. These drivers in large part offset continuing pressures in wireline voice.

And as we show in the pie chart on this slide, our revenue mix is increasingly weighted to the growth areas of wireless, data, and managed services. In the second quarter, 68% of our revenues came from these categories, and that's up 1,000 basis points over the past two years.

Consistent with the results in the third quarter and year-to-date, we expect revenues for full-year 2009 will be slightly below 2008 results, due primarily to economic pressures on sales to business customers.

So that's a snapshot of our consolidated revenues. And at this point, let me turn to Ralph de la Vega, who runs our wireless and consumer channels, for an update on those areas. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT & CEO OF MOBILITY AND CONSUMER MARKETS, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Rick, and good morning, everyone. It's great to have this chance to talk with you again. As you've seen, we've delivered strong wireless growth in the third quarter. We continue to have good traction in U-verse, and I'm confident we're doing the right things to continue delivering solid growth in the quarters ahead.

Before I cover the details, there is one key point that is very important to underscore, which is outlined on slide seven -- is that in both our mobility business and in our consumer markets, we're well along executing major transformations.

In mobility, growth is rapidly becoming data-centric. In simple words, our view is that wireless broadband is one of the industry's great growth opportunities, and so we've taken the initiative to deliver on a potential. You see the benefits of this strategy in our wireless results in the third quarter -- 2 million net adds; our best integrated device quarter to date; record low churn; the best ARPU growth we've seen in quite some time, all reflected in robust wireless data growth.

We have a strong and focused commitment to leadership in mobile broadband. That's why we undertook an aggressive integrated device strategy led by the iPhone. It's why we're out in front taking the leadership position with emerging devices like eReaders, netbooks, navigation devices and more. It's why we've invested to be the leader in WiFi coverage, and it's why we're pushing aggressively to increase wireless network speed and capacity with our HSPA 7.2 deployment ahead of 4G.

We're executing a parallel transformation for our wireline consumers, with AT&T U-verse now deployed to more than 20 million living units. We now have more than 1.8 million U-verse TV subscribers in service. More than three-fourths of our U-verse TV subscribers are taking a triple or quad play. And with these dynamics, we're seeing consumer revenue per household growth and better customer retention.

With that overview, let me drill down and cover wireless results, starting with subscribers and revenues on slide 8.

In the third quarter, we accelerated both service revenue growth and subscriber growth. Service revenues were up $1.1 billion or 10% versus the year-ago quarter. That compares with 9.4% growth in the preceding quarter, with an even stronger sequential improvement of 3.5%.

The first driver of revenue growth is subscribers, and this was our strongest third quarter ever for net adds, with a gain in total subs of 2 million. To add some perspective, this was the third quarter out of the past five that our total net adds have been near or above the 2 million mark. And over the past year, we've increased our base by 6.7 million. While we're the first ones to release this quarter, I am confident that's well ahead of our peers.

Third quarter postpaid net adds totaled 1.4 million, up 20% from the second quarter this year and the second-highest total in our history. These results clearly demonstrate the benefits of our integrated device strategy, with a network built for data, cutting edge devices, and access to a rich array of applications. Because of these things, we're winning more customers, and more customers at the high-end who have great ARPU and churn characteristics.

The details on ARPU and churn are on slide 9. In the third quarter, postpaid ARPU was up 3.8% year-over-year, and we've now delivered seven straight quarters of year-over-year growth in postpaid ARPU, and it was up 1.7% sequentially.

We're also seeing outstanding progress in churn. This was a record low for us in terms of total churn. In postpaid, this was our lowest third quarter churn level ever. In some markets, we're seeing churn levels well below 1%.

I love to see churn go down because churn is driven by the fundamentals, and these churn improvements show that our network improvements are working, delivering benefits to customers. When you look at our net adds, our ARPU gains, and our churn improvements, it's clear that our subscriber metrics have never been better and they continue to move in the right direction.

One of the key drivers behind our wireless growth is our integrated device strategy, which has contributed to our strong data growth. The details are on slide 10. We determined early on that getting integrated devices in our customers' hands would pay off with increased usage, and would spur a huge amount of innovation in terms of applications and functionality. That strategy has paid off for us in a big way. Independent data shows twice as many smartphone customers have chosen AT&T over any other competitor.

In the third quarter, we added 4.3 million postpaid 3G integrated devices to our network -- our highest quarterly gain to date. We now have more than 26 million integrated devices in service and that number has doubled over the past year. These numbers include 3.2 million iPhone activations; also our highest quarterly total ever; and nearly 40% of these were for customers who are new to AT&T.

Integrated device subscribers are some of the best you can have -- high ARPU and [low] churn. And we have seen no drop-off in the attractive profile we're getting with the iPhone and with integrated devices in general. Our iPhone customers continue to have a very strong net present value, or NPV, more than twice our average postpaid subscriber, and that has not changed.

And as you all would expect, integrated device subscribers are data-centric, and we're seeing more and more customers sign up for data plans. As a result, our wireless data revenue growth continues to be strong, up nearly $1 billion, or 33.6% versus the third quarter last year.

Our network today handles more integrated devices and more data traffic than any of our competitors. Now we're also taking the lead in emerging wireless devices -- things like eReaders, navigation devices, netbooks, monitoring devices and more.

Slide 11 highlights some of the emerging devices we have in our portfolio. Emerging devices represent the next wave of wireless growth. Some time ago, we set up an organization devoted specifically to developing new products and new ideas in this space, and their work has paid off.

We are well-positioned for success in every emerging device category. We are a leader in eReader connectivity. We recently became the wireless broadband provider far Amazon's Kindle with US and international wireless connectivity. We're the 3G provider for the Sony daily edition of eReader, and the Plastic Logic eReader will be on our network when it is launched in 2010.

We also just announced that the new Barnes & Noble eReader will also use our network. We're also number one in personal navigation devices, with recent agreements to provide network connectivity for new devices from market leaders TomTom and Garmin, plus we offer a host of netbooks, including devices from Dell, Acer, Lenovo, and the new Nokia Booklet 3G, which was launched just a few days ago. You'll continue to see us lead in the emerging device space.

In concert with all we've done with devices and data services, we have undertaken an aggressive program of investment to further enhance our wireless network. These efforts are on schedule and they're delivering clear benefits to customers, and the highlights are on slide 12.

Our 2009 action plan includes the addition of some 2,000 cell sites; roughly 100,000 new circuits to strengthen backhaul. We've doubled our number of fiber serve cell sites this year, and we're beefing up backhaul with ethernet connectivity. We're expanding 3G to 4,400 cell sites. And by the end of this year, our 3G network will reach 372 markets. We're aggressively deploying high quality 850 spectrum in our 3G service areas.

As you may know, 850 megahertz is the original cellular spectrum. It has fantastic propagation characteristics and provides strong in-building coverage. Both our drive test and our customer satisfaction surveys show immediate improvement as the 850 carrier is turned up.

Deployment is better than 90% complete today, with local rollouts now completed in New York, Atlanta, Houston, and Denver. We're working through the process of fine-tuning the network. We will complete 850 deployment in our final city before the end of the year.

All of these allow us to deliver premium service as we handle explosive growth in data volumes, and our metrics are moving in the right direction. 3G dropped calls are down 12%; 3G blocked calls are down 30%; and over the past 10 months, our composite quality index is up 25%. That's an overall view of our 3G network performance that measures call success, as well as our customers' ability to access and remain on our 3G network.

These are great numbers and I am pleased with the impact they're having on our customers as a whole. Each market has its strengths and special issues, though. For those markets that the network is performing well, we're making them even better. For those markets where our performance is not to our standards, we're giving them the resources to improve.

That's a summary of what we're doing and what we're achieving for customers for this year.

Now let me provide a quick update on the next steps in our wireless technology path, HSPA 7.2 and 4G. The highlights are on slide 13.

Our HSPA 7.2 initiative will provide improved capacity and will essentially double the current 3G speeds, and will do it ahead of 4G. We'll be in six markets in the fourth quarter. We expect to be in 25 of the top 30 US markets by the second quarter of next year, and we plan to cover 90% of our 3G pops with HSPA 7.2 and fiber backhaul by the end of 2011.

HSPA 7.2 is available now. We have numerous handsets that are already 7.2 compatible, including the iPhone 3GS. We will launch additional 7.2 capable handsets this year. And in addition, all embedded netbooks currently available in our AT&T retail stores are 7.2 capable.

Most important, HSPA 7.2 provides the best transition to 4G. It will provide the best default speeds as network and customers transition to 4G. And much of the work we do to deploy 7.2 is the same work we do to build out 4G; so there's natural progression and a clean, efficient technology path.

And regarding 4G, we are actively developing and will begin testing LTE in our labs and in market trials next year, and we'll begin deployment in 2011. We'll be using our 700 megahertz and AWS spectrum exclusively for LTE. This spectrum will cover 100% of the top 200 markets and 87% of the US population.

We're being aggressive and smart, and we have a plan that will be great for customers, and we're excited about the road that includes both HSPA 7.2 and LTE.

As Rick mentioned, one of the most gratifying things about our third quarter wireless results was our ability to expand margins. Even with record iPhone activations, our wireless margin summary is shown on slide 14. Our third quarter wireless service EBITDA margin was 38.5%, up significantly versus third quarter of '08, when we had a large iPhone quarter, and up sequentially, even though we had roughly 750,000 more iPhone activations than in the second quarter.

If you want one metric to show that our iPhone strategy is paying off as we expected, this quarter's margin expansion is it. It reflects strong revenue growth, a growing high-quality subscriber base, and operational improvements as we continue to improve efficiencies.

We expect continued margin expansion, and these results do nothing but reinforce the confidence we have in our long-term wireless margin outlook for the mid-40% range.

Let me turn now and talk about our other major initiative, AT&T U-verse. Slide 15 has an update. We had a solid net add quarter with an increase in U-verse TV subscribers of 240,000, bringing our total to 1.8 million, up more than 1 million over the past year.

Across all eligible [end] units, our U-verse TV penetration is now above 12%, and in areas marketed [to for] 24 months or more, overall penetration rates are now more than 20%. U-Verse is great TV. You may have seen that once again we ranked highest in the JD Power survey in the west and south for residential TV customer satisfaction.

And we continue to add features, including multi-view, which lets you watch three additional channels in addition to your primary choice. Those of you who are football fans will absolutely love it. And beyond the great TV experience, U-verse is proving itself as what we envision from the outset -- a powerful IP platform for integrated services.

Our U-verse broadband attach rates continue to run above 90%. The attach rate for U-verse voice, our VoIP service, continues to be above 60%. And more than three-quarters of our U-verse customers were triple or quad play, combining TV, broadband, voice, and wireless.

U-Verse is helping redefine the consumer space, as you see on chart 16. Our total consumer wireline IP revenues in that U-verse services plus non-U-verse broadband grew better than 30% this quarter. U-Verse TV subs are up more than 1 million. U-Verse voice connections are up 631,000 and consumer wireline broadband connections are up 821,000.

These products are driving a significant shift in our wireline consumer revenue mix. A year ago, consumer wireline IP revenues made up 23.2% of our consumer wireline total. In the third quarter, these products represented nearly one-third of consumer wireline revenues, and that's a 920 basis point shift in just four quarters.

Where we have U-verse deployed and marketed, access line decline trends are better; revenues per household are better; and brand perceptions are better. And in terms of overall consumer trends, U-verse does a couple of things.

First, it drives up revenues per household. We posted our seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in consumer revenues per household, up 2.5%. And second, U-verse helps retain customers.

In the third quarter, we had a 27.5% smaller decline in consumer connections than the third quarter a year ago. Consumer service revenues were down 5.5% year-over-year -- that's versus a 6.4% decline the quarter before. It marked the second straight quarter we've seen an improvement in our year-over-year rate per consumer. [That's] U-verse gross, we're starting to see a directional change.

Rick, that covers our wireless and consumer. I'll turn it back to you.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Ralph. Before we close this morning, let me give you an update on business customer trends. Those are on slide 17.

The fundamental trends underlying our business results have not changed. They are consistent with what we saw in the first half of the year. The economy's impacts are fairly straightforward, and are felt across business product lines and customer segments. The largest impacts are volume-related in traditional voice and legacy data.

At the same time, some of the areas where we've seen volume pressure carry traditionally lower margins -- products like equipment sales and international long distance. So, the fixed cost reductions we've been able to achieve have kept overall business margins relatively stable. The improvements we're making in cost structure will provide operating leverage, as the economy rebounds and revenue growth returns.

Total business revenues were down 7.6% year-over-year and down 6.4% excluding equipment sales, but they were down just 1.3% sequentially. We continue to see good growth in our most advanced business products.

For example, IP data revenues were up 6.8%, with stronger sequential growth at 3.1%. Revenues from strategic business products were up better than 16%, with a sequential increase of over 5%. These are capabilities that lead our most advanced solutions -- ethernet, VPNs, hosting, IP conferencing, and application services.

Competitively, we continue to do well in the market; and while we expect the macro environment to stay with us for a period of time, the sequential trends this quarter provide some measure of encouragement. We expect some flattening and, potentially, some improvement in year-over-year comparisons, as we move into the fourth quarter. And longer-term, our view of business continues to be very positive.

Let me close with a quick look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 18.

We said at the beginning of the year, we expected our 2009 consolidated operating income margin, before incremental pension and retiree benefit costs, would be stable with 2008. Year-to-date, our consolidated operating margin is 18%, and it's approaching 20% when you exclude the incremental pension and retiree costs. This reflects solid progress in both wireless and wireline.

Consolidated operating expenses were down 1% year-over-year and wireline operating expenses were down nearly 3%. Our major cost reduction initiatives are on track and ahead of schedule. Total force declined by nearly 4,000 in the quarter and by approximately 18,000 year-to-date.

Looking ahead, we continue to have significant opportunity to improve operations and operate more cost efficiently.

Along with solid margins, we also continued to deliver strong free cash flow, which has allowed us to further improve our balance sheet metrics. Slide 19 provides a cash summary.

Over the first three quarters of 2009, cash from operations totaled $25.5 billion. That's up from $22.8 billion a year ago. Capital expenditures were $11.6 billion. Free cash flow before dividends was $13.9 billion, and that's up $5.9 billion compared with the first nine months of last year. Dividend payments year-to-date totaled $7.3 billion.

We expect to continue this positive free cash flow in the fourth quarter and expect to end the year well above our 2008 levels.

In the third quarter, we reduced debt by $4.1 billion. Over the past five quarters, we've reduced debt, net of cash on hand, by $12 billion. Our balance sheet is sound; debt metrics are solid; and we have the flexibility to retire additional debt as it comes due, while returning substantial value to shareholders through dividends.

Slide 20 now provides a quick recap for the quarter. And again, it was just a terrific wireless quarter -- record net adds; service revenue growth accelerating; a significant step up in ARPUs; churn is down; our wireless metrics in total have never been better.

We expanded wireless margins, and we did that in a record iPhone quarter with approximately 750,000 more activations than the preceding quarter. Wireless network initiatives are on track and they're delivering good results. We're excited about HSPA 7.2 and our path to 4G.

We continue to grow U-verse and the platform is performing very well. U-Verse is driving a redefinition of our consumer market.

In business, despite a difficult environment, growth in IP data and advanced business products continues to be solid, and business margins are stable.

So, to sum it up, again, we're delivering what we said we would. We're managing costs aggressively, which supports our profit margins and earnings. We continue to invest and expand in key growth areas and to position the Company for the future. We're generating strong free cash flow to fund investments and dividends, while maintaining a sound balance sheet.

Brooks, I think we'll stop here. And I think we're ready to take some questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Okay, great. John, we're now ready to open up for questions.

OPERATOR: Certainly. (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: If we could just dig into the margins a little bit, both on the wireless and the wireline side, as you summed up -- up sequential margins, even with the strong iPhone quarter. What's going on there below the subsidies? And I guess, given a consistent level of iPhone ads in the fourth quarter, would that suggest that we should continue to see some improvement there?

And then I think more interesting on the wireline side, there seemed to be a number of moving parts. But with the improved outlook for pension, given the new union contracts, and it seems like the language we heard from you guys is that the business market may be getting better and even the consumer market may have bottomed. What are the implications for margins in the wireline business, net of any pension effect, as those items potentially turn here?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: John, this is Ralph de la Vega. Let me first address the wireless margins and then I'll turn it over to Rick to comment on wireline.

But what we were able to do this quarter is exactly what we had planned. If you compare quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year, what we did is we grew the top line by over $1 billion while we held expenses essentially flat. So if you look at our cost of service quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year, you'll see that cost of service was essentially flat.

And actually selling, general and administrative costs were actually down quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year. So it was just the basics of us making sure that while we grew the top line, we held cost of service constant and then actually saw a little bit of a decline in general, selling and administrative expenses. And nothing fancy but just watching and tightly controlling expenses and improving processes while we grew the top line.

RICK LINDNER: I think to add to that, John, Ralph and his team have done a terrific job managing the various components of the wireless business. So I think they were very smart this quarter when you look at overall -- managing overall acquisition costs, knowing that we were generating a lot of traffic in the stores, and would have higher sales and upgrades as a result, at least partially, to the new iPhone launch. They manage other areas of acquisition costs very well.

And on top of that, we're seeing benefits from some of the consolidation that we're doing in network IT, procurement and other support functions in John Stankey's organization, where we're combining and consolidating what were previously some separate support functions in those areas. And that has helped particularly, when you look year-over-year, at the network and the cost of service components.

On the wireline side, I'm very pleased with what we've been able to do in wireline. As you know, we're going through a significant transformation in the business, both with respect to consumer and business customers, where we're seeing declines in voice and some legacy data services, but we're seeing some substantial growth in broadband and IP-based and managed services.

So part of what we've got to navigate through is, as these legacy services, which have higher margins, as those decline, number one, we've got to take costs out of those. And at the same time, we've got to build margins in the services that are growing.

I think what you're seeing in wireline reflects a couple of things. It reflects the fact that, number one, we got started early. Knowing that this would be a challenging year, we started at the end of last year in terms of identifying areas where we could improve costs.

And we've done two things I think well this year. One is in areas where business volumes have declined, we've been very active in taking costs, the variable costs, out of those areas.

And then secondly, this same consolidation occurring in our operations functions across wireless and wireline has enabled us to take additional fixed costs out of the business.

Going forward, I think there's still substantial opportunities there. We're going to still continue to be aggressive in managing costs. I think as you go into the fourth quarter, there is probably some typical seasonal pressure in our wireline business that we'll see somewhat; but longer term, we're going to continue to work hard to manage costs, to manage through this transition, and to maintain good margins in our wireline business.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions. First, Rick, the bond yield versus equity dividend yield relationship is really as wide as it's ever been. But should we step back here, the market is implying complete confidence around your balance sheet, your ability to refinance but much lower confidence in the outlook for dividend sustainability. I guess, with this as the backdrop, why are you still focused on deleveraging as opposed to buying back shares? And when can we expect that to flip?

And the second question for Ralph on wireless. I guess the concern broadly in wireless is that all the disruption we've seen around pricing in the lower and middle segments in the market will have to make its way into cannibalization of the higher end base. I think your results seem to diffuse that logic to some extent, but I'm wondering if you can maybe give us specifics as you think through your churn.

Are you seeing a shift in where people are going as they leave AT&T? Is there any reason to believe that there's something going on beneath the surface where there's an increasing migration downward? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Jason, on the balance sheet and use of cash questions, the priorities that we have with regard to use of cash haven't changed. We have, as you know, coming up, we've got about $5 billion of wireless acquisitions that are pending. So we've been strengthening and improving the balance sheet and have some cash balances that are available to complete those acquisitions.

And then secondly, we are still somewhat outside of the target range of our credit metrics. So we'll work to bring the metrics back within those ranges.

The good news is that we've -- I think with the cash flow we've seen this year and the strong cash flow continuing into the fourth quarter, we're further ahead of where we expected to be at this point. And the metrics are improving. So once we get the wireless acquisitions done and we've moved back within our ranges, then we've got flexibility with cash to do a number of things, including reconsidering share repurchase and putting that back in the mix.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: And Jason, concerning migration and the pricing in this competitive industry, we have not seen a lot of downward migration. In fact, as I mentioned in my opening comments, what we see is people signing up for our data plans in record numbers.

Even with our own products where we've -- as you probably know, launched an all-you-can-eat prepaid product earlier this month. The product is doing well, but we're not seeing any migration from postpaid to prepaid. So I know that these are very competitive times and competitors often come up with new plans. But so far, what we have seen in our customer base is very steady and no significant migration downwards.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Ralph, thanks for the data on the network performance metrics. That's very helpful.

There's been a lot of focus here on the data demands and clearly, you continue as fast as you're putting new circuits in, you continue to add new data customers. There's a lot of new devices, particularly laptops and tablets and things that are going to put a lot of strain on the network. So where are we on usage-based pricing or pricing tiers that we've seen discussed somewhat, to deal with particularly the small percent of your users that are using a very high amount of data?

And related to that, there's a lot of concern amongst investor community about what happens if and when you lose exclusivity on the iPhone. Perhaps you can touch on that as well. Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes. As everybody knows, we're saying a data explosion that we have never seen, at least in my history in wireless. And as I've mentioned in earlier public comments, a lot of that usage is being driven by a small percentage of the customers.

So we're actually experimenting and doing a lot of customer focus groups to find out the best way to handle that phenomenon. And how do you get a small percentage of the customers to carry their weight, if you will, without imposing on the majority of the customers, something that perhaps is detrimental?

So we continue to look at pricing options and other network management processes in order to hold down the usage. And of course, all of this will be impacted by whatever rules come out from the FCC concerning net neutrality and the capability we're going to have to manage our networks. So that whole area is a little bit influx.

But I'm pretty confident that we're going to be able to come up with ways that kind of mitigate the impact that we have seen, especially by a small number of customers driving an inordinate amount of usage. And I'm not in a position to give you those details today. Our work is still ongoing, but you'll see something from us that addresses this concern in a very good way, I think, in the near future.

In terms of the iPhone, the iPhone continues to be a good source of new gross additions for us. But when you look at the gross additions for the third quarter, the iPhone made up about one-third of our total gross additions. So there's still two-thirds of our gross additions in the quarter are driven by the great portfolio of devices we have in our Company.

And we have a legacy for continuing to have a great portfolio of products, Simon. We know that's going to continue after the iPhone is no longer exclusive to us. And we think that we'll be able to continue that growth with the iPhone and with other products that we think will be very attractive to customers. And I'm very confident that we'll continue to drive growth, as you've seen us.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America-Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BAS-ML: A couple of questions, if I could. Just the first one, to your point, Ralph, about the explosion in data, and just trying to tie that to Rick's comments about the focus on the balance sheet and expectations for strong cash flows next quarter. It does seem like CapEx has been running on the right side. It seems like it would be a stretch to get to the upper bounds of your guidance for this year in that $17 billion to $18 billion range. I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the puts and the takes of keeping CapEx tight and where you think we're going to wind up for the year officially.

And the second question I have is just obviously the FCC meeting is going on in net neutrality today. There's a lot of shouting about the topic. But Rick, it would be helpful, I guess, from an analyst standpoint, to -- as you look at your income statement, if net neutrality breaks one way or the other, how do you think about it from a financial context? Is there really any way that it matters to the numbers at the end of the day?

And if I could, just a last housekeeping point. Could you just give us for the 2010 numbers, the pension one-timers this year and the customer list amortization that will come out of the numbers for next year? That'd be great.

RICK LINDNER: David, let me take a stab at all of those.

First of all, in terms of capital expenditures, we still expect to be in the guidance range that we provided, so roughly $17 billion to $18 billion in CapEx. I know that implies and results in some ramp in the fourth quarter. We had some ramp in CapEx this quarter; we'll have a little bit further next quarter.

Many of the things Ralph talked about in terms of wireless always require planning, preparation, preparatory work that gets done at the cell sites prior to CapEx dollars, harder dollars being spent. And so some of this is just reflective of normal timing. But we expect to be in that range; our guidance hasn't changed here. And that reflects, by the way, all the things that Ralph talked about in his presentation in terms of improvements in our wireless infrastructure.

With respect to net neutrality, I think first of all, I think -- Ralph actually, a couple of weeks ago, at his presentation at CTIA, made a great case for why we believe, in the competitive environment that we're in, that additional regulation over the wireless business, and for that matter, additional regulation over broadband and the Internet in total, is unnecessary at this time.

I think the risk with respect to unnecessary or intrusive regulation in any industry is always with the unintended consequences of that regulatory policy. And that's something I think the FCC will need to be very mindful of and I think we'll be mindful of. Certainly no one in the economic environment that we're in right now wants to have, due to regulation, wants to create any disincentive for investment in infrastructure and the jobs associated with that.

So we'll continue to make that case with the FCC and continue to work with them through this process. And I think, at the end of the day, I think it will be a constructive process.

With respect to pension and post-retirement medical costs, we've got -- we're not yet in a position I think where I can give you guidance for 2010. We still have some things that have to be done and some things that we have to see with respect to 2009. And those are primarily three things.

Number one, as you would expect, we still need to complete the remaining outstanding bargaining agreements -- two that have yet to be done and one in the southwest that is a tentative agreement, but has yet to be ratified.

And then secondly, we've got to see where we end up this year in terms of return on assets in the funds. And obviously, this has been a much better year from a market perspective. So that can provide some help to us as we go into 2010.

On the other side of it, my expectation is, at least where the markets are today, the discount rates will be less and will be lower. And a lower discount rate provides some pressure on pension and post-retirement medical costs.

So between now and, hopefully, the end of this year, all three of those issues will be sorted out so that when we have our call in January, we'll be able to give you definitive guidance on pension and post-retiree medical costs. But I certainly, at this point, wouldn't expect any kind of significant increase to those costs like you've seen in 2009. But again, we'll have to see where all three of those sort out.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Morning. Congratulations on the quarter; a couple of quarters -- questions. Ralph, are you seeing anything that comes close to the iPhone either now or in the future, the next couple of years that you could also promote?

And secondly, Ralph, on the -- can you give us a little bit more detail on the prepaid and wholesale trends? They seem to be very strong this quarter. Do you think prepaid can get that -- kind of some customers stability there?

And then, Rick, maybe you can touch on the overall outlook for the strategic view on the industry. And two questions specifically. Do you think it makes some sense to see a global wireless consolidation, given what's going on with the handsets and maturity of the industry? And maybe the same thing on possibly [TBS] merging with a communications carrier, do you see any benefit to that longer-term? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Tim, this is Ralph. Let me just address some of the iPhone questions and prepaid questions you raised.

In terms of the iPhone and what we see out in the future, we spend an awful lot of time looking for the next great device, the next great technologies so that we can bring that to our customers. And we think that the iPhone has set the bar and that all the manufacturers are racing to figure out how to get close to it.

But I think it's still the best device in the world at this point. And others will continue to press the iPhone but never underestimate the capability that Apple has to continue to innovate and continue to deliver great products.

It's a question in my mind, given the functionality of all these devices, that in the end, it's all about making it simple for customers to use the services. In that regard, Apple is probably the best anywhere in the world. So they're going to get continued pressure from others who are going to try to emulate them; but so far, I think the device is by far the best out there, especially when it comes to ease of use.

In terms of prepaid, we've had a concerted effort for a awhile now to focus on the upper end of the prepaid market to improve our performance in churn, to improve our performance in cost structure, and to improve our performance in self-service. We've had a very concerted effort to do that. And what you saw this quarter is the result of that work in significantly reduced churn, improved profitability, and much better operational performance in terms of delivering the products or services to our customers with a whole lot less cost.

So we're very pleased with how we now have repositioned our prepaid offerings; we're very pleased with the initial take on the $60 all-you-can-eat Talk and Text. And so far, like I mentioned earlier, we have not seen any migration from postpaid customers to prepaid plans.

So we're very bullish on the approach that we're taking. We think it's the right way to go at the prepaid market. And we hope that we'll continue to report good results in the coming quarters. Rick?

RICK LINDNER: Tim, two things, I guess, with respect to industry view. One is stepping back for a minute, consolidation for a minute. I think, certainly, we feel better about the trajectory of the business and the view going forward than we would have shared with you a year ago at this time.

I think when you look across our business lines, we're very encouraged by what we see in wireless and the continuing growth opportunities in wireless data; the continuing -- or the emerging opportunities with some of the new and emerging devices that Ralph talked about. And we feel that can drive not just topline growth, but continued margin improvement for us going forward.

But even in our wireline lines of business, as we talked about some of the improving trends we see in consumer are encouraging. Feels like we're turning the corner there.

And in business, which is probably the most challenged right now, again, we feel very good about how we're positioned and we know it's going to improve as the economy improves; it's just difficult to predict the timing and the shape of the curve when the economy does start to lift.

As far as additional consolidation and structural changes within the industry, I think that when you talk about wireless and consolidation across different geographies and more global consolidation in wireless, it's probably a different type of consolidation than we've seen in the past. It -- whereas, when you're combining two companies that compete in many of the same geographies, there's just a significant amount of natural cost synergies.

When you're combining companies in different geographies, it's a different kind of merger and you have to look at how well a strategic fit it is for you. And you have to generate synergies from it in other ways. There's probably some advantages in terms of scale and procurement, and so forth, but it's still less than what you have in the mergers we've had in the past.

Having said that, I think our view in terms of looking at opportunities and consolidation has never changed. We always look at three things -- first and foremost, does it fit with us well strategically? And two, can we -- is there a deal that can be structured that we feel we can generate a good financial return to our shareowners and an adequate return on investment?

And then three, you always have to be mindful of the regulatory environment and regulatory considerations in terms of the ability to complete a transaction. So all three of those are things that we would look at and continue to look at going forward.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: John, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, JPMorgan.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Obviously, a very strong quarter in iPhone. Just wondering, Ralph, if you can -- and I know you sort of touched upon this, but -- a substantial part of gross, that was coming from non-iPhone's but a very small portion of the net number. Just wondering if there's anything underlying there that we should be thinking about, whether there are promotions you can start to attack there to get better sort of non-iPhone net adds?

And secondly, on the business trends, I think in the slide deck, you guys are indicating that you think 4Q may stabilize to improve on the growth rate. Just trying to get a sense for whether that's just an easier comp year-over-year or whether you're anticipating 4Q to have better underlying trends. Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, this is Ralph. We feel really good about our non-iPhone net adds and gross adds. When people do the math, sometimes they just take the activations times the 40% and assume that those are net adds; but those are really kind of gross adds. You have to subtract from that the churn.

But the bottom line is that we feel really strong about the portfolio of products we have, for example, in quick messaging devices, our Blackberry portfolio and all the smartphones that we have.

One of the things that I really like that I think is actually going to set us apart as these phones, whether they're quick messaging devices or smartphones, is the capability that we have in our network that is hard for some competitors to duplicate. And that is the capability to do simultaneous voice and data.

These devices that are coming out are properly labeled smartphones and they need a smart network that allows you to be able to use voice applications and data applications at the same time. Right now, some of the competitors in the market can't do that. They can use voice or data, but they can't use both at the same time.

So the most prevalent application that people use, which is voice, can't be done at the same time as with data. And what we have in our portfolio is just a smashing set of products that are going to come out to exploit that capability and differentiate us when it comes to that functionality. And also with speed.

Keep in mind that even if we lose the iPhone exclusivity, we're going to probably be the only ones that have a speed of 7.2 that these phones can work on. So they'll work in our network faster than on anybody else's network.

But I can tell you, Mike, that I feel as strongly as I ever have about the capability we have with the devices that are in our lineup. And like Rick mentioned, I'm super excited about the deals that we've been able to do with eReaders, with personal navigation devices, that again highlight the power of the network that we have, that have a global reach.

And what all of these device manufacturers have realized is that benefit of HSPA and GSM technology that when they make a device, it can be a device that can sell anywhere in the world. And that's a unique advantage to our network.

So, I feel good about our network capability and reach, and technology capabilities, as well as some great devices that are going to be running on that network.

RICK LINDNER: Ralph, when you think about the upcoming Android launch, is there anything, maybe some of these capabilities that might be out, sort of coinciding with that? Or is there not anticipated to be a reaction on your side?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: No, no, I've mentioned before that we have kicked the tires on Android; we have evaluated it; we're through with that. Now we're working with handset manufacturers to bring products to market. And again, because of all the capabilities that I mentioned, I think those devices will actually work best on our network when you can do both simultaneous voice and data. They're going to be terrific devices. And I think much better devices than on anybody else's network.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Ralph. And thanks to you again, Ralph, for taking time to be with us this morning. And thanks to everyone for taking part in the call today.

Let me close by just underscoring one key point that we made early on. And that is, that we continue to deliver on the strategy we outlined for you at the beginning of this year.

First, we said we'd be aggressive driving growth in areas that were key to our future, and we've done that. Our wireless customer base, our wireless growth metrics have never been better. We're leading the way in integrated devices, in emerging devices and in wireless data capabilities.

U-Verse continues to have good traction and it's reached a point where it's beginning to reshape our consumer revenue profile. Advanced business services continue to be resilient, delivering mid-teens growth.

The second thing we outlined for you at the beginning of this year was our commitment to eliminate costs, maintain margins, and drive cash flow. And as you look at third quarter results, I think it's clear we've delivered on that front as well. Wireless margins expanded both year-over-year and sequentially; wireline operating expenses were down; and wireline margins were stable sequentially.

Consolidated margins are running ahead of the full-year outlook we gave you in January and cash flow is strong, up nearly $6 billion year-to-date. We continue to return substantial value to shareowners through dividends as we reduce debt and invest in the business.

So the bottom line is good progress on all of these fronts despite a very tough environment. We are getting a lot done in areas that are key to our future growth, and our focus now is on sustaining this kind of execution into the fourth quarter and into 2010.

I want to thank you again for being with us this morning. And as always, thanks for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thank you, John. Thanks, everyone. Have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T executive teleconference. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | icomp : Computing
   NS
c131 : Regulatory Bodies | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091105e5am001e9
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,672 words
   PD
23 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T second-quarter earnings release 2009 conference call. (Operator Instructions). Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Ms. Brooks McCorcle. Ms. McCorcle, you may begin.

BROOKS MCCORCLE, IR, AT&T: Good morning everyone. Welcome to our second-quarter conference call. It is great to have you with us this morning. This is Brooks McCorcle, head of Investor Relations for AT&T, and joining me on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

   TD
In a minute Rick will cover our results and Qs&As will follow. But before we get underway let me remind you that our release, our Investor briefing, supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 2. And that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in this presentation based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website at www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

Before I turn the call over to Rick let me start with a quick financial summary, which is on slide 3. EPS for the quarter was $0.54, and that includes $0.05 of pressure from incremental non-cash pension and retiree benefit costs, consistent with first-quarter results. EPS also reflected margin and expense pressure from or iPhone 3GS launch, as well as lower tax rate.

Consolidated revenues were stable, down fractionally year-over-year and up 0.5 percentage point sequentially, with economic pressures offset by strength in wireless, AT&T U-verse, broadband and strategic business services.

Our consolidated operating income margin was 17.9% for the quarter and 18.3% for the first-half of the year. And this was another strong free cash flow quarter, $8.4 billion for the first-half versus $3.9 billion in the same period a year ago, reflecting solid cost efforts, lower capital expenditures and also the timing of cash tax payments.

With that as a quick overview, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Lindner.

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T: Good morning everyone. Before we get into the details, I would like to take just a couple of minutes and talk about what we are seeing in the environment. The economic trends and the impacts on the business are generally consistent with what we saw in the first quarter. New products on our wireless and U-verse platforms continue to do very well. And we are pleased to report sequential stability in wireline consumer revenues.

But that said, employment and business formation continue to lag. And as you would anticipate, the impacts are most evident in our business results.

In this environment we have managed costs aggressively, and that is reflected in solid margins and strong free cash flow. At the same time we know that the economy will return to growth, so our objective is not just to manage during this downturn, but to prepare the business for the opportunities beyond. So we continue to invest and grow in key areas like wireless broadband, advanced business services, and our AT&T U-verse platform.

Our goal is to make sure that when the economy turns we are stronger financially and stronger operationally, with solid momentum in the areas that will lead future growth. That is a game plan for this year and the game plan behind our achievements in the second quarter, which are highlighted on slide 4.

We continue to build excellent momentum in wireless. We had a terrific postpaid quarter with net adds and churn at best-ever levels. We had a strong iPhone quarter with 2.4 million activations. And including the iPhone, the number of 3G integrated devices on our network increased by 3.5 million. All of these things helps drive robust wireless data growth and ARPU improvements.

At the same time, U-verse continues to ramp nicely, which helps drive wireline IP data revenue growth. So to sum up the quarter, we delivered solid earnings per share, operating margins and free cash flow, with some obvious economic impacts particularly in business, but with good execution on the cost side and positive momentum in our growth products.

Now let's turn and look at consolidated revenues, which are on slide 5. Revenues totaled $30.7 billion, that is down slightly year-over-year and up 0.5 percentage point sequentially. This reflects continued growth in wireless and in wireline data.

Wireless service revenues were up more than $1 billion or 9.4%. Wireline data revenues were up 5.2%, right in line with our growth rate in this category over the past few quarters. And wireline IP data revenues were up 17%, also consistent with recent trends.

These drivers offset economic impacts in wireline voice products.

As we show in the pie chart on the bottom left of this slide, our revenue mix is increasingly weighted to the growth areas of wireless data and managed services. In the second quarter 67% of revenues came from these categories, and that was up 500 basis points versus the year-earlier quarter, and 1,000 basis points from the second quarter two years ago.

Our wireless details start on slide 6, where we look at overall subscriber and revenue trends. In the second quarter we delivered 1.4 million net adds, and we accelerated wireless revenue growth. Service revenues were up more than $1 billion versus the second quarter a year ago, better than 9% year-over-year, with sequential growth at 2.7%. Total wireless revenues were up better than 10% year-over-year and up 3% sequentially.

I think these results clearly demonstrate the ability to continue wireless growth through penetration of integrated and emerging devices, which are driving wireless data.

Our wireless results were led by postpaid growth, the details are on slide 7. In the first quarter this year we were the only major national carrier to deliver year-over-year growth in postpaid net adds. And we continue to win at the high end of the market with another strong set of postpaid results. In the second quarter postpaid gross adds were up nearly 15%. We had our best ever postpaid churn, 1.09%, with sequential churn improvement in both consumer and business.

This was our fourth consecutive quarter with double-digit year-over-year improvement in postpaid net adds, up roughly 30% year-over-year and sequentially.

Postpay data ARPU was up 26%, and total postpaid subscriber ARPU for the first time topped $60, up $1.33 year-over-year and up $1 sequentially. One of the keys to our wireless growth has been our strategy of aggressively driving integrated device penetration. The trends are on slide 8.

We offer today a wide variety of integrated devices, ranging from advanced multifunction handsets for business customers to quick messaging and social networking devices. In the second quarter our total 3G integrated devices and servers increased more than 3.5 million. And over the past year the number of integrated devices on our network more than doubled. And integrated device penetration of our postpaid base increased twofold to 36%.

Integrated devices are important, because they are a key component in the platform for advanced services. ARPUs for all integrated devices are 1.8 times that of our non-integrated device base. 60% of our integrated devices are on a family plan, and roughly one-third are purchased through business relationships. And both of these factors strengthen customer retention. In the second quarter better than 60% of our postpaid sales were with integrated devices, which indicates the upside opportunity.

Integrated device growth in the second quarter was led by a strong launch for the iPhone 3GS, starting June 19. The day of the launch was the best sales day after for our AT&T retail stores. And our website, ATT.com, had it largest order day ever.

For the full second quarter AT&T iPhone activations totaled more than 2.4 million. 35% of those activations were for the customers who were new to AT&T. Better than half of the upgrades previously had no data plan. Better than 80% of the upgrades were from a non-iPhone device or a 2G iPhone, increasing ARPU, and in the case of 2G upgrades, eliminating our revenue share with Apple.

And the iPhone subscriber characteristics continue to be terrific. ARPUs are significantly above our postpaid average. Churn is much lower. Recurring margins continue to be high. And our iPhone customers continue to have very strong NPVs.

Beyond great devices, the ecosystem for wireless data growth includes a great spectrum position, a robust network, and access to terrific applications and content. And AT&T has all of these components, and as a result our wireless data growth continues to be robust. The details are on slide 9.

Wireless data revenues were up more than $900 million versus the year-ago quarter. In the second quarter our network carried more than 108 billion text messages, nearly doubled our total in the year-earlier quarter. We had more than 1 billion multimedia messages. Media bundle revenues also nearly double. Internet access revenues grew nearly 20%. And more than 50% of our postpaid subscribers now have monthly recurring data plans.

We have excellent momentum in wireless data. We have the fastest 3G data network and we are working hard to improve coverage and performance every day. Our network handles more integrated devices and more data traffic than any of our competitors.

And network performance will be enhanced as we execute the HSPA 7.2 initiative we announced in the second quarter. This effort will increase capacity and significantly increase wireless speeds ahead of 4G, something no other major carrier in the US is doing. The work is already underway, and our iPhone 3GS customers will be able to realize benefits as soon as the 7.2 upgrade is turned up.

In addition, we are aggressively deploying high quality 850 spectrum across our 3G markets, which significantly improves coverage and in-building penetration. We are deployed in 265 of our 3G markets already, and expect to have incorporated 850 in approximately 300 markets by the end of this year.

The early results from our 850 work is quite positive. Where we have completed the 850 3G integration our before and after drive tests are showing in accessibility and retainability improvements averaging 20%. Our customers are able to get network access in more places and with fewer dropped calls. And in some markets we are seeing as much as a 30% to 40% increase in 3G minutes once 850 spectrum is incorporated. So our customers are feeling the difference.

We are also taking the lead in emerging wireless devices, including netbooks and eReaders. This week, for example, we have announced plans to launch the Plastic Logic eReader early next year. We have also expanded our relationship with Jasper Wireless, which will strengthen our platform and accelerate emerging device market entry.

You will see us continue to lead in the emerging device space, which will drive growth in both data revenues and margins.

As we drive growth in wireless, we are also delivering solid margins and we continue to have a strong wireless margin outlook. The details are on slide 10. Our second-quarter wireless service EBITDA margin was 38.3%, reflecting a slight decline from the previous quarter, driven by better than anticipated iPhone volumes.

Excluding the incremental impacts of the iPhone launch this quarter, our wireless margin would have been above 40%, and generally in line with the year-earlier quarter and first quarter of this year.

It is worth looking at the margin trend we saw in the second quarter this year, versus the impact we felt from the iPhone 3G launch in the third quarter last year. This is shown on the chart on this slide.

With similar iPhone activations, 2.4 million, and similar subsidies, the margin impact was just one-third of what we saw last year. That reflects operational improvements in our business, obviously, and most of all it reflects the increased base of Premier customers we have built with attractive ARPUs and attractive recurring margins. As a result, our longer-term outlook for wireless margin expansion is unchanged in the mid-40% range.

Let me turn now and talk about our other major initiative, AT&T U-verse TV and related services. Slide 11 has an update. We had a solid net add quarter with an increase in U-verse TV subscribers of 248,000, bringing our total to 1.6 million. Across all eligible living units U-verse TV penetration now it is in the double digits. And in areas marketed to for 18 months or more, we are seeing penetration rates in the high teens.

We continue to add features. And it is clear that the great potential of U-verse is not just in video, but in a set of integrated, interactive services made possible by an all-IP platform. And we are seeing progress in that transformation. U-verse broadband attach rates continue to run above 90%. And the attach rate for U-verse Voice, our voice over IP service, has moved up and is now above 65%.

More than three-quarters of our U-verse customers were either triple or quad play, combining TV, broadband, voice and wireless.

U-verse has steadily gained scale, and based on our second-quarter results our annualized revenue run rate from U-verse services now approaches $2 billion and growing.

And looking more broadly at our total TV subscriber base, our DirecTV relationship is going well. We added more than 100,000 subs in the second quarter. We now have more than 2 million bundled satellite TV subscribers. And our total TV penetration, U-verse plus satellite, is now nearly 14% of households served.

U-verse made an important contribution also to broadband net adds. The details are on slide 12. Our second-quarter increase in total broadband subscribers combining wireline connections with wireless 3G laptop cards was 209,000. That is a significant increase year-over-year. And is a pretty good number for the second quarter, which as many of you know is affected by seasonality.

Wireline broadband net adds were driven by U-verse. Our U-verse high-speed Internet connections nearly tripled over the past year to 1.6 million. And they were driven by continued growth in standalone broadband, often combined with wireless.

Our recurring ARPU from wired broadband improved this quarter, up 3% year-over-year and sequentially, reflecting an increased percentage of customers on higher-speed tiers.

Customers increasingly choose broadband with the expectation of a full range of wired, mobile and portable choices. And that is what we are uniquely able to provide through our wired broadband network, the nation's fastest 3G wireless data network, and our industry-leading Wi-Fi footprint.

U-verse and broadband have helped our overall consumer trends. The highlights on slide 13. While regional consumer revenues were down 6.4% year-over-year, that was a slight improvement from the quarter before. And regional consumer revenues were relatively flat sequentially.

As we show in the chart on the left, our growing mix of TV and video customers helped deliver our sixth quarter in a row with year-over-year growth in consumer revenues per household, up better than 2%. This reflects nearly 30% growth in consumer IP data revenues. That is a combination of broadband and U-verse.

And where we have U-verse our voice and overall connection trends are better. When you look at total consumer connections, our second quarter decline this year was 40% less than a year ago, despite a more difficult economy. As U-verse continues to scale we are starting to see improvement in stability in our key regional consumer metrics.

Now as I said at the outset, where we are seeing the deepest economic impacts is in business. And we have a summary on slide 14. Total business revenues, that includes enterprise, wholesale, as well as small and midsized customers, were down 5.6% year-over-year. Excluding equipment sales, business revenues were down 4.3%.

Economic impacts on revenues are fairly straightforward, with little change from the first quarter. We have seen pressures across business product lines, but the largest impacts are volume related in traditional voice and legacy data products.

The sectors where we have seen the most impact, as you would expect, are in finance, transportation and manufacturing. In terms of profitability some of the areas where we have seen volume declines also carry lower margins, products like equipment and international long distance. And fixed cost reductions in sales and network have kept overall business margins relatively stable.

The improvements we are making in our cost structure in sales, customer service, access and network are important and will provide operating leverage as the economy rebounds and revenue growth returns.

Competitively we continue to do well in the market. The new contract we just announced with DHL is an example. And while we expect the current trends to continue in the second half of 2009, our longer-term view of business continues to be quite positive. AT&T is well-positioned with customers and capabilities in the global business space.

Now with that overview of market and operational trends, let me close with a look at margins and cash flow. Consolidated margin comparisons are on slide 15. We said at the beginning of the year that we expected our 2009 consolidated operating income margin, before incremental pension and retiree benefit costs, would be stable with 2008 results.

For the first half of the year our reported consolidated operating margin was 18.3%, and approaching 20% when you exclude the incremental pension and retiree costs. This puts us on a good path against our full-year margin outlook, and reflects solid progress in both wireless and wireline.

Cost reduction initiatives are ahead of schedule, as we consolidate support functions, network operations and business services. Total force declined by nearly 6,000 in the quarter and 14,000 in the first-half of the year. And as I outlined earlier, we have good momentum and margin opportunity in our wireless business.

Along with solid margins, we also continue to deliver strong free cash flow. Slide 16 provides a cash summary. Cash from operations over the first-half of the year totaled $15.8 billion, up from $13.5 billion in the first-half a year ago, due to cost initiatives and the timing of cash tax payments.

Our capital expenditures for the first-half totaled $7.4 billion. Free cash flow before dividends was $8.4 billion, and dividend payments totaled $4.8 billion. Since mid year 2008 we have reduced debt, net of cash on hand, by more than $9 billion. Our balance sheet is sound, debt metrics are solid. And with cash on hand we have the flexibility to retire additional debt as it comes due in the second-half of this year.

Slide 17 provides a quick recap for the quarter. We had a strong wireless quarter. And with our spectrum, network and device lineup we are well-positioned for sustained wireless growth. While many are worried about high penetration rates and slowing wireless growth, our postpaid customer growth, ARPU and revenue growth all accelerated this quarter.

We continue to grow U-verse, and the platform is performing very well. U-verse is driving improvement and stability in our consumer business, as we expected. In business despite a difficult environment, we continue to grow IP data and advanced business services. And with our capabilities and improvements in cost structure, we are uniquely positioned to benefit as the economy returns to growth.

And finally, we are delivering on what we said we would do this year. We are managing costs aggressively, which supports margins. We continue to invest in the key growth areas for our future. And we are delivering strong free cash flow, while maintaining a sound balance sheet.

Brooks, that concludes my prepared comments. I think we are ready to take some questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Sandra, we are now ready to open up for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: On the iPhone, impressive results, but Apple had talked about supply constraints. Perhaps you could just give us a sense of to what extent those -- you experienced those, and where are we in terms of sorting this out and getting demand and supply matched up?

And secondly, could you talk a little bit about GoPhone had a weaker quarter, about what is going on there and what are your plans to address that?

RICK LINDNER: With respect to iPhone, it was absolutely a terrific launch. And it certainly surpassed our expectations in terms of demand. In fact, you have to step back and kind of put it in perspective. This is now the third generation of the product, and yet demand was very strong, and continues to be strong well into July now.

I think in terms of supply, Apple discussed that and talked about that on their call. And they are certainly doing everything possible to keep units in the supply chain. And we are out of units in some locations, but we continue to get units in every week. So I think we are doing a reasonable job of keeping up with the demand right now. But I think as Apple said on their call, it is difficult to predict how the demand continues over this next month or so, and exactly at what point we will have full supply in all of our locations. But the overall launch was terrific.

With respect to GoPhone and pre-paid results for the quarter, pre-paid results were weaker for the quarter. Obviously we had a net loss of customers of about 400,000. We had lower churn year-over-year. And we have been working to bring churn down and we are seeing some benefits there. But the impact was more on the gross sales side. And certainly we are seeing impacts from other competitive offers in the market.

One thing I think is important and to keep in mind is to put pre-paid for us in perspective. Pre-paid represents about 4% of our wireless service revenues, and it is less as a percent of EBITDA. Obviously, we recognize there is certainly some opportunities for us there in that portion of the market, and so you will see us continue to address that and make some tweaks and changes to our product offers. But one thing that I think we feel is important is we are not going to put offers in the market that we don't feel will be profitable or earn a reasonable return. And we won't do anything, obviously, that would impact or cannibalize our postpaid base. But it is an opportunity for us, I think, going forward.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a quick follow-up on the comments about the strong July. It sounds like the iPhone refresh really had a meaningful impact on the quarter, even though it was really just out there for two weeks. As we look ahead into the third quarter, really I guess the 2.4 million number from an activation standpoint looks like we could go higher from here, given a full quarter, and then maybe increased availability.

Can you talk a little bit about the impact on the margins? It would -- I would assume that if it is higher in the third quarter you would see more pressure on margins even from the 38.3% that you guys reported. Are there any other sort of offsets that could come in as ARPU improves and potentially churn continues to come down that could offset the pressure we could see from additional activations next quarter?

RICK LINDNER: It is hard at this point to predict the impact on margins in the short term. We do know that as we start to benefit from the recurring ARPUs and revenues from this customer base, that margins will grow. And we are confident in growing margins back over the 40% level and eventually into the mid-40s. But it is difficult to predict this next quarter or two, just based on the fact that we have been surprised thus far with the strength in demand for the iPhone 3GS.

So we will just -- we will see how it goes. I would tell you this, we are certainly -- it is good growth for us, and so we are certainly going to pursue it as we continue to see demand for the iPhone and demand in total for integrated devices.

And a couple of things to note in it, this quarter the percent of iPhone customers -- new customers that were upgrades versus new to AT&T, went up a little bit. It went up to about 65%. That has been fairly normal. Whenever a new product is launched we tend to see more upgrades in the first few weeks, and then it begins to -- in the past it has settled down into that 60/40 mix. Given the size of our iPhone base now though I think it wouldn't be surprising to see upgrades be more in kind of a mid-60%s range.

But one interesting thing, what we are seeing in the upgrades so far has been very encouraging. 60% or more of the upgrades in this quarter were coming from a non-iPhone device. And with those customers we are seeing pretty significant growth in ARPU, as they add data packages. In fact, if you look at all of the iPhone upgrades this quarter, over 50% of those customers didn't previously have a data package on their phone.

And then 20% or more of the upgrades this quarter we're moving from an iPhone, but it was -- they were moving from the 2G iPhone to the 3GS. And that upgrade from the 2G iPhone helps us in a couple of ways, as we mentioned. It also -- it adds ARPU as they increase the size of their data plan, but then also reduces our revenue share commitment. So even the upgrade activity we saw this quarter, I think, was very positive.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: A couple of questions for you, Rick. The first is, you have done a terrific job in delevering the business. It looks like you could actually almost end the year right around 1.5 or possibly below 1.5 turns debt to EBITDA. At what point do you stop focusing on buying back debt that has an interest rate of 6% and buying back a stock that has a 7% yield on it and obviously no tax benefits?

And then secondly on the CapEx, if I look at your spend right now, it looks like you have done about $7 billion. The guidance implied somewhere around $17 billion to $18 million. Does it still seem plausible that you'll spend ballpark about $10 billion in the back half of this year?

RICK LINDNER: First of all, in terms of capital structure and use of cash, we are in a very good position right now. The strong liquidity position -- we've got no CP outstanding and about $7 billion of cash -- reported cash. So that is -- actually on a net debt, if you took cash net of debt, our debt to EBITDA would be down around 1.6 right now.

However we do have -- as you know, we have roughly about $5 billion in acquisitions -- wireless acquisitions to close yet, so that will be a use of cash for us in the second half of this year. And then we will also be using that cash to handle debt maturities and refinancing as it occurs in the second-half of this year.

Our objective and commitment is to bring our credit metrics down to 1.5 or below. And then I think once we have achieved that we will certainly be looking hard at share repurchase. But I am pleased with the results we have had over the last six months -- really over the last year -- in terms of cash flow and cash accumulation and reduction of debt.

In terms of CapEx, our CapEx will be a little more back end loaded this year in terms of the second-half of the year, but I expect we will be in the $17 billion, $18 billion range that we have guided to. We are stepping up CapEx in a number of areas. And probably the number one area is in wireless, where we are continuing to build additional coverage and capacity in 3G, as we talked about in the presentation, moving 3G down into the 850 megahertz spectrum.

And importantly in addition to that, we are spending, and will be spending, some dollars in the wired portion of the network providing the backhaul between the cell sites and the switches. That is important as we continue to evolve the wireless data network, and as we roll out beginning late this year, HSPA 7.2. You've got to have that wired infrastructure to handle the data traffic there. So my expectation is that we will be in the guidance range for CapEx.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks, Rick. Very helpful.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions, maybe on consumer wireline. A bit of a positive inflection in the trend rate. Rick, can you just walk us through the puts and takes in your mind that would help us think through whether this is really the start of a positive trend, or maybe conversely things that make this stabilization may be a bit more questionable in your mind?

And then maybe second question on enterprise. You had guarded comments, obviously, around what you are seeing. That has been echoed in the industry. If we look at companies that are deemed to be more sort of midcycle enterprise providers, maybe sort of hardware/software, they are starting to talk about at least small inflection points.

You have been later in the cycle in enterprise traditionally, but given what we have heard from the others, this has sort of put us on a path for 4Q of this year or 1Q of next year for potential positive inflections in your enterprise business. Just thinking through this, I am wondering if you agree with that and how you might think through that?

RICK LINDNER: First of all, in consumer we were pleased with the results this quarter. I think it is probably still early to call it a major change in the trend. But the fact is our consumer revenue connections -- the revenue connection loss for the quarter was significantly below second quarter of last year in a quarter that, as you know, typically is seasonally weaker.

The puts and takes of it are pretty simple, I think. Solid results with both U-verse video as well as broadband certainly is helping. And the fact that as we are adding U-verse customers two-thirds of those customers are taking the U-verse Voice over IP product. It is also providing lift. And that product is -- we call it a U-verse Voice or a VOIP product, but from a consumer standpoint what they are buying is they are buying a wireline voice product. And so that has been positive.

Then when you look at the basic access line trends in consumer, we have actually seen the access line loss there flattened out somewhat. And so that is where the VoIP product and solid broadband and video are starting to help those revenue connection trends. And if we can improve the revenue connection trends, we know the revenues will follow. And the fact that it was sequentially pretty flat between first and second quarter is a positive sign for us.

Things are moving there in the direction that we expected. I would say we are pleasantly surprised with the movement, given where we are in the economy.

On enterprise, our plan and how we are planning the rest of this year certainly, we are not planning on an economic recovery that would drive a turn at this point in enterprise revenue growth and volumes. If it occurs or starts to occur earlier, we will be pleasantly surprised. It will be a good thing. But we are planning the rest of the year, I think, appropriately in planning it cautiously.

We do know that business revenues and volumes will return. I think for us to see it in a meaningful way in our business we have to see some real improvement in some key economic indicators. We've got to see improvements in employment. We have to see improvements in gross fixed investment, new business formations.

And as you start to see those metrics really turn back positive, not just decline by a smaller amount, but turn back positive, then you will see growth in this business.

And one of the things that I have to commend the business team -- and Ron Spears and his team, in this year is that they recognized early on that this would be a difficult year economically. They began working hard last fall on the cost side of the business. So despite pressures obviously that we have seen in revenues this year, they have been able to keep the margins in business stable.

And that is a pretty strong feed, not just because we are seeing some revenue pressures, but we are also seeing some transition from some higher margin products like legacy voice to data, IP and managed services, which traditionally have been lower margin. And they have been able to offset those impacts on the margin line.

I do think that will position us well. As the economy does start to turn we will be able to leverage those cost improvements as we start to see some growth in the top line again.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: If I could come a couple on wireless maybe. First, we've gotten some pretty specific game plan details from Verizon, for instance, on their LTE deployment for the next couple of years in terms of the scope of what they want to deploy and the kind of product that they want to put out there. I was wondering if you could try to give us some corresponding color for what specifically you are hoping to accomplish with the HSPA, plus buildout in terms of coverage timetable and capability.

If I could, the second question would be, obviously you have had very strong growth in data ARPU. If you look at the 18% increases year-over-year in integrated devices, which you are sharing have an 80% higher than average ARPU, it would suggest that those new players added 16% revenue per user growth year-over-year. But we are still only reporting 2% postpaid ARPU growth year-over-year, which further implies that everyone who is not an integrated device subscriber has ratcheted back their spending pretty aggressively.

So when you look at that dynamic, what is your comfort level that we can continue to push this 80% premium ARPU further and further into a base that seems to be ratcheting back their wireless spending?

RICK LINDNER: Good question questions. I think first of all on wireless data and plans in the evolution of that network, I think what we are doing is going to be a very logical and really an elegant transition for our customer base in terms of wireless data.

First of all, we will start to roll out HSPA 7.2 near the end of this year. And once we begin the rollout, we will move it through our 3G footprint fairly quickly, because it is primarily -- it is primarily a software upgrade in the network. We are making some changes and enhancements, particularly in the back haul network, to support it, but those are enhancements that will be required as we then move to 4G as well.

The iPhone 3GS is already 7.2 compatible, so as soon as we turn up -- begin to turn up those enhancements the iPhone 3GS users -- and they drive and will drive by that period of time a fair amount of data traffic -- they will immediately be able to take advantage of the 7.2 software. And from just a practical standpoint it does two things. It will nearly double their effective -- their bandwidth and their throughput, so they will see and experience a much faster data experience.

Secondly, for us it will about double the capacity that we can handle in the network. So as we continue to grow the base of customers with integrated devices, and as that data traffic continues to grow, that is an important way for us to stay in front of the growth in the data traffic.

And then at that point we are positioned, I think, very well with the back haul infrastructure. We are positioned very well then to begin to roll into 4G and begin to implement LTE.

We want to make sure with -- we have seen this with every network upgrade -- major network upgrade or new technology in wireless, there is always a period of time where there are issues and bugs with the software and with the hardware, and we want to make sure those are shaken out, so that as we begin to deploy LTE that the platform is stable. We also want to make sure that there are a sufficient number of devices available in LTE at that point so that we can -- as we deploy it we can immediately begin to move traffic into it.

The advantage from our standpoint and from our customer's standpoint as we go through each of these transitions though is that the devices we will be selling, whether they be 7.2 or the devices that are LTE, are always backwards compatible with the prior technologies. And they will be backwards compatible with the full footprint that we offer in 3G.

So I think that is critical to customers, as new customers begin to use these new technologies that they don't see any loss and coverage as they move into them. So that is in essence the path we are on in terms of the wireless data evolution.

In terms of ARPU, first of all, we are seeing -- and we saw this quarter -- some nice growth in postpaid ARPU year-over-year, and also saw growth sequentially. That growth obviously is driven by the increase in data ARPU. But we are seeing some offsets. And the offsets are in -- tend to be right now in usage-based revenues. Some of those in voice usage, some of those in data usage. Things like international roaming and long-distance is down. And so we are seeing those economic impacts.

The good news is -- and that is, by the way, if there is one area in wireless I think where you see some of those impacts, it is in some of the usage-based revenues and it is in international roaming and LD.

Those elements will also come back as the economy comes back, and as people begin to feel more comfortable with their wireless spend, as they feel more comfortable in doing more travel. And so we believe we will continue to see then some lift there as the economy comes back. But in the meantime, the wireless data growth continues to drive stronger ARPU.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, Macquarie.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: It seems what we are talking about -- really a lot of strength driven by iPhone and other high-end devices, but I think we are just increasing the exposure that the Company has to possibly losing the exclusivity on the iPhone. Can you give us some confidence that this exclusive deal that is going to happen is going to continue for quite some time, and where the negotiations are with Apple?

And then second of all, on the Centennial deals you mentioned the deals that need to close in the second-half. Can you give us an update on what the regulatory situation is there? I know you said it is in the third quarter, but it seems like Puerto Rico is becoming an issue. And can you just tell us what is going on in Washington?

RICK LINDNER: First of all, in terms of iPhone exclusivity, as you know and we have said from the beginning, that is something that we and Apple have agreed not to disclose in terms of the terms and the length of our agreement.

But let me step back and talk a little bit about the iPhone base, and hopefully give you some comfort about -- not per se the agreement, but what happens with the iPhone as we go forward and at some point it becomes nonexclusive.

If you look at our numbers at the end of the second quarter, we had just under 9 million iPhone customers. I think one important point to remember is that over 60% of those customers were not new to us. They were our customers prior to the iPhone launch. In addition, if you look, not just at the iPhone, but as we mentioned in the presentation, if you look at integrated devices in total, a large portion, 60% or so of those integrated devices, are part of family plans that we have. Which tend to have -- tend to be stickier and have lower rates of churn.

About one-third or more of our integrated devices are on -- are associated with business relationships. So they are company paid phones or they are phones that qualify for a specific corporate discount and corporate relationship. So when you start to put all of those things together, I think that gives some comfort as to the stickiness of this space and the ability to maintain this space going forward.

And obviously we will always have, and strive to have, a top-of-the-line, robust device lineup. In addition, the things that I talked about earlier in terms of network performance and network quality improvements, I think will also help retain this base. So that is I think -- that is our view with respect to, not just the iPhone, but exclusivity on devices in general.

In terms of the transactions pending approval, we are working -- in Centennial specifically we are working with the Department of Justice and working with the FCC on approval. We would -- I can tell you we are working to resolve any issues and get those deals approved and closed as soon as possible.

I think you have to take into account in Washington, obviously in the last six months or so there has been a lot of turnover in a lot of these agencies in terms of the leadership, as well as in some of the staff positions. So it takes a little bit longer. And this one has taken a little longer than we originally expected to get approved. But we are continuing to work at both the Department of Justice and the FCC to get these deals closed.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Sandra, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: The last question will be from Mike McCormick, J.P. Morgan.

MIKE MCCORMICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Rick, just trying to drill a little bit deeper on the wireless margin side. I know you have been talking about getting to that mid 40% range over some period of time. Is there any way to put some sort of parameters around that time frame as we are modeling out?

Secondly, on the prior guidance of getting into low 40% range as you exit the year, it is that still part of your guidance?

And then lastly, the operational improvements that you pointed out, just looking at similar iPhone activations, was about 480 basis points versus the last go around. I am just trying to see if that is a constant operational improvement that we should carry through, assuming that iPhone activations are similar to the prior year?

RICK LINDNER: As I mentioned earlier, I think it is difficult to predict the next quarter or two just solely because of difficulty I think in predicting iPhone volumes. And if volumes are stronger, and if they continue to be very strong in the next couple of quarters, it is not impossible for us to drive margins back over 40%, but it creates more of a challenge to do that. And so we will just have to see how the volumes come through. To the extent the volumes are high, frankly, that will be great.

As far as moving into the mid-40s, it is just continuing to do the things that we have been doing in terms of growing customer base and revenues and leveraging that drove in the cost structure. Obviously, some of that growth in the short term provides some pressure. But longer-term you grow past that and the margins are going to increase, just as you saw them increase last year.

So it is probably scale more than anything else. But in addition to that, some of the changes we have made in organization over this past year also gives us, I think, the ability to drive more margin improvement in our wireless business and, frankly, helps to maintain -- it has helped us to maintain margins in wireline over this past year.

I can't give you a specific timeframe in terms of mid-40%s, but it is certainly something we look at within our planning cycle, which generally we are looking out over the next 2 to 3 years.

MIKE MCCORMICK: Just maybe lastly on the tax rate. It looked a little bit lower than we anticipated this quarter. Is that something we should carry through or is there anything we should be thinking about?

RICK LINDNER: No, Mike, we had -- the tax rate was a little bit lower in this quarter. And it was a result of the completion of the exam periods for some of our 2003 to 2005 audit years. The completion of those, and the receipt of those exam results, and resolution of some issues there allowed us to reduce some reserves. So that is the impact you see in this quarter. I would expect for the year for us to be -- for the total year to finish in kind of the mid-30%, 35% range in terms of effective tax rate.

MIKE MCCORMICK: I appreciate it, guys.

RICK LINDNER: Okay, thanks to all of you for your questions and thanks to everybody for taking part in the call today. Let me close quickly by just underscoring a couple of points. Through the first-half of 2009 I think as a company we have executed well in a pretty challenging environment, doing what we said we would do at the beginning of this year. We continue to be focused on things that we believe will make AT&T stronger operationally and stronger financially, so that we are in a strong position to benefit as the economy turns.

We have accelerated wireless revenue growth, and our integrated device strategy is working. We are winning high-value wireless customers. The iPhone is proving to be a terrific investment for us. And you're seeing the impact, not just in activation totals, but in better churn and stronger ARPU.

At the same time we are moving forward aggressively to keep our wireless momentum strong as we rollout HSPA 7.2 to increase network speeds and capacity ahead of 4G. This gives us a better platform for emerging devices.

Our iPhone 3GS subscribers will be able to take advantage of improved speeds immediately. And it gives our customers the most seamless network experience as we make the transition to 4G.

In consumer, as we scale U-verse, consumer revenue trends are moving towards stabilization. And in business, as we manage through the downturn, we continue to add to our capabilities, maintain strong customer relationships, and improve our cost structure, which will generate operating leverage as growth returns.

We are ahead of plan on Companywide cost initiatives, and as a result margins are stable and cash flow is strong. That has allowed us to reduce debt and provide support for the dividend. We have a good cash position. In our balance sheet the credit metrics are sound, with net debt down over the past year more than $9 billion.

So in a challenging economic environment I think we've gotten a lot done this year. And based on what we have accomplished to date, looking ahead to the second-half, I think we are in a good position to deliver full-year consolidated margins, EPS and cash flow in-line with what we outlined for you in January.

I want to thank you again for being with us this morning. And, as always, I want to thank you for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thanks, everyone, have a great day. Thank you, Sandra.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | icomp : Computing
   NS
e1101 : Economic Growth | c151 : Earnings | gpersf : Personal Finance | e1112 : Capacity Utilization | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | cprdcl : Facility Closures | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cknowm : Knowledge Management | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090806e57n001mi
  


 HD
 Q3  2008  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,603 words
   PD
22 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter earnings release 2008 conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Brooks McCorcle. Ms. McCorcle, you may begin.

BROOKS MCCORCLE, IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, Sandra. Good morning, everyone and welcome to our third-quarter conference call. It is really good to have you with us this morning. As Sandra mentioned, this is Brooks McCorcle. I run Investor Relations for AT&T and joining me on the call this morning are Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer and Ralph de la Vega, AT&T's President and Chief Executive Officer for Mobility and Consumer Markets.

   TD
As you know, we released third-quarter results earlier this morning and as you have seen, our wireless results were a key driver. So we wanted to have Ralph on the call this morning to talk about the business and provide additional background.

Before we get underway, let me remind you that our release, investor briefing, supplementary information and the presentation slides that accompany this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

I also need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3. And that says that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and that actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our website at www.ATT.com/investor.relations.

With that covered, let me take you through our EPS comparisons, which are on slide 4. Reported EPS this quarter was $0.55. We had $0.12 of non-cash merger costs and the result is adjusted EPS of $0.67. There are a couple of things that are not excluded from our adjusted results that I want to mention. First, our third-quarter reported and adjusted EPS does not exclude approximately $0.10 of pressure related to very strong results generated by our iPhone 3G initiative. As we have outlined previously, these are success-based costs. Obviously, we are thrilled by the terrific response. Demand was greater than we anticipated. We are certainly winning customers at the high end and as Ralph will cover in more detail, this is really great for our business long term.

Also, third-quarter reported and adjusted EPS does not exclude approximately $0.02 of pressure due to costs associated with hurricanes, including Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, which, as you know, struck the Gulf Coast in September. Restoration work is continuing and we expect additional storm impacts in our fourth-quarter results. With that background, I'll now turn the call over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP & CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Brooks and good morning, everyone. It is great to be with you again. Before I dive into the slides, I want to make just a few general comments. When I look at the quarter, I believe our results show that while no business is immune to the broader environment, our business mix is more resilient than most. Our revenue streams are predominantly subscription-based. I believe we have the best assets in the telecom industry, along with terrific scale. And we are very sound financially and we are executing with a great deal of discipline.

Looking ahead, we have opportunities, both in terms of revenue initiatives, as well as on the cost side of our business. We have a seasoned management team and we know how to adjust and drive operations.

As you may have read recently, we have begun a reorganization of our business to simplify operations and make sure our customer focus remains sharp and that our business initiatives move forward as technology and our networks advance.

Along with that, we will have opportunities to improve costs. Our planning is just getting underway and we will have more to report in the quarters ahead, but this is just to re-emphasize the point that while the macroenvironment is obviously not ideal, there are still opportunities to improve operations and that is where we were focused.

Now if I may, let me start with slide 5, which lays out our third-quarter highlights. As Ralph will cover in more detail, we drove terrific growth this quarter in wireless. 2 million net adds, 1.7 million of them postpaid; the best postpaid results for any quarter in our history; 2.4 million iPhone activations, roughly 40% of them for new AT&T customers; continued 50% plus wireless data growth and continued mid-teens growth in total wireless revenues, up 15.4% this quarter.

In addition, our business trends continue to be stable. We had sequential growth in enterprise, wholesale and regional business, all three areas. Our U-verse TV service continues to ramp and we are on track to exceed a million subscribers this year. And we continue to have a strong balance sheet. We reduced debt in the third quarter as we told you we would. We continue to have access to the credit markets and we have the financial strength to return value to shareowners and invest in the future of our business.

Turning to slide 6, slide 6 shows our consolidated revenues. Total revenues for the quarter topped $31 billion. That is up more than $1 billion or 3.3% versus adjusted results for the year-ago quarter. And it is up 1.5% sequentially. The major drivers are wireless where, as I said, revenues grew 15.4% and wireline IP data revenues, which were up 16.2%. This includes consumer U-verse services in broadband and on the business side, it includes services such as Virtual Private Networking, managed Internet services and hosting.

Our overall business trends continue to be quite stable. In enterprise, the economic effects we are seeing are primarily in voice usage and some data transport, but deal flow continues to be good. And our wholesale business continued its major turnaround, reflecting solid demand and incremental revenue from our IBM relationship. These positives more than offset pressures from wireline consumer voice.

Now this is the point in the webcast where I normally drill down on each of these areas starting with wireless, but I am pleased to say this quarter we have with us Ralph de la Vega who heads up our wireless and consumer operations. So I will let Ralph take you through the next several slides and then I will be back with comments on wireline results, margins and cash. Ralph?

RALPH DE LA VEGA, PRESIDENT & CEO, MOBILITY & CONSUMER MARKETS, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Rick and good morning to everyone on the call. I am very pleased to be here and what a great time to talk about our wireless business. Not just because we have terrific subscriber numbers to report, but even more important because I'm confident we are on a very solid path for continued good growth.

In June, we outlined for you our plan to accelerate growth in a new era of wireless data services. The foundation for that plan is our 3G network, which is now deployed in 324 US cities and performing very well. The catalyst for our plan was a breakthrough device, the iPhone 3G, which was launched as an AT&T exclusive on July 11. The results are on slide 7, but here are the key takeaways. Number one, iPhone 3G activations have exceeded our expectations and they have brought a significant halo effect, which has driven store traffic and helped sales of other devices.

Number two, the iPhone is delivering very high-quality customers with great ARPU and churn. In simple words, we are winning share at the high end. Number three, our wireless data revenue growth continues to be impressive, above 50% again this quarter and we are still early in the game. And number four, AT&T is on a very sound wireless technology path, which gives us incremental steps to further increase wireless speeds in a timely fashion on our way to 4G with seamless, backwards compatibility for customers.

So my message this morning is as follows. Our iPhone 3G initiative is doing everything we had hoped for and more and that is great for our business going forward and we have a very strong technology and network roadmap, which we believe offers tremendous opportunity for us.

Those are the headlines. Now let me talk about the detailed results, starting on slide 8. We launched the iPhone 3G on July 11, so we had 82 selling days in the quarter and in those 82 days, we activated 2.4 million iPhone 3G units, 40% of them to customers who were new to AT&T. This was 2.4 times our pace with the original iPhone through September of last year.

By comparison with the first iPhone a year ago, it took us nine months to reach the 2.4 million mark. The iPhone 3G helped drive 2 million total net adds in the quarter, 1.7 million of them postpaid, making this the best retail postpaid net add quarter in our Company's history. As a matter of fact, the third quarter of 2007 was the previous best postpaid net add quarter in our history. Our results this quarter beat that by 40%.

The iPhone's halo is also impressive. Same-store traffic was up 15% versus the third quarter last year and this is a very important point. Two-thirds, two-thirds of our third-quarter postpaid net adds chose integrated devices. That is a device that has either a QWERTY or a touchscreen keyboard and ARPUs for customers with very integrated devices are much higher. In fact, much higher than the average for our base.

We also had a very strong upgrade quarter. Meaning our customers are staying with us and renewing contracts in increasing numbers and over 40% of those upgrades were for customers purchasing an Internet data plan for the first time.

Slide 9 provides more background on the quality of customers we are winning with the iPhone 3G. On the average, the iPhone 3 generates subscriber ARPU that is more than 1.6 times the average of our postpaid base and as you may know, AT&T already has the industry's highest postpaid ARPU.

Based on our experience with this iPhone and the earlier version, churn is significantly better than the average for our postpaid base and also better than the average for other integrated devices. As a result, the net present value, or the NPV of an iPhone subscriber, is more than 2X the NPV of our average postpaid subscriber. As I said, the iPhone 3G is helping us win at the high end. This customer profile strongly supports the investment case for this initiative, which is to say that we are creating substantial long-term value for our Company.

Our overall wireless data growth trends are on slide 10. The total wireless data revenues were up more than 50% with strong gains in both consumer and business. Internet access revenues and multimedia messages volumes more than doubled a year-ago levels. And while this is rapid growth, frankly, we know we are in the early innings.

Here are a few key metrics. The percentage of our postpaid subscribers who have an integrated device doubled over the past year, but at this point, we are only at 22%. ARPU for customers with integrated devices are significantly better than the average of our postpaid base. The number of 3G devices in our base also has grown dramatically from around 7 million a year ago to more than 17 million at the end of the third quarter, but that is still a low percentage. We are seeing even more dramatic growth in laptop cards. The third quarter was our best LaptopConnect quarter ever and we have more than doubled our 3G LaptopConnect base over the last year.

Looking at wireless broadband connectivity in total, today, we have nearly 5.9 million broadband speed laptop cards in integrated devices in service. That reflects a net gain of roughly 2.8 million in the third quarter alone.

We have a great growth record in wireless data and we have even greater potential. Part of the potential comes from the cutting-edge devices that we are bringing to market. As you may have seen, or you will see today, we are going to announce the launch of the BlackBerry Bold as an AT&T exclusive beginning on November 4. Not only do we have the 3G iPhone, but now we also have the very best BlackBerry in our stores and customers are going to be thrilled with the new Bold. We expect it's going to do very well for us.

Beyond specific devices, I believe there is even greater potential ahead as we begin to address the marketplace with more integrated devices as the traditional boundaries between wireline and wireless get replaced by innovative services that delight customers in a seamless way. That is where our technology is headed. It is a direction that customers are moving and it is the thinking behind our decision to combine wireline consumer and wireless into a single organization.

The foundations for these innovations is a great network and slide 11 lays out our wireless network strategy. At AT&T, we have assembled a truly outstanding spectrum position. We have a 700 megahertz spectrum that is unencumbered from a regulatory standpoint. It covers 100% of the top 200 markets and across the top 100 US markets, we have a total average spectrum depth of 90 megahertz.

Today, we already have a premier wireless network with excellent speeds. AT&T is the only US carrier to have HSPA in a broadly deployed 3G network and we have the nation's fastest 3G network today that is based on independent tests. We have dramatically expanded 3G coverage. We currently cover 324 US markets and we continue to grow our coverage. And looking ahead, we have a lot of opportunity to further increase speeds on our way to 4G.

In the 2009 timeframe, the next step in our evolution is HSPA release 7, which could deliver peak speeds exceeding 20 megabits per second and this will be largely achieved through our software upgrade. And beyond that, we will move into LTE, which will allow us for backward compatibility to our GSM and HSPA networks, a great benefit to customers who can move up the speed chain with us as their wireless data needs evolve.

We have a solid foundation in GSM and high-quality spectrum and I feel very good about AT&T's wireless technology path. In fact, when you combine the quality and depth of our spectrum that we have, our clear technology path and our premier device lineup, I believe it is clear that we are in the best position of all US carriers to drive wireless data growth.

Slide 12 provides a look at wireless margins. Those of you who have followed our progress over the past few years know that our wireless growth initiatives work hand in hand with continuous improvements in our operating costs, in network, in customer service and in billing and those are ongoing efforts and we continue to deliver solid operational progress.

As you know, this quarter, that progress is masked by the investment we have made in the successful iPhone initiative and to a lesser degree by storm costs. Our reported service OIBDA margin was 33.5%. Adding back iPhone launch and hurricane-related costs would bring that up to approximately 42%. Given the huge response to the iPhone, which we expect will continue in the fourth quarter, it is reasonable to anticipate our full-year wireless EBITDA margin will be better than 37%.

It is clear that as upfront iPhone impacts lessen and recurring service revenues build, margins will expand and the iPhone 3G will be a terrific investment for us. First, it is an investment in high-value customers. The iPhone has helped us add share at the high end and the customers we are adding are high ARPU and low churn, the very best customers in the industry. And second, it is an investment that we are confident is one of our great opportunities and the best growth area in telecom and that is wireless data. With that overview, Rick, I will turn it back to you.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Ralph. And now let me turn to wireline, starting with business results on slide 13. Looking across our business markets, while we are obviously seeing some pressure from the macroeconomy, the trends overall are stable and all three parts of our business organization -- enterprise, regional and wholesale -- delivered sequential growth this quarter.

Enterprise revenues were up sequentially 8/10 of 1% and year-over-year, they were down 1.4%, reflecting some softness in voice volumes and some areas of data transport. We continued to deliver high teens growth in enterprise IP data revenues. Sales flow is solid and a number of major contracts signed in recent months are beginning to ramp.

Regional business revenues were up 2.3%, slightly better than in the second quarter. Regional business date revenue grew 8.4% year-over-year, led by Ethernet and IP data services, including managed Internet VPN hosting and related services. IP and Ethernet together now make up nearly 54% of our regional business data revenues and in the third quarter, they grew nearly 19%.

We are doing a number of things to differentiate our products for small and midsize business customers. We are offering attractive bundles and term contracts. We are helping these customers migrate to IP. We are doing much more with wireless, including offering family talk plans for small and midsize firms. Our U-verse platform for high-speed Internet access is now available to small businesses in nearly 70 US markets.

I would like to talk briefly about the turnaround we have seen in wholesale. The highlights are on slide 14. In 2007, we saw high single-digit declines in wholesale revenues as we absorbed the effects of the industry consolidation, the decline in UNIP wholesale lines industrywide and merger concessions that affected pricing.

Most of these impacts are behind us now and in this quarter, we returned to year-over-year wholesale revenue growth. This was our third consecutive quarter of sequential growth in wholesale revenues. Fundamental demand in the wholesale space is solid, driven by wireless carriers, Internet service providers, content providers and others.

Also last October, we formed an agreement with IBM that calls for AT&T to become its primary global network management services provider. We are steadily working our way through the operational steps to transfer network management and revenues and we expect further ramp in revenues from our IBM agreement in the fourth quarter.

Slide 15 shows regional consumer trends, which have not changed dramatically from recent quarters. The consumer space is going through a fundamental transformation from a dependence on legacy voice to connections driven by broadband, video and mobility. These areas are growing, offsetting in part revenue pressures from the economy and declines in voice lines.

Our consumer IP data revenues, that is broadband plus U-verse services, were up 19%. Boosted by these services, overall revenues per consumer household continued to grow. Our U-verse base continues to scale and our U-verse broadband attach rate continues to be high, greater than 85%. U-verse is also demonstrating that it has pull-through with voice. In areas where we have marketed U-verse for a period of time, we are seeing clear improvements in access line retention.

We are doing more with wireless in the consumer space, including selling more broadband wireless bundles. We are bundling wireline broadband with wireless LaptopConnect service, plus extensive Wi-Fi availability. As Ralph mentioned earlier, these combinations are logical and attractive to more and more customers and that is the thinking behind combining wireless and consumer markets, putting those customer-facing units into a single organization. It is a different way of looking at our business, but it is closer to how customers actually view and look at their service options.

For example, if you take a unified look at broadband and combine wireline broadband connections with wireless 3G laptop cards and wireless broadband speed connections via integrated devices, we had a net increase in broadband connections of 2.9 million in the third quarter, 148,000 wired broadband connections, plus 2.8 million additional wireless broadband connections.

The other key focus area for us in consumer, as you know, is to ramp U-verse and we continue to make good progress. Slide 16 has an update. Our U-verse network deployment now reaches 14 million living units and we have 781,000 subscribers in service and we are on track to exceed more than one million in service by year-end.

Penetration is growing nicely and we are getting to more than 10% penetration in less than 12 months. Customer satisfaction is high. As you may have seen a couple of weeks ago when the AT&T U-verse TV ranked highest in customer satisfaction among residential TV customers in the North Central, South and West regions in a JD Power study.

And we continue to add new services and features. Our migration to offering a second HD stream was completed in the third quarter. Every set-top box we install is HD-capable, so we can cost-effectively grow without CPE costs or technician dispatches as our customers adopt more HD. And the rollout of our Total Home DVR service is progressing nicely. We expect that to be completed by the end of this year.

With that look at operational results, let me close with a look at margins and cash flow. Margin comparisons are on slide 17. As Ralph outlined earlier in the wireless discussion, the major impacts on our margins this quarter are straightforward. Expense pressure from the iPhone initiative was approximately $900 million and hurricane impacts totaled approximately $145 million. Savings from previously outlined synergy and operational cost reduction initiatives are on track to deliver according to plan this year. And without the storm and iPhone impacts, consolidated margins would have been relatively flat with the second quarter this year.

Looking ahead to the remainder of the year, given stronger than expected iPhone sales and some further hurricane-related costs, we anticipate a full-year adjusted consolidated operating margin of approximately 23%.

Slide 18 provides a quick cash summary. Cash from operations totaled $9.3 billion in the quarter, nearly $23 billion year-to-date. Capital expenditures are on track with our target range, mid-teens as a percent of revenues. And we are on pace to deliver full-year free cash flow of approximately $14 billion. Our yields are attractive and our balance sheet is sound. Our debt metrics are solid and in the third quarter, we reduced debt by $3.4 billion. And for the balance of this year, we will use free cash flow after dividends to continue to reduce outstanding debt.

Moving to slide 19, I would sum up the quarter very simply. While the macroenvironment presents challenges, our business is more resilient than most. We have great assets; we are growing revenues. We continue to have opportunities to reduce costs. Our management team is experienced and tested and our execution continues to produce good results. Wireless subscriber growth and data growth are both very strong. The iPhone 3G is delivering even more than we expected with a very attractive customer profile. Business trends continue to be stable and U-verse TV is ramping as planned. We are strong financially and we have a great track record of returning value to shareowners. I think with that, Brooks, I believe Ralph and I are ready to stop now and take some questions.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thanks, Rick. Thanks, Ralph. Okay, Sandra, we are ready to open up for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). David Barden, Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey, guys, thanks for taking the question. I actually have two if I could. Rick, I definitely walked away from the second-quarter conversation looking into the second half with kind of a belief that the margin in wireline was a focus for the Company. There was the renewed Yahoo! agreement, the launch of the Shell contract, the networks contract, the improvement of the IBM contract, the restructuring of the organization, the headcount reductions and yet margins were down, even normalizing for the hurricane situation, somewhat sharply, more sharply than I expected them to be. And I guess it would be helpful if you could kind of talk about how that might look into the fourth quarter and how that rolls into your margin guidance for the year. And obviously with so many moving parts in the world these days, any color on '09 would be very helpful.

The second question I had was on the iPhone. You guys have obviously absorbed a lot of impact from the iPhone much more quickly than you thought. The original expectation was $0.10 to $0.12 in the second half, $0.10 to $0.12 in '09, breakeven in 2010. Now that you have kind of altered the initial part of that equation, could you give us your new look into how this changes into '09 and '10? Thank you very much.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. Good questions. First, on wireline margins, when we started this year, we said our guidance for the year is that we expected wireline margins to be pretty stable, in the mid-30% range and in any quarter in this business, you will see a little bit of movement up or down, but when you look across the first quarter, the second quarter and the third quarter, we have stayed pretty stable in the 35% range. And in fact, if you just adjust the wireline results for some of the hurricane costs in this quarter, we were at 35.1%.

So I think from a margin standpoint, wireline is meeting our expectations and when you step back from it, there are a lot of moving pieces in the wireline business. So for example, we do have some dilution from our ramp of U-verse and that dilution is a little higher in the third and fourth quarters of this year than in the first two quarters simply because we are driving more volume and more customer acquisitions.

You have the impact of transitions in our business as we are moving from and seeing declines in voice revenues really across the portfolio from consumer customers, as well as from the large enterprise customers. And we are replacing those revenues with new IP-based services, with broadband, U-verse, with VPN and in some cases, doing more managed services for large enterprise customers. Some of those agreements that you mentioned -- the Shell agreements and the IBM agreements for example -- we are in the early stages of those agreements where we are bringing business on and as part of that, we are bringing costs on as well to manage those networks. Over time in those agreements, our margins will improve as we rationalize the costs and as we drive more incremental business with those customers.

So those are some of the moving parts that we see in the business, but all in all, I think we are pleased with what we are seeing on wireline margins. Essentially, what we are doing is we are moving through the transition of these services. We are maintaining margins, keeping a close eye on costs. As you may have seen in this quarter for example, we reduced force by 4,000 and that is primarily in our wireline business. That is part of the consolidation, part of merger synergies, some of the reorganization impacts that we announced earlier this year.

Let me talk for a minute on iPhone dilution and clearly, the volumes were more significant this quarter and so the amount of dilution exceeded our expectations. One thing to note, and I think this is very positive, when we looked at the third and fourth quarter when we were announcing the iPhone deal, we expected good iPhone volumes, but we also expected volumes in some other devices potentially to be reduced as a result. That is not what we saw this quarter. What we saw was stronger iPhone volumes than we expected and then when you look at both gross adds for news customers, as well as upgrades of existing customers on all other devices, excluding the iPhone 3G, those volumes were flat to up in the third quarter. So we saw a nice halo effect, as Ralph talked about, with other devices.

As we go forward into the fourth quarter, I think this is very good news for us, particularly in this economic environment, we continue to see stronger store traffic than we typically would this time of year. Store traffic is up versus what it was last October as an example. And I think volumes will continue to be good.

It is hard to predict the fourth quarter because so much of the volume in the fourth quarter frankly happens between Thanksgiving and the end of the year. But I would tell you that our expectation is less dilution from the iPhone in the fourth quarter than the third, but probably a little more than we would have expected when we gave you guidance prior to the iPhone launch. And we will see where we end up with in this quarter in terms of volumes and so forth and then we will be able to give you better guidance as far as 2009. But clearly more customer growth upfront is better for us as we go into 2009 and 2010.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, guys. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good morning. A quick question on the wireline side. It seemed like the economy slowed it seemed fairly dramatically in September, maybe the latter part of September and I think the enterprise numbers that you guys posted today were a little bit weaker than we thought in terms of the revenue growth. Did you see any sort of real change in the business in September and maybe into October that would suggest that the overall trend is going to stay say more negative than the previous expectations that you were going to start to see some real growth in that business? And concurrent with that, you didn't really see much of a change. If anything, you saw some improvement in the in-region business segments. So if you could just talk about how the economy is affecting those businesses and what the outlook is for that, that would be great, Rick.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, John. I think, first of all, I would say, overall, as we said in the presentation, business revenues are pretty stable. When you put together wholesale, regional business and enterprise business and put the three together and look at our total wireline business revenues, they were up year-over-year about 0.3%. And in this environment overall, that is -- I think that is pretty good.

On the enterprise side, as I mentioned in our presentation, I think we are happy with what we are seeing in the marketplace in terms of deal flow, in terms of deals that we are winning and contracts we are retaining.

What we did see in the third quarter and we saw a little bit of this in the second quarter as well is some softness in usage-based services, primarily in long distance and we saw it somewhat in some softening of transport services.

And in addition to that, there is one other factor I didn't mention in the presentation, but year-over-year, our CPE sales and our equipment sales in enterprise are down, which, from my standpoint, is not a big concern. We are selling CPE only really to the extent that it facilitates sales of network services and it tends to be fairly low margin business. But if you exclude CPE, then enterprise was still a little negative, but only about 0.5%.

I think the difference between what our expectations would have been early this year and we are seeing now primarily has to do with a little bit of softness in long distance, a little bit of softness in transport volumes. We have -- as we went through the quarter, we have about mid-teens percent of our business in financial, in the financial industry and we probably saw a little bit of impact there.

But as you mentioned, at the same time, we are seeing a little better growth actually in small and medium business. And in fact, what was interesting to me is we are seeing that primarily on the small end, our smaller regional customers. And I think that is -- in this environment, I think that is very encouraging, particularly with cable working to enter that space.

All in all though as we go into the fourth quarter, I would tell you that we would expect to see trends that look similar to what you have seen this quarter. I think pretty stable overall, probably a little bit better growth in wholesale as we continue to ramp our agreement with IBM. I think you will see probably similar trends in enterprise and regional.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley,

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning. Rick, you made a comment earlier on about an increasing dependence on subscription-based revenues and that may be a little bit of a difference from the last downturn we experienced. Can you sort of characterize across some of your major business units how much of your revenues are really monthly recurring charges or sort of fixed-price versus some of the usage-based models we have seen -- we saw in the industry within the past? And then if you can also talk about how you are thinking about free cash flow deleveraging versus dividends or buybacks over the balance of the year. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Simon. I don't have exact numbers in terms of breaking down revenues by subscription-based or usage-based, but if you think about the major categories of customers, starting with consumer, it is -- increasingly consumers are buying bundles of services from us and those tend to be more fixed in nature, whether you're talking video, broadband or even on the voice side, increasingly customers are buying a fixed access line cost plus a fixed long-distance package.

When you move into wireless, certainly versus where we were five years ago, 10 years ago, the revenues are moving, again, much more toward subscription-based services. So on the voice side, voice overage minutes have been, for several years now, have been declining as a percent of ARPU and customers are tending to gravitate toward fixed-price voice bundles that allow them to operate and not incur substantial overages.

And on the data side if you think about where we are going, particularly with the integrated devices, the very first thing that happens when someone buys an integrated device like an iPhone or a BlackJack or a BlackBerry is to move to generally an unlimited type of data plan, because they simply want to avoid the overages.

Where we do have a little more exposure on usage based is still in our -- some of our business customers and enterprise customers and wholesale where it is usage based on primarily voice minutes and long-distance revenues.

I think in terms of free cash flow, you know, our plan right now for the rest of the year as I mentioned in the presentation is to continue to use available free cash flow to reduce debt. I have to tell you I would love to be in the market buying shares at this point and at these prices and at these values. However, given the environment we are operating in, I think it is the prudent thing to do for us to manage cash very carefully and to use cash flow to pay down debt, and pay down debt as it matures going forward in the near term. I just think that is the prudent way to operate the business in this environment.

SIMON FLANNERY: And then on dividends?

RICK LINDNER: Dividends, as you know, we go through a dividend discussion and decision with our board in December, so that is coming up in the next 60 days or so. I don't think it is appropriate for me to comment on that at this point, given that we haven't had those discussions with the board yet. But I would just again offer and remind that we have got a very good track record in terms of good times and bad of supporting and growing the dividend and returning cash to shareowners, and nothing has changed in that regard.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. The consumer electronics industries seems to have had a real downturn around mid-September, just judging by the data reported by MasterCard and Best Buy and others. Did you really -- did you see any change in the flow in your stores for the iPhone and for smartphones in general starting around mid-September and into early October? And as you look forward into the fourth quarter, what are the things you are looking for to help you sort of adjust as you prepare inventory levels and that sort of thing for the holiday season?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Craig, this is Ralph de la Vega. Let me give you some facts around that, and these are very encouraging facts. Traditionally, what happens in October in the wireless industry, at least from our perspective, is that you have a downturn in store traffic. Traffic begins to pick up in mid-November and it really goes strong in December.

What we are seeing in October of '08 versus September of '08 is an increase in traffic. Our same-store traffic is up 4%, and total traffic is up 7% versus a month ago, and that is just through half the month. So I have to caution that this is through about half the month of what we are seeing.

If you compare our October traffic through the middle of the month to the same period last year, our same-store traffic is up 12% and our total store traffic is up 25%, which highlights the point that Rick was making, is that iPhone 3G is providing a good traffic driver into our stores. And then once customers get into our stores, we have a great portfolio of products which just got better today after the announcement of the Bold. But we have also put in a great portfolio of low-end devices which in particular in today's economy is a very key point.

We announced earlier that we have four low-end texting devices, the Pantech Matrix, the Samsung Propel, the Pantech Slate, and the UTS Quickfire. All of those devices are less than $100 and the Pantech is $79, the Samsung is $79 and the Pantech Slate is $49. So we have choice for every customer that walks into our store. We have the very best keyboard that is a touchscreen from the iPhone and now we have, if you really want a physical keyboard with a BlackBerry Bold, I think we have the very best device in the market today, a whole range of low-end texting devices so that we can close the sale and, believe it or not, our close rates are up this month compared to last month.

So despite the economy, I feel very confident that we have a great portfolio, a great marketing strategy and a great distribution strategy that is going to lead us to see continued good growth despite the economic conditions, at least in wireless.

CRAIG MOFFETT: That is good to hear, Ralph. Can you talk about your inventory levels and your inventory planning for the holidays?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, we are very carefully looking at the inventory levels and of course, ordering only what we think we can sell. And so we are being very careful, but we have a great track record of being able to deliver the sales, make sure that we don't run out, but at the same time, don't end up with excess inventory. So we are paying a lot more attention to that and making sure we only have in inventory that which we are certain we are going to sell. And that is just prudent management given the economic situations that we have. But the traffic in our stores, the close rates and what we are seeing in the middle of October at least is encouraging given the economic climate that we are facing.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, JPMorgan.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks, guys. First, I guess for Ralph on the wireless side, you talked about the customers coming in with integrated devices having much higher ARPU than the average of the base. Could you give us a sense for what the delta might be between the average integrated device versus an iPhone? And secondly, I guess for Rick on the CapEx side or the free cash flow side rather, how much of the delta in free cash flow guidance is related to just pure margin pressure from iPhone-related pressures versus capital spending? Thanks, guys.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, in terms of the actual integrated devices, I think when you average them all, they are comparable or slightly below the iPhone. It varies by device, but both are significantly above just what we regularly call a feature phone and what we are finding out is that as customers use the applications on these integrated devices, like Rick was saying, they want the assurance of not having overages. And so we are seeing them sign up to data plans in record numbers and that is driving the 50% data revenue growth despite everything else that we have seen. So both the iPhone and integrated devices are very comparable with the iPhone, in certain cases, being a little bit higher.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, Ralph, just to follow up on that. The non-iPhone-integrated/laptop card breakdown for the quarter, there was I think 400,000 in total. Can you give us any sense for the breakdown between cards versus devices?

RALPH DE LA VEGA: We are not providing that breakdown at this point, Mike. But if you look at the volume of data cards that we have sold, it is on a ramp. We basically doubled the number of subscribers we have had on data cards and now that we have the, what are called, the dongles that just go into USB ports, those are flying. We saw a huge demand on those in the South Texas area after Hurricane Ike and that is how people were basically running their business and doing the insurance adjustments. I was at those stores and insurance adjusters were coming in and buying them up so they could communicate. So we think we have a lot of upside on the wireless data cards and we think it is a growth opportunity for us way into the future.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Thanks, Ralph.

RICK LINDNER: Mike, on CapEx and free cash flow, yes, there has been a number of changes since the beginning of this year. I think the most significant changes in terms of our plans as we have gone through the year from a free cash flow and CapEx perspective have been around wireless and the iPhone.

You have seen the numbers from a dilution standpoint, which are essentially cash numbers. And then on top of that, as we went through the first half of this year, we made some conscious decisions and reinforced those actually when we launched the iPhone to ramp up the investment in our 3G network to provide more coverage. We are on track to being about 350 metropolitan areas by the end of this year, 99 of the top 100 markets and so more coverage, as well as more capacity to handle the data traffic growth that we are seeing.

And in addition to that, we made the step to spend some additional capital to improve the quality of that network by beginning to take 3G into our 850 spectrum. And so that has had some impact this year on CapEx.

In addition, the hurricane costs this quarter, plus some additional costs we will see next quarter, not just in the income statement, but also some incremental capital expenditures for hurricane restoration, will impact results. I think the capital piece of that probably will end up being in the $60 million to $70 million range. Those are the major drivers in changes and free cash flow.

Over and above that, I think we have done a pretty good job in terms of, number one, any softness in wireline revenues, particularly in voice. We have done a pretty good job of taking costs out of the business to support that. And so I think the two things, the iPhone and the hurricane, both the income impacts, as well as additional capital expenditures, are the primary difference.

We are also working very hard right now scrubbing capital investment across the portfolio because I think it is important at this time to be conservative with capital investment and so we are scrubbing that portfolio pretty hard to help fund these initiatives.

Still, at the end of the day, I think it is important to note that this year with the costs we have incurred for the iPhone launch, building the 3G network, some associated costs with the hurricanes, we are still going to be at 150% or so coverage of our dividend with free cash flow. So still very strong in terms of free cash flow and very strong financially.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks for the detail, Rick.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Barclays Capital.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Yes, thanks for taking the question. You have got a lot of upward pressure on wireless ARPU from all the integrated devices, but we didn't see really any year-over-year improvement in ARPU and I was just wondering if you could talk about the downward pressures that are occurring and how you sort of expect long-term trends for ARPU to play out? Thanks.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Tom, this is Ralph. Let me talk to that. First of all, the upward pressures that you are seeing are not fully manifested in the third-quarter results because if you look at the average number of subscribers that we added with the iPhone 3G, they are not enough to impact the huge base of customers that we have. We anticipate that that aspect will get better and better and you will see more impact from the iPhone 3G.

On the regular base, what we are seeing are the same things on the wireless side, but to a lesser extent that Rick talked about. We are seeing customers watch their bundles to make sure they don't exceed their plans. We are seeing a little bit of a downturn on international roaming and long distance, but those are the only two areas that we have seen really any ARPU weakness. And it is being more than offset by the growth in data and we anticipate that the iPhone 3G ARPU lift will be seen in the future quarters to come and I think we have a lot of upside on that.

TOM SEITZ: Great. Thank you very much.

RICK LINDNER: Tom, one thing I would add to that is remember in the numbers when you look at flat ARPU year-over-year, that is across our entire base of customers and it is impacted by the fact that our resale base has grown over this past year, so it is a mix issue. When you look at postpaid customers, postpaid ARPU is up 2.6%. That is where we are seeing the strength in data. It is partially offset by a little bit of softness in some of the roaming and LD revenues that Ralph talked about. But still up 2.6% on postpaid I think is a good sign and I think it will compare favorably to what you see across the industry.

TOM SEITZ: Thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investments.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENTS: Hi, thanks for the question. Good morning. Just a couple follow-ups. First with regards to the comments about store traffic, I was curious if there was a way to think about that with respect to the new customers to AT&T that are coming into the store versus those that are coming into upgrade devices.

And the second question I had was just going on to the wireline side of the business or actually it may have even been the consolidated part of the business where in the beginning of the year, you outlined some significant cost-cutting opportunities in terms of I think a combination of systems and headcount reductions and you put some numbers around that. Can you give us an update in terms of where those cost-cutting initiatives are in terms of where you expected them to be? And can you give us some potential sizing for the '09 cost-cutting opportunities? I know you're in a preliminary stage, but some order of magnitude would be great. Thank you.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Mike, this is Ralph. Let me try to take a stab at the first portion of that. We don't have data that we can share with you at this point on the mix of the traffic between new and upgrades. But I can tell you, if you look at the third quarter and assume that that trend continues in the fourth, in the third, we had not only record net adds, but record gross adds and so we see a healthy traffic both on the new, as well as the upgrades. And so I think it is a combination of those two, but we don't have anything that we can break it out for you right now. I just took the stuff that we have in the middle of October just to give you an insight for what is happening overall, but we don't have that further broken down between upgrades and new adds.

RICK LINDNER: Mike, on cost-cutting, when we started this year, we told you our expectation was that the combination of merger synergies and other cost initiatives would ramp up to an annual cost benefit of about $6 billion. And that was up from just under $4 billion last year, so an incremental roughly a little over $2 billion. And we are on track to -- we are on track to hit that number. I think the merger initiatives are right on track, maybe a little ahead of schedule. I think the other cost initiatives are doing very well. We have got some pluses and minuses there, but overall, we are going to be in that $6 billion range.

As we look ahead to next year, our plan was to add an additional $1 billion through, again, further progress, really the completion, if you will, of the merger synergies from the three large transactions we did over the last few years and some additional work on just operational cost initiatives. And we are looking at a number of opportunities now, some associated with the reorganization we just announced, which I think will be additive to that number.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Thanks, guys. One question on the consumer front, one on business maybe. On consumer, are you seeing maybe any differences between the lower credit quality subscribers in wireless or wireline in terms of maybe you have churn or just flow of traffic in incoming calls? And then on the business front, Rick, why do you think the small business is holding up? And some of your peers are talking about some pricing pressure on the enterprise front. Just curious if you are seeing anything there. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: I will let Ralph comment in terms of what we may be seeing in wireless in terms of lower credit customers, but I would tell you that, Tim, overall, first of all, our customer base is a pretty solid base from a credit standpoint. We just went through -- we went through a pretty detailed review this quarter because of what was going on in the economy of our receivables and reserves across all the business units. And it didn't result in any increase in reserves associated with bad debts. And in fact, kind of interestingly on the consumer side, our access line disconnects due to nonpay were down year-over-year about 4%. So I think that speaks to the fact that we have maintained pretty consistent credit standards. Ralph, I don't know if you have any color to add on the wireless.

RALPH DE LA VEGA: Yes, I do, Tim. Given all the volumes that we have seen and the traffic that has been running through our stores, we have kept a really close eye on what is happening to credit, low credit customers and specifically to bad debt. The good news is that bad debt in October and how we looked at it from the third quarter is essentially flat and it has actually improved year-over-year slightly. So we have pretty much held our credit standards throughout this crisis and that has led to very good results. I am just pleased to tell you that our credit standards are holding up well. They are driving considerable volume, but it is absolutely the right volume and it is not having an impact at all on bad debt levels. So I am very, very pleased.

RICK LINDNER: I think, Tim, to your question on the regional business revenues and the small/medium businesses there in particular, we are pleased with the results, particularly in this environment. And I think we have done a lot of things as we talked about over this past year, including taking a little pain ourselves by going to that base, signing up customers on term contracts, making sure those customers are on the right product bundles and offering them some incentives to move to term contracts. And I think that -- while that produced some pain over the last year in terms of some declines in the rate of revenue growth, I think that has positioned us pretty well going forward.

And at the same time, I think we have got -- frankly, we have got the best, most comprehensive package and bundle of services for small/medium business customers and so I think that has helped us maintain that growth rate. And the growth there is -- voice this quarter is pretty flat, but the growth there has been on the data side and particularly in, as we talked about in the presentation, Ethernet and IP data revenues, which were up 19%.

On the enterprise side, the pricing there I think is always aggressive in that environment, both wireless and wireline. I think, anecdotally, we saw a little more pricing pressure from some competitors in EBS on the wireless front this quarter, but overall, I think the environment there continues to be as it has been. I don't see significant other changes there and as we said, the revenue results reflect a little bit of softness in some usage-based revenues, but it is more that than it is pricing changes impacting it at this point.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Sandra, I think we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks for taking the question. I will just keep it to one topic. Rick, if we can just hit pensions, maybe an update on sort of plan performance to date. And then maybe an early look into EPS impacts next year and then finally on this topic, just if you can talk about the overall funding position. Obviously, you came into the year in a real position of strength with substantial overfunding, what we see as sort of an aggregate of a lot of difference sort of state plans I guess that are going on. So I am just wondering if you can comment on any expectation of contributions you might have to make into '09. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jason. It is a timely topic. Our pension fund has incurred losses this year just like virtually all other investors and all other funds have. Those losses in the funds will get, under generally accepted accounting principles, get recognized in the results over time and there will be some EPS impacts from pension costs or increased benefit costs as a result of the losses this year as we go into 2009. I really can't give you a range of magnitude at this point because the impact is relatively volatile as the results this year and the market results have been fairly volatile. So we will certainly move through the end of this year, hopefully get a little bit of lift in the markets between now and end of year and then when we provide guidance, we will be able to give you definitive numbers in terms of the impacts. But you should expect some pressure in benefit costs from losses in the pension and OPEB funds. There will be some offset there most likely because discount rates at the same time are likely to be higher for next year if the interest rate environment stays in the range that it currently is.

In terms of funding, as you said, we entered the year in a very strong funding position in our pension plan and again, we will have to see how results play out over the balance of this year, but I don't expect, at this point, that we will have any funding requirements in 2009. But obviously, it will be dependent upon results through the balance of this year.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great, thanks, Rick.

RICK LINDNER: Folks, before we end the call this morning, I would like to leave you today with just one final thought. These are obviously challenging times and they are challenging for companies across all industries and in this environment, we believe it is prudent to be conservative to manage and reduce expenses, to be disciplined with capital investment and to preserve cash.

At the same time, I think it is also important that we take advantage of clear growth opportunities when they present themselves and that we position the Company for the future and one of these, for us, one of these clear opportunities is our exclusive with Apple to distribute the iPhone 3G. And I know some of you will be concerned with the dilution we experienced this quarter with the new iPhone launch, but I believe our results will bear it out that it is an important investment in our future.

This investment funded the acquisition of nearly a million high-end iPhone customers that are new to AT&T and we will enjoy those customer relationships for years to come. It also allowed us to upgrade some 1.4 million existing customers to this device and virtually every one of them will increase their spend with AT&T. They will download applications. They will utilize capabilities provided by the iPhone combined with our 3G network and they will be long-term AT&T customers.

The dilution from this investment will fall next quarter and again in the following quarter as the benefits of this customer base are realized and the returns and the margins will grow. I know I speak for Ralph when I tell you that we are confident the investment made this quarter will produce terrific returns and generate significant value in the future.

And devices like the iPhone combined with AT&T's spectrum position and technology platform position us to lead in the fastest-growing segment of telecom and that is wireless data. So again, folks, I want to thank you for your attention this morning and as always, we thank you for your interest in AT&T.

BROOKS MCCORCLE: Thank you, all. Have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ghurr : Storms | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081029e4am001ea
  


 HD
 Q1  2008  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,951 words
   PD
22 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T first-quarter 2008 earnings release conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

   TD
RICH DIETZ, SVP, IR, AT&T: Thank you, Christine, and good morning to everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter conference call. As always, it is great to have you with us.

Joining me on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

As you have seen, we had a strong quarter, a good start to the year, and the purpose of this call is to provide additional background on our results. Our release, investor briefing, supplementary information, presentation slides are all available on the Investor Relations page of AT&T's website. That's www.att.com/investor.relations.

Before we get started, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our website at att.com.

Okay, with that covered, let me take you through our first-quarter EPS comparisons, which are on slide 4. This marks AT&T's 12th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS. Reported EPS this quarter was $0.57. That is up 26.7% versus the year-ago quarter. We had $0.13 of noncash merger costs and $0.04 for charges related to a recently announced force reduction. The result is an adjusted EPS of $0.74. That is up 13.8% from year-ago results.

With that as a background, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SEVP AND CFO, AT&T: Thanks, Rich. Good morning, everybody. It is great to have this opportunity to talk with you again.

Let me begin with the major highlights from the quarter, which are covered on slide 6. We had a good first quarter, with excellent momentum in key growth areas. Our cost initiatives are on track, and our operational results reinforce the confidence we have in the business going forward.

We said we would ramp consolidated revenue growth this year, and we delivered in the first quarter, with pro forma growth of 4.6%. Wireless revenue growth continues to be strong, up 18%, and our wireless EBITDA service margin stepped up to 41.7%.

On top of that, we're very pleased with the wireless spectrum acquisitions we have made. The Aloha transaction, which we completed in February, and the FCC auction combined to give AT&T a premier spectrum position, with 700 MHz coverage for 100% of the nation's top 200 markets, and that is a terrific foundation for future wireless growth.

Another major highlight for us this quarter is enterprise. We continue to win contracts such as the recently announced deal with Shell, and enterprise revenue growth continues to ramp. We also continue to deliver solid double-digit growth in broadband revenues, and broadband net adds were strong in the first quarter at nearly 500,000. Our U-verse TV service is ramping nicely and is on plan. U-verse video ads were 148,000 for the quarter, bringing the base to nearly 400,000.

As we drive these growth initiatives, we're also returning substantial cash to shareowners. Our share buybacks in the first quarter topped 4 billion.

That is a quick overview of some first-quarter highlights. What I would like to do now is drill down a bit and step you through our results in a little more detail.

Slide 7 provides a look at consolidated revenue growth. On a reported basis, revenues were up 6.1%, and on a pro forma basis, when you take out the merger accounting effects on our 2007 directory revenues, our consolidated revenues were up 4.6%.

As you see on this chart, those growth rates over the past year are on a very good trajectory. The drivers are strong wireless growth, positive growth in enterprise, a substantial improvement this quarter in wholesale, and stable regional consumer and business revenue trends.

The next slide shows our wireless revenue growth trajectory. Service revenues were up more than 17%. Total wireless revenues were up better than 18% to $11.8 billion in the quarter. And wireless now represents 38.5% of AT&T's total revenue.

Over the past year, subscribers were up 14.7%, with 7.4 million net adds. Our postpaid ARPU was up this quarter nearly 5%, and we have now posted seven consecutive quarters of year-over-year ARPU gains. This reflects outstanding growth in wireless data, up more than 57%. Wireless data now account for 21.5% of our total wireless service revenues, and it is still in the early part of it growth trajectory.

Wireless revenue growth also reflects strength in prepaid. Our first-quarter prepaid revenues were up more than 25% year over year. And something that may be a bit surprising to you -- data growth is also an important part of prepaid. In the first quarter, we had year-over-year prepaid data revenue growth above 50%, and data makes up nearly 20% of our prepaid ARPU.

Slide 9 shows our first-quarter subscriber metrics, which reflect good execution in a number of areas, including network performance, distribution, and innovation in services and devices. We continue to generate very strong flow share. First-quarter gross adds were 5 million. We had 1.3 million net adds. That was up nearly 9% versus the year-ago quarter. Net adds were impacted by the fact that we executed the full shutdown of our TDMA network in late February, and that reduced subscribers by nearly 330,000.

Total churn, which blends postpaid, reseller and prepaid, was flat. Postpaid churn was down 10 basis points versus the year-ago first quarter and flat with fourth quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had over 71 million wireless subscribers.

In addition to subscribers, the other powerful wireless driver is growth and data. Slide 10 provides an update. Year-over-year wireless data revenue growth was over 57%, and this growth reflects strong increases in both consumer and business data usage, and it comes from increased demand across our product portfolio.

Internet access revenues were up more than 100%. E-mail growth exceeded 60%. And revenues from data access and media bundles were also strong. And we are still in the early part of the adoption curve. Penetration of 3G handsets and LaptopConnect Cards is climbing. Adoption of smartphones and integrated devices is on the rise. But at this point, we have only 11 million 3G devices in service, and only 16% of AT&T's postpaid subscribers have integrated devices.

The ARPUs for customers with integrated devices are nearly double the Company average. So we continue to have great upside potential in wireless data.

Wireless data is also the major driver behind the spectrum acquisitions we have made. We put a summary together for you on slide 11. AT&T has a premier spectrum position, and most importantly, a clear, logical technology roadmap.

First, let's look at spectrum. Putting together the 700 MHz spectrum we acquired from Aloha Partners and the B block spectrum we acquired in the recent auction, the spectrum from these two sources is contiguous and unencumbered from a regulatory standpoint. Our 700 MHz spectrum will cover 100% of the top 200 markets and 87% of the U.S. population. Across the top 100 U.S. markets, we will have a total average spectrum depth of 90 MHz.

But equally important, we have a clear, logical technology path to LTE and 4G. Today, we are at 3G, with HSPA Release 6. This provides users a DSL-like data experience. We are doing a couple of things this year to enhance the 3G experience. First, we are expanding our footprint. We will be in nearly 350 metros, including all of the top 100, by the end of this year. In addition, now that we have shut down our TDMA network, we are expanding the use of 850 MHz spectrum for 3G, which will significantly enhance service.

And we are completing the deployment of the nation's first high-speed uplink packet access network, which enables laptop users to more quickly send large files and access applications.

In the 2009 timeframe, the next step in our evolution is HSPA Release 7, which we expect will deliver peak speeds of over 20 megabits per second. And beyond the 2010 timeframe, we expect to move into LTE, with peak speeds as high as 100 megabits.

These steps are logical. They are all building on the same technology foundation. LTE will allow for backward compatibility to our GSM and our HSPA networks, and that will be a great benefit to our customers. So as we look forward to the future of wireless, we're excited by the opportunities, we are thrilled with our spectrum position, and we're confident that our technology path is the right one.

Let me conclude my wireless comments with a quick look at margins. There is an update on slide 12. Our adjusted wireless operating margin was 29.8%, up 430 basis points, and our service EBITDA margin was 41.7%, up 280 basis points.

More than three years ago now, we said we expected to drive wireless margins to the 40%-plus range. And now, more than 1600 basis points later, we are still delivering on that target. There are a number of margin expansion drivers. We continue to improve our network cost structure, we continue to lower LD interconnect and roaming costs, and we continue to improve operations to realize efficiencies in areas such as billing and customer care.

It is important to note that we achieved this margin expansion with a high level of gross adds, 5 million in the quarter, and with a more expensive mix of handsets as more customers choose integrated devices.

Well, that is an overview of our wireless results. Let me turn now to enterprise, which is another key growth area for us. The details are on slide 13.

A little over two years ago, when we acquired the former AT&T, enterprise revenues were declining in the high single digits. Since then, we have seen substantial improvement. As you see on this chart, in the first quarter, enterprise revenues grew 1.2% and service revenues ramped to 2.1% growth. Demand is solid, particularly for IP services, which include virtual private networks, managed Internet services and hosting. IP services grew nearly 23%.

We are winning contracts, most notably our five-year agreement with Royal Dutch Shell. This is one of the largest commercial contracts ever signed by AT&T and the largest agreement signed with a company headquartered in Europe. This follows other large wins in the past few months, including agreements to provide telecommunications services for Starbucks while expanding our Wi-Fi network to include their stores.

Another encouraging data point in the first quarter is the improvement that we are seeing in wholesale trends. Slide 14 has the details. Like enterprise a couple of years ago, we have seen high-single-digit declines in wholesale over the past several quarters. That had to do with consolidation in the industry, the decline in UNI-P wholesale lines industrywide, and merger concessions that affected pricing.

The good news is that in the first quarter, we saw significant improvement in year-over-year wholesale revenue growth rates and sequential growth in total wholesale revenues.

As you know, last October we formed an alliance with IBM that calls for AT&T to become their primary global network management services provider. As a result, we expect to receive up to $5 billion of additional revenues over the five-year term of the agreement, largely in the wholesale customer category at the outset, and in enterprise as we build the business.

These revenues had a small positive effect on first-quarter results, but the bulk of the improvement reflects solid fundamental demand in the space, driven by growth in wireless, and by reduced impacts from carrier consolidation. We expect these fundamental trends to continue, and the revenue impacts from our agreement with IBM will grow as the year progresses.

We also continue to deliver solid results in regional business, as shown on slide 15. Total regional business revenues were up 2.6%, and service revenues, which exclude CPE sales, were up 3.4%. Revenues from small and midsize firms continue to be solid, up approximately 5%, in line with recent quarters.

Our regional business voice revenues continue to grow in the low single digits, and business data revenues grew 6.3%, with mid-single-digit growth in data transport and better than 15% growth in IP data, including VPN, broadband and managed Internet service.

There are a few noteworthy initiatives we have undertaken in this space. First, we are bundling more aggressively, and that includes wireless. You may have noticed that last week we launched a new wireless plan for small and midsize firms called BusinessTalk, which brings the FamilyTalk concept to business customers.

Second, we are helping customers migrate to IP, and that is reflected in our IP growth rates, which have accelerated in this space, and in a new product we launched in the first quarter called Business in a Box, which pulls together Voice-over-IP functionality, VPN and other capabilities designed for small and midsize firms.

And third, as our U-verse network deployment expands and we reach more businesses with that network, we will be bringing U-verse-based services to business customers.

Slide 16 shows regional consumer trends. And consistent with results over the past several quarters, overall revenues are flat as we transform this business and transition our customer base to our U-verse platform. Consumer ARPU continues to grow, up 5.4% in the first quarter, driven by broadband and TV.

As you see on this chart, our consumer data revenue growth, which combines broadband and U-verse services, grew 18.5%.

Consumer wireline is a business moving through a transition, from traditional wired voice to an IP model focused on broadband and video, with wireless playing an emerging role. We are pushing to that new model fairly quickly. As voice lines decline, we are aggressively ramping U-verse TV, which has a very high broadband attach rate. We are selling more broadband and wireless bundles. And we have greatly expanded our Wi-Fi reach, with some 17,000 U.S. locations following the Starbucks agreement, and that creates a richer experience for our broadband customers.

A key foundation for these initiatives is our U-verse deployment, and we have an update on slide 17. Our network deployment is on schedule now, reaching more than 9 million living units, and we have launched services in 43 markets across the country. The service is working great, our install rates have climbed, installation times are improving, and customer response continues to be positive.

Plus, we continue to add new services and new features. For example, we have rolled out U-verse Voice service now in a number of markets. And starting in the second quarter, we will launch the second HD stream. Remember that every set-top box we have installed is HD-capable. So we can cost-effectively grow without CPE costs or technician dispatches as our customers adopt more HD.

In areas where we have been marketing for some time, we're getting to more than 10% penetration in less than 12 months. We have added 148,000 U-verse TV subscribers in the second quarter, and that is a good step up from the preceding quarter, bringing our in-service total to nearly 400,000.

As we ramp new growth platforms, we are also taking costs out of our operations and expanding margins. Slide 18 has an update. Our first-quarter adjusted operating income margin was 24.6%. That is up year over year and it is up sequentially. Consolidated margins are supported by continued improvement in wireless, as well as merger synergies and other cost initiatives.

In recent weeks, we have begun to restructure our regional wireline operations. As many of you know, historically these organizations have been organized following the original geographic boundaries of the regional Bell operating companies. We are now moving to a single national approach, which will allow us to streamline staff functions and implement consistent best practices across our local consumer business and network operations.

Cost reduction and productivity improvement is a continuous process for us. With our scale in a technology-based industry, there will be ongoing opportunities to operate better and more efficiently.

I would like to close with just a few comments on cash flow on slide 19. In the first quarter, we returned substantial cash to investors, $2.4 billion in dividends and $4.1 billion in share repurchase. Our free cash flow yield has grown substantially over the past year, and we continue to have a strong balance sheet. We targeted a debt-to-EBITDA multiple in the 1.3 to 1.5 range, although we're comfortable with being slightly above that level at times, as we were in the first quarter. But we do expect to move back within the range by the end of this year.

With that, let me close with a quick recap. Again, I feel we had a strong first quarter and a good start to the year, and we are delivering on the targets we outlined for you. We have solid momentum across key growth areas of the business -- wireless, enterprise, broadband and video. As a result, our revenue growth has ramped and our margins have expanded.

We are pleased to report to you consistent double-digit growth in adjusted EPS. We continue to deliver strong free cash flow, which allows us to return cash to shareowners while investing in the future of this business.

With that, Rich, I think I will stop here, and why don't we open it up for questions.

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thanks very much, Rick. Christine, we are now ready to begin the question-and-answer session, if you would initiate that, please.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: A couple of quick questions on the wireline margins. They were under a little bit more pressure than we had expected, but I also noticed that you didn't normalize for the usual integration expenses or severance costs. Could you talk about any issues that may be involved there with the lower margins? And then are you still sticking to the guidance for flat wireline margins year over year? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: As we told you when we met in December at the analyst conference, we expected wireline margins this year to be relatively flat, and that would put wireline EBITDA margins in the mid-30% range. We were in that range, but at the lower end of it this quarter at about 34.2%.

A couple of comments I would offer on it -- first, the one that you mentioned, over the last couple of years, since the AT&T and BellSouth mergers, as you know, we have incurred, in accessing merger synergies, there's also some integration costs involved in that, and we have normalized those costs.

At the end of 2007 and going into 2008, we felt that -- we're two years into the AT&T merger and we're a year into the BellSouth merger -- we thought it was appropriate to stop normalizing the integration costs, even though we knew we would continue to have some costs that would impact us in 2008, but it had ramped down substantially. We did have some costs in the first quarter, primarily related to the BellSouth acquisition and the movement of traffic, largely data traffic, from other facilities onto our own facilities.

In addition, in the first quarter, we did have some impacts from weather and some storms in the Midwest and the Southwest. And whenever we have that, it tends to increase overtime rates as well as material costs.

But as we look forward in the balance of the year, first of all, we will continue to increase the amount of benefits that we will get from merger synergies and other cost initiatives, and we will see some benefits as we get particularly in the second half of the year from the force reductions we are doing now in the wireline business.

On top of that, the new agreement we have with Yahoo! will begin to generate some lift versus historical results in margins. And we will start to see that in the second quarter and then obviously in third and fourth.

So, as I look ahead, my expectation is that wireline margins will increase somewhat as we go into second and third quarter, and I think, at this point, we're comfortable with saying that we expect wireline EBITDA margins to be relatively flat and to be in that mid-30% EBITDA range.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It seems like every day, there is a new story on the economy. You've got a lot of -- touching the economy a lot of different ways, and I know Randall had talked about increasing nonpaid disconnect in the wireline business. But can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing, what the impact of the housing situation is, and any sign on the enterprise side of sort of more cautious behavior by, say, some of the financial services companies or others? Thank you.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Simon. I think I will not enter the debate with the experts on the state of the economy, and I will just let our numbers for the quarter speak for themselves. If you look at the numbers this quarter and we go across the different business and customer segments, first of all, in wireless, we continue to see very strong growth, growth in revenues, growth in revenue per customer, strong data revenue growth, and increases in both postpaid and total net adds year over a year versus first quarter of last year. So continued strong growth in wireless.

In enterprise, you've seen the numbers in the presentation, both in total enterprise revenues and in recurring service revenues, which are really, for us, the most important. Those growth rates are positive, and they are continuing to ramp.

As we look at the sales funnel and we look at the opportunities we see going forward from some of the larger contracts we have signed with Shell, with General Motors, with IBM, with Starbucks, we feel good about the enterprise business. And I think, relative to financial firms and other firms that might be impacted by what is going on in the markets and the economy, in many respects what we're doing for them is supporting the bandwidth needs they have in their business while at the same time trying to do it in the most cost-effective manner. So I think we're really right in the sweet spot for those enterprise customers.

As you look across the rest of the businesses, I mentioned in the presentation we're seeing improvements in wholesale trends, which are in line with what we had projected. We are seeing continued growth in regional business, with growth in both voice revenues as well as data revenues.

And in consumer, although I think you still see some softness in access lines, we are offsetting that with solid growth in broadband and with a nice ramp in video services.

So as I look across those numbers, I think what it does is it supports our premise that our business continues to be more defensive than most in times when the economy is weak or under stress.

SIMON FLANNERY: Can you touch briefly on the directory side of things?

RICK LINDNER: Sure. In directory, our revenues year over year are down slightly, and it reflects some decline, which is expected, on the print side. But at the same time, we're seeing very good growth, over 40% growth, in Electronic Yellow Pages. And we're doing some things in that business to support the business going forward and support that revenue and cash stream for us. So we made some investments and we will make some investments throughout 2008 in some additional advertising to support the business. We are growing the sales force in areas, particularly out-of-region areas, focused on selling Electronic Yellow Pages. And so as a result, we expect revenue to be relatively stable in that business and margins to be also relatively stable, in around the mid-40s.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Bear Stearns.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Rich, I think this is probably your last call, so congratulations is probably in order.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Mike.

MIKE MCCORMACK: A couple of things, Rick. On the wireless side, churn is obviously moving in the right direction. This quarter, you had the impact of the TDMA shutdown, but are you guys thinking internally about a target or a goal on churn, and maybe the puts and takes to get there?

And secondly, on the flow share side of wireless, any commentary on where you stand versus the competitors this quarter, and whether or not the iPhone had a meaningful impact? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: In terms of wireless, Mike, and wireless churn, we are pleased with the continued improvement there. And when you look at wireless churn, frankly, the most important piece of it is postpaid, because that is where you have the more significant customer acquisition costs.

Our postpaid churn has continued to trend down. It had some impact still in this quarter from TDMA and the TDMA shutdown. That was probably worth 5, 6, 7 basis points in terms of churn. And we would expect overall churn and in particular postpaid churn to continue to decline. We want to get down into an industry-leading level.

And the good news is we see a clear path to do that. In fact, in many markets across the country today, we are at sub-1% on postpaid churn. And the keys to getting there are, number one, continuing to build and improve network coverage and network performance; to continue to simplify our product offerings, which is easier for the customer, but also allows us to do a better job of customer service, makes billing easier to understand; and then finally, to continue to be innovative, I think, with the kinds of products and services and devices that we are offering. Devices, if anything, have become in wireless increasingly important.

In terms of flow share, I think we feel very good about our gross flow share today. Certainly our gross adds are very strong. 5 million this quarter is the best quarter we have ever had in gross adds. The key for us in terms of nets adds and market penetration is getting the churn number down. And that is where our focus is.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Any commentary on the iPhone, Rick?

RICK LINDNER: The iPhone again continues to be very popular with customers, and customer feedback on the device is very good. ARPUs are in the mid- to upper 90s on the iPhone across the base. We continue to see, of customers adopting the iPhone, over 40% of those customers are new to us. So nothing really new in the trends there, but again, continued solid growth with the iPhone.

MIKE MCCORMACK: You're not seeing any hesitancy in front of the 3G version?

RICK LINDNER: Through the first quarter, it was pretty stable.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Congrats again, Rich.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Mike.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Rich, same here. I appreciate the efforts.

Maybe just, Rick, questions on the competitive climate. On wireline and the cable front, if you could elaborate a little bit on the kind of run rate level of competition from cable. Last year, obviously the story was ramping footprint overlap. I think by the end of the year we kind of got to a roughly steady-state, and I think that the next front will be small and medium business. If you could kind of elaborate a little bit on whether you believe that you've kind of reached a steady-state competitive engagement with cable on the consumer front and then what is happening on the small and medium business front.

And then, on the other side of the coin in wireless, obviously the big story for the quarter was these $99 unlimited plans. People freaked out a little bit about the implications. But if you could maybe elaborate on what you have seen the results have been and what your assessment of Sprint's attempts to reengage the market have been, if any, on your business? Thanks a lot.

RICK LINDNER: Okay, David, starting with the cable competition on the wireline side, first in consumer, and you are correct. I think in our territory, cable is pretty much fully deployed and they were fully deployed in the latter part of 2007 in all of our markets. And what we typically have seen as they have launched a market is it tends to ramp up in terms of their penetration of the market over the first six months or so and then starts to flatten out.

So, overall, in terms of cable competition on the voice side in our wireline markets, it is reaching -- they are still adding customers, but the number of customers they are adding seems to be flattening out. And we will see those numbers as they are reported for this quarter to see if that continues to bear out.

But what we are seeing in wireline which is a little different than our expectation a year or two ago is that we are seeing continued ramp in wireless substitution. Some of that may be driven by the economy. Some may be just driven by how certain segments of the consumer marketplace want to handle their voice and their data communications.

And that is something that, the good news for us is, with substantial assets both on the wireless and wireline side, we can provide the kinds of alternatives that customers are looking for. And so as you know, we have rolled out a stand-alone broadband product, but in reality -- and that product has been growing. It was probably in the neighborhood of 30% of our broadband nets adds -- total broadband net adds in the first quarter. But the good news there as we look at it is nearly 50% of those customers that are buying that product are also bundling our wireless product with it. So I think that is a good example of providing the right kind of bundle and the right product set for different segments of the market.

On the small and medium business side, again, cable has launched in probably the majority of markets. And we are seeing some impacts there, but it is pretty small. Maybe to think about it, think about it like this. We would estimate that cable has somewhere in 2%, 2.5% share of voice in that customer segment. And when we look at our access line disconnects in the regional business segment, what we see is that, first of all, only about 30% of those in total are related to competitive disconnects. Many of the others are technology related, customers moving to IP, or they're just businesses that are cutting back and reducing lines.

Of the 30% of disconnects that are competitive related, less than 30% of those are moving to a cable competitor. So when you put that together, losses on access lines to cable competition is about in the 8%, 9% range of our total disconnects. So it has not been significant at this point.

We have also worked hard, as you know, over the past year, particularly in major markets where cable has launched or is preparing to launch, we've worked hard to enter into term contracts and get our customers on the right bundles. And I think that has helped to inoculate the base somewhat.

On the wireless unlimited plans, the results so far have been I would say better than we expected, frankly. To give you a sense for it, prior to the pricing changes, about 1.5% of new customers would sign up for rate plans at $99 or above. Since the price change has occurred, about 4% of new customers are signing up at $99. So the number of new customers coming in on those price points is up 2.5 and almost 3 times. And obviously, customers are choosing -- new customers are choosing to buy up and to get the peace of mind of the unlimited pricing.

In terms of customer migrations, we have seen some migrations from higher price points or customers that were at the $99 price point, but with a higher ARPU, and we've seen those migrations down to $99, about in the magnitude we had expected. But we are seeing more customers migrate up to $99 than we had anticipated.

So when you put all of that together, my expectation today is that I don't think we will see a significant impact at all on ARPU related to those price changes.

DAVID BARDEN: And Rick, just overall impressions of Sprint's reengagement?

RICK LINDNER: Well, Sprint obviously have their own price changes and plans out there, and they've got new advertising campaigns and so forth. Throughout the first quarter, though, we continued to be, if look at the porting numbers, we continue to be port-positive. In fact, we are net porting positive in the first quarter with all the carriers, but the most with Sprint in terms of just the relationship of port ins and port outs.

DAVID BARDEN: Great, guys. Thanks so much. Thanks again, Rich.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions, first on U-verse. You sort of exited last quarter -- I mean, the comments were that you had a week in December, the last good week before the holiday season, you added 12,000 subs. First-quarter results imply just under 12,000 adds per week. So it seems like the progress there has actually stalled a bit this quarter. Maybe some color behind that, and how do you get back to the trajectory required to hit the 1 million target by year end?

And then maybe second question on the spectrum auctions. Now that we're on the other side and you can talk more publicly about the auction strategy, can you talk us through a strategy of sort of aggregating regionally like you did versus a national strategy with the C block? Maybe sort of help us think about the puts and takes.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jason. First of all, on U-verse, and maybe there is a little bit of a disconnect between our plans and expectations for the ramp that we expect to see in U-verse net adds this year versus what some in the market may have modeled for the year. But actually, I would tell you in the U-verse nets adds, we are on, in fact a little bit ahead of our plan in U-verse net adds for the first quarter.

And if you go back and you look at the ramp, what you see is two quarters ago we added 75,000 customers. Fourth quarter we added 105,000. This quarter we added 148,000. We are on a pretty good trajectory that we would expect to continue into second, third and fourth quarter. And as we do that, we feel, frankly, more comfortable with the guidance we provided, which is that we will be at over 1 million U-verse Video customers by the end of this year.

As it ramps, obviously there are weeks where we have strong installations, and there are some periods, for example in the first quarter, in February, we rolled out a significant upgrade to the software platform, and so for a week or two in there, we went a little slower in installs and activations to make sure that that software upgrade performed well. And so you have some puts and takes like that. And then obviously, in holiday weeks and so forth, it impacts it.

But overall, if you get out of the microlevel of looking at it week by week and just look at the trend over the quarters, we actually accelerated somewhat the ramp this quarter versus the net add ramp last quarter. So we are comfortable with where we are there. And it also will vary as we open up new markets in terms of the magnitude of the areas we open up.

On the 700 MHz spectrum, first of all, our plan there was to try to purchase some spectrum up front from Aloha, which is what we did, and then to fill that in with 700 MHz in the auctions. Clearly, our target was the top 100 and top 200 markets. We also looked, as we did market by market, we looked at the spectrum -- the other spectrum position, obviously, we had in those markets. And we will use this 700 MHz spectrum, combined with the AWS spectrum that we purchased in the last auction, to roll out LTE.

The nice part about it is we've got a very good footprint now across virtually all our top 200 markets with spectrum that will be available to roll out LTE. It won't require us to go in and try to clear spectrum in order to roll it out. We also have the majority of the markets where we have 20 MHz in either 700 or AWS to roll LTE out, 20 contiguous.

So from that standpoint, we are very happy with what we achieved in the auctions. And as I said a little earlier, we've got a very clear, logical path to roll out LTE. And don't discount the fact, because we have done conversions a number of different ways. We have been forced to. This is not a conversion like we had with going from TDMA to GSM. This is more like the logical progression we had when we rolled out EDGE and when we rolled out UMTS, because as we roll out LTE, we would expect that the technology and the devices will be backwards-compatible to our networks across the country, which will give customers, as they adopt LTE devices, a very seamless experience.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That is helpful. And Rick, can you just put some parameters around what the LTE build might cost? I know you said sort of timeframe, 2010 and beyond?

RICK LINDNER: Jason, it is probably too early for that, but think about it as maybe similar to UMTS. If you think about it, we've got a very good spectrum position, a very dense cell site infrastructure. So rolling out LTE will be more like UMTS in terms of we will be adding cabinets and radios at the cell sites in this new vacant spectrum to roll it out. So it will be more in that order of magnitude. But as you know, LTE is still in development of standards and development of the technology. So I don't have any numbers for you yet on what the cost will be. I don't think it will be, as we roll it out, I don't anticipate it is going to be -- result in a significant change to our overall CapEx plans, much like UMTS has not had a significant impact over our overall CapEx budget.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thank you. And Rich, best of luck to you.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, JPMorgan Securities.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN SECURITIES: I'm wondering if I could follow up on an earlier question on margins. I am wondering if the IBM contract and the Shell contract had any margin impact this quarter, if there were costs associated with those contracts that were incurred. And then I am wondering what the ramp on -- at least on the IBM contract looks like in the back of the year, whether by the fourth quarter we are going to be seeing $250 million a quarter in revenue on that contract, whether the $5 billion over five years is more back-end-weighted.

And then on the wireless side, it seems like you probably only got a partial quarter benefit from the TDMA analog shutdown in margins this quarter. So we should see a ramp in margins from first quarter to second quarter, it seems, as well. I just wanted to check on that. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jonathan. First of all, on IBM and Shell, the Shell contract was just signed, so it didn't have any impact at all on first quarter. IBM, we are just early in the process of moving employees and contracts and vendor relationships over to us. So it had some impact on the first quarter, but it was pretty modest, both in terms of revenues as well as margins. There were some upfront costs on the IBM contract that had some impact on margins.

But generally, what you should think about on both -- on these contracts as well as General Motors and any of the large outsourcing contracts is that as you look at them over multiple years, in the first year of those contracts, margins will be pretty low, because generally what we are doing is we are bringing the business in. We may be bringing employees in that have to be consolidated with our workforce. We have a lot of work to do in rationalizing the access and how traffic is carried. So we are moving traffic onto our facilities wherever possible.

So a lot of work is done there, and so in that first year there is pretty small margins and not much income impact. As we get into the second, third, fourth years of the contract, then we have had the ability to rationalize the costs, and we also have the ability to sell more products and services into that particular customer. So the margins would grow over time.

In terms of the IBM ramp, we are kind of moving that country by country, and in some cases we are also working with how the traffic has been carried and the providers of that traffic to transition it. So it will be a transition throughout this year. I would expect us to be somewhere in the $400 million to $500 million range in terms of revenues from that agreement for the year, and it will ramp as the year goes on.

TDMA, our wireless network folks have done a very good job over the last year or so as TDMA traffic declined substantially to thinning the TDMA network and reducing costs, taking as much out as possible as we have gone along. Now that that network is fully shut down, there are some incremental benefits that we will be able to groom out of the network. So I think it will provide us some lift as we get into the balance of this year. But the fact is we have taken a lot of those costs out already.

OPERATOR: David Janazzo, Merrill Lynch.

DAVID JANAZZO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Rick, on the free cash flow, obviously a small number in the first quarter versus the annual outlook. Can you review some of the timing factors that are going to impact that number? And you bought back a lot of shares during the quarter. Was that a function of being opportunistic, or could that mean that things could move along more quickly?

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. On free cash flow, as you know, first quarter is always low for us on free cash flow. It is a combination of factors. The annual incentives for all employees are paid out in the first quarter. We typically have a little higher payment of other accrued expenses and accounts payable that occur in the first quarter. And then of course, we've got, first quarter, generally we are making the tax payment related to the prior year, and that first-quarter tax payment is normally larger. I think this year, in fact, it was up about $1.6 billion year over year.

So the first quarter is always affected by the timing, those timing issues. We feel very comfortable with our free cash flow guidance for the year and expect normal significant increases in free cash flow as we go into the second and third quarters. And then fourth quarter is normally a strong free cash flow quarter for us.

Share repurchase was really mostly a decision that we made frankly based on where the shares were trading, that as we looked at our share repurchase plan for the year, we made a decision to front-end-load it and put more of it in the first quarter. And that is what we did.

We will continue to be in the market throughout this year as well as next year. And I fully expect that we will complete, as we said when we announced it in December, complete the $400 million share authorization next year. And we will just see how the market evolves in terms of the timing of that, but we are well on the way. We've purchased nearly 112 million shares of that 400 million shares in the first quarter.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, Sanford Bernstein.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: If I could dig down a bit more into a couple of wireline questions, one, on the enterprise side, we have seen now a clear improvement in the revenue growth. I'm wondering if you can talk about the margins specifically within the enterprise segment and whether we are starting to see some margin expansion, and where you think those margins might be able to get to over time.

And then separately, on the DSL side, you took a relatively large price increase back in February. I'm wondering if you can just talk about the kind of response you've seen to the pricing action in the broadband numbers, which were actually pretty strong this quarter.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Craig. First of all, on EBS, the margins there have been pretty stable, and that is similar to other parts of our wireline business. What we are doing there is as customers migrate from legacy voice and data, which tend to have higher margins because of the scale that we have, and they migrate to IP, it creates some margin pressure. But as those customers, as we continue to grow the relationships and sell into those customers and as we gain more scale in IP-based services, we are increasing margins in those services. And then we are navigating that pressure really through merger synergies and continuation of cost initiatives in the business. So, overall, pretty stable.

As I mentioned earlier, some of the large transactions we're doing do put some pressure on margins in the early years, but we are very comfortable and confident that those contracts are profitable over the life of the contracts and essentially give us a great opportunity to sell services and increase margins as we go forward in the contracts. So, overall, pretty stable in enterprise.

On the DSL price increase, we are rolling that increase across the base, and so we saw some of that in the first quarter. We will continue to roll it as customers come up for renewal or come out of their initial commitment periods. And that will take effect throughout the base during the year. But the initial reaction from the base, as well as the reaction from new customer adds and gross sales, has been very good.

We did a lot of training, and I think the consumer organization did a terrific job of training in the call centers, on the value proposition we were offering. And as a result, the demand there has continued to be very solid.

As I mentioned before, I think some of the DSL direct sales have also helped, as well as the bundling we're doing between broadband and wireless has also helped in the broadband area. But overall, very pleased with the reaction from the broadband price increase.

The truth is, today, even with those price increases, when you look at the service we are providing, we provide the best value in the marketplace in broadband. And I think our sales force certainly understands that. I think customers are understanding and reacting to it.

The other thing I would mention is at the same time as we were increasing prices in the first quarter, our churn rates in broadband actually dropped. So I think that was a positive sign as well.

RICH DIETZ: Christine, our next question will need to be our last question for this Q&A session.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Lehman Brothers.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Before I start, I would also like to wish Rich all the best on his retirement. I look forward to continuing to talk with you as a significant T shareholder.

RICH DIETZ: Thanks, Tom.

TOM SEITZ: A couple of quick ones. D&A continues to go down. Can you talk about what you expect there with the tax stimulus package impacts? Is there going to be a complete reversal of that trend or just a slowing of that trend?

And then I think about 20% of the postpaid base has a 3G device. I think our equipment colleagues estimate that you go through somewhere around 60 million to 65 million handsets when you combine replacements and gross adds. Is there, an opportunity to significantly grow the number of customers that has a 3G device this year, maybe faster than the ramp we are currently seeing?

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Tom. First, on the depreciation and amortization trends and the reduction there, let me split it into a couple pieces. First of all, amortization of customer intangibles from the mergers is dropping, and it's dropping because we used an accelerated method to amortize those intangible assets. But if you look at our adjusted numbers, which exclude the amortization of those customer base intangibles, you still see a decline in, essentially, in depreciation expense in the first quarter.

And that is being driven by a couple of things. First of all, in the wireline business, when we did the acquisitions of AT&T and of BellSouth, there are certain assets, both in network and in IT and in support systems and so forth, that we knew we would use for an interim period of time. But then, as we integrated the companies, those assets would come out of service.

So we accelerated the depreciation on those assets and depreciated them over fairly short lives. What you're seeing at the end of 2007 is some of those assets coming out of service, so depreciation falling off.

We have the same phenomenon in the wireless business with TDMA. We have known for several years now what the end date was for the TDMA network. And so in 2006 and 2007, we were actually accelerating depreciation on TDMA assets, and then that depreciation obviously drops off when those assets come out of service.

What I would expect going forward, though, is I would expect in the next few quarters to see depreciation expense increase somewhat. And that is a function of the capital program we have in place for this year, as well as the fact that a larger portion of our capital program is going into areas that have shorter lives, either software, or in the case of U-verse, the success-based CPE capital associated with our U-verse customers, set-top boxes and home gateways, which get depreciated over shorter lives. And so that will drive some increase in depreciation expense as we go forward this year. And overall, I would expect 2007 and 2008 to be fairly flat.

In terms of 3G devices, we still have opportunities to ramp up 3G, and we will see it, I think, ramp up pretty significantly as the year goes on. You have to think about it like this, Tom. We've got two things going on in our wireless space. We've got growth in 3G devices, but we also have grows in integrated devices. And both of those are positive to us from the standpoint of ARPU and of data revenues, but certainly, the integrated devices more so.

And if you think about it, up to this point in time, when you think about integrated devices, the two devices, the first two that come to mind are the BlackBerry and the iPhone, both of which are EDGE devices, for the most part. We are just starting to see BlackBerry 3G come out.

And so as the those devices, as those integrated devices move to 3G, I think that will be the next catalyst to drive stronger 3G growth. New customers coming in today, if they are buying a phone, many times, particularly postpaid customers, they're primarily going to 3G. If they are buying an integrated device in the future, they will be going to 3G. So that will increase the penetration there.

TOM SEITZ: Great, thank you very much.

RICH DIETZ: Okay, very good. That will conclude our question-and-answer session. I believe Rick has some closing comments before we adjourn for this morning.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Rich, and thanks, everyone, for being on the call today.

Before I close the call, I would like to as well take a moment to recognize Rich Dietz, who, as you all know, has headed up our Investor Relations efforts. Rich is retiring at the end of this month. He has already told me as a retiree he wants to make sure that we increase dividends significantly in the future. But he is retiring after 38 years or so with AT&T and our predecessor companies, SBC Communications and Southwestern Bell.

During his career, Rich has held leadership positions in information technology, in our local telephone operations, in our international ventures, and in our broadband and data communications businesses. And for the last three-and-a-half years, he's done an absolutely terrific job with Investor Relations.

As with all of his previous positions, he leaves the organization on top, with AT&T being voted the most shareowner-friendly company in our sector by Institutional Investor this year. And so, Rich, we thank you for your leadership and your friendship over a terrific career with AT&T. And on behalf of all your friends at the Company and all the investors and analysts you have served, we wish you and your wife, Kim, and your family the absolute best in your retirement.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Rick.

RICK LINDNER: Now if I can, I would like to offer a closing comment on the first-quarter results. As I said at the beginning of the call, I think it was a strong quarter and a good start to the year in a number of ways.

Our wireless growth continues to be strong. We've got solid momentum in enterprise. Wholesale has begun a positive turn. And our U-verse platform is delivering the growth trajectory we expected. Broadband growth continues at a double-digit pace, and our profit margins are moving in the right direction. And as we continue to return substantial value to shareowners, we're also investing in the future of the business.

I think at any time, but especially in the current market and economic environment, I think AT&T has an attractive profile. We have great assets with a terrific set of opportunities in front of us in terms of both revenue growth and on the cost side of the business. And our revenue growth is ramping, and we are continuing to grow earnings per share at double-digit rates. We've got a strong balance sheet and a strong dividend yield. And best of all, both consumer and business customers continue to need connectivity from us for both voice and data communications, making our business more defensive than most during periods of economic weakness.

So, looking ahead, we feel good about the business and our ability to deliver what we have laid out for you. And again, I want to thank you for taking part in the call today and for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Rick. Christine, that will conclude the call this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes the AT&T first-quarter 2008 earnings release conference call. This concludes your conference for today. You may all disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc | unitel : Sprint Nextel Corp.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080506e44m00162
  


 HD
 Q4  2007  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,908 words
   PD
24 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings release 2007 conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz, Senior Vice President Investor Relations. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

RICH DIETZ, SVP, IR, AT&T: Great. Thank you and good morning to everyone. Welcome to our fourth-quarter 2007 conference call. It is great to have you with us this morning.

   TD
Joining me on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

As you have seen, this was another strong quarter for AT&T, and the purpose of this call is to provide additional background on the results that we published earlier this morning. Our release, investor briefings, supplementary information and presentation slides are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T website. That is AT&T.com/investor.relations.

Before we get started, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our website, AT&T.com/investor.relations.

Okay. With that covered, let me quickly cover our fourth-quarter EPS comparisons which are on slide four of the presentation materials. This quarter marks AT&T's 11th consecutive quarter and our third straight year of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS.

Reported EPS this quarter was $0.51. We had $0.19 of merger integration costs and non-cash amortization of intangibles. The result is $0.71, a 16.4% increase from year ago results.

With that background, I will now turn the call over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T: Thanks, Rich, and good morning to everybody on the call. I would like to begin with a few brief highlights which are covered on slide six.

Our results this quarter are a continuation of the trends we have had in our business for sometime. They are in line with what we outlined for you at our New York Analyst Day, and they reinforce the confidence we have in our 2008 outlook.

First, we had an outstanding wireless quarter. Gross adds were a record $6 million. We had 2.7 million net adds, the best ever by any US provider. ARPU is up, and churn is down. Data revenue growth continues to be robust, and total wireless revenues grew better than 16%. All-in-all just a terrific wireless quarter.

We also took a significant step up in enterprise service revenue growth. Our sales funnel is strong, and we have solid enterprise momentum heading into 2008.

Our regional revenue trends are stable, and with these dynamics, we are on track to deliver mid single digit growth in consolidated revenues in 2008.

We continue to deliver on merger synergies. Our margins are solid, free cash flow is very strong, and we are returning substantial value to shareowners, more than $19 billion in dividends and share repurchases in 2007 with a double-digit dividend increase heading into 2008 and the expectation for continued substantial share buybacks.

With that as a backdrop, I would like to cover now the quarter in a little bit more detail. Slide seven shows our earnings per share growth and margin expansion. As Rich mentioned, before merger-related effects, our fourth-quarter EPS was $0.71, our 11th straight quarter of double-digit growth and adjusted EPS. Our fourth-quarter adjusted operating income margin was 24%, up nearly 600 basis points year-over-year, and for the full year, our adjusted operating margin was 23.8%, well above our original outlook of 21 to 23% and at the top end of our more recent guidance of 23 to 24%.

Given our expectations for revenue growth and cost initiatives, we expect our full-year adjusted operating income margin will expand further in 2008 to the 25 to 26% range. And we expect to deliver continued double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.

In part, our expectations for margin expansion are based on continued merger synergies and new expense savings opportunities which continue to be substantial. Slide eight has a synergy update similar to what we've provided to you throughtout 2007.

We continue to run ahead of schedule on AT&T Corp and BellSouth merger synergies. In 2006 we achieved $1.1 billion of savings from our AT&T integration. That is a combination of both expense and capital. In 2007 we moved that run-rate up to $4 billion with 75% expense and the remainder in capital savings. This reflects good progress on network and traffic consolidations, labor savings and rebranding.

Our BellSouth and Cingular brand migration work is largely complete at this point. That includes vehicles, retail locations and advertising.

Most important, we have a great deal of headroom in terms of cost reduction. There is more upside ahead on synergies as shown on this chart. And, as we outlined for you at our analyst conference, we're also underway with operational initiatives that we expect to generate significant eventual expense savings above these synergies. When you put the two of them together, our total operating expense savings run-rate will increase by approximately $2 billion in 2008.

We have good plans on the cost side. They are built into our operating targets, and in addition, given our size, our expectation is to achieve continuous productivity improvements going forward.

We also have substantial opportunity for topline growth, and as I said, we're on a good trajectory to deliver mid single digit revenue growth in 2008. Slide nine provides a look at our trends.

This chart shows total revenue versus pro forma results for 2006. The slight decline in the rate of revenue growth this quarter versus last quarter reflects the impact of enterprise CPE or equipment sales, which had an effect on our revenue comparisons this quarter.

Starting in 2007, we deemphasized stand-alone equipment sales in enterprise shifting our strategy to focus on CPE as part of total solutions that pull through service revenues. As a result of this change, fourth-quarter 2006 had 180 million more in CPE revenues than our current run-rate. Going forward, we expect year-over-year comparisons for equipment sales to be much more stable.

Adjusting for enterprise CPE, our fourth-quarter year-over-year revenue growth was 3.5%, and the drivers are continued solid midteens wireless growth, further improvements in enterprise and stable regional revenues.

In addition, going forward we expect wholesale trends to stabilize as we move through 2008, and there are number of factors driving this. Traffic migrations from industry consolidation are nearing completion. The year-over-year impact of merger conditions will be behind us by midyear, and we expect new revenues from our IBM alliance will begin to provide a lift to wholesale results.

Also, national mass-markets will become a smaller part of our overall revenue picture. This is the legacy AT&T stand-alone long distance business. It is already less than 3% of total revenues, so the drag we have experienced from that area of our business will be reduced as we move forward. Given these factors, we remain confident in our mid single digit revenue outlook.

Our number one driver of revenue growth continues to be wireless, which we show on slide 10. As I said, we had a great wireless quarter. Total wireless revenues were up 16.3%, and wireless service revenues were up 15.7%.

The first driver is terrific subscriber growth. In the fourth quarter, excluding the Dobson acquisition, we set industry records for both gross adds and net adds. And for the full year 2007, we added more than 7 million subscribers, and that is before acquisitions.

The second driver is ARPU growth. Total ARPU was up nearly 2% in the fourth quarter. It was our sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year ARPU growth. And postpaid ARPU was even stronger, up more than 5%.

Our network coverage is excellent, and it is getting better everyday. Our sales presence is strong. We're setting the pace with cutting-edge handsets, and these are all contributing to strong wireless momentum.

Slide 11 shows the details on wireless subscriber growth. Fourth quarter versus a year ago, gross adds were up by more than $0.5 million, nearly 10%. Net adds were up 13.5% to $2.7 million, and virtually all of the year-over-year increase in net adds came from postpaid were net adds were up 37%. And postpaid churn dropped by 30 basis points.

At the end of the year, we had 70.1 million wireless subscribers, and we've provided a table to show the math, adding in the subscribers from our Dobson acquisition. That acquisition closed in November and did not have a meaningful effect on our net add total for the quarter.

The other big driver behind our wireless performance is explosive growth in data. The highlights are on slide 12. Year-over-year wireless data revenue growth was up 57.5%, taking us to more than $2 billion for the quarter. This growth reflects strong increases in both consumer and business data usage. Internet access revenues were up more than 40%, messaging up more than 50%, e-mail growth exceeded 60%, and revenues from data access and media bundles were both up more than 70%. Data now represents close to 20% of our total wireless service revenues and $12 of our postpaid ARPU.

And yet there remains a huge upside to data growth. Only 37% of our postpaid subscribers are on a monthly wireless data plan. Adoption of smart phones and integrated devices is on the rise, but the fact is we're still very early in the adoption curve. At this point about 12% of AT&T's subscribers have these devices, and ARPUs for those customers are more than double the average.

Data growth is also driven by an increasing number of subscribers using AT&T's 3G network, which now includes more than 260 US Metropolitan areas. At the end of the year, we had more than 9 million customers using 3G devices, almost all of them added during the past year.

We continue to be a leader in bringing to market a rich selection of both devices and services, and a few of our latest and most exciting are pictured on slide 13. We have expanded our lead in PDAs with devices such as the Pantech Duo, a 3G global smart device available exclusively in the US from AT&T; the BlackJack II, which brings the personal computer experience to a compact wireless device, and additionally AT&T is the world's largest provider of BlackBerry service.

We have made a point of leading in feature-rich handsets with AT&T exclusives such as the Apple iPhone, which continues to generate very strong sales. 40% of customers who buy the iPhone are new to AT&T, and iPhone subscribers have very attractive ARPU characteristics, significantly higher than our postpaid average.

And the iPhone experience continues to get richer. As you may have seen, Apple has announced a number of enhancements to the iPhone, including the ability to create up to nine customizable home screens, location-enabled maps, multiple address messaging and iTunes movie rentals. And one of the Web-based applications users can place on their iPhone home screen now is YellowPages.com, our own electronic search service.

Also, in the fourth quarter, we launched the Samsung Slim. That's Samsung's newest lightweight mobile phone with music and multimedia capabilities. The Slim features Napster Mobile, a new service that lets customers purchase and download from a catalog of 5 million songs. AT&T is the only national provider to enable customers to purchase full track songs over the air from both Napster and eMusic, the world's largest retailer of independent music.

We're also working with Wachovia and SunTrust, and together we have launched a mobile banking service that will enable consumers to view account balances and history, transfer funds and pay bills from their AT&T mobile handsets. Our scale, combined with our GSM platform, makes us an attractive partner, both for device makers and service partners of all sorts. That is evident in the lineup we offer as we make the wireless experience richer to drive subscriber loyalty, usage and revenues.

In terms of financial performance, one of the big opportunities we have in wireless is further margin expansion. The highlights are on slide 14. As you know, wireless margins in the fourth quarter typically show a sequential decline due to higher gross adds. With our record gross adds this fourth quarter, that is again the case.

With that being said, our wireless margin trends are quite positive and continue the strong trends we have established over the past three years. Versus the year earlier fourth quarter, our adjusted wireless operating margin was 25.7%, up 680 basis points, and our adjusted service EBITDA margin was 38.2%, up 380 basis points.

There are a lot of drivers which we've covered with you in the past. We continue to improve our network cost structure. The IT systems migration and shutdowns that we outlined as part of our merger integration are now complete. And the shutdown of our TDMA network will take place at the end of February. We have moved 390,000 subscribers off that network in the fourth quarter and about 390,000 remain, roughly two-thirds of them being wholesale customers.

We have significant potential for wireless margin expansion going forward. In 2008 we expect a full-year adjusted EBITDA margin in the low 40% range, trending towards the mid-40s by the end of the year.

Now let me turn to another key area where we saw substantial improvement, and that is in enterprise. The details are on slide 15.

The chart here is the one we've provided for the past several quarters. It shows year-over-year growth rates for enterprise revenues, excluding CPE sales and M&A impacts. We have had a very strong two-year climb. Last quarter we moved into positive territory at 0.3%, and this quarter we stepped that up to 1.8%, and the momentum is good.

Demand continues to be solid. Data transport volumes are strong. IP services, which include virtual private networks, managed Internet service and hosting grew 21% year-over-year. And we're winning contracts. When you look at sales results for the second half of 2007 versus the first half of 2007, our net new orders for products such as VPN, DS1 and DS3 grew by double-digit rates. And for 2008 our new sales projections continue to look good.

When you take into consideration that new sales can take three to six months to close and that we have seen no evidence of enterprise customers paring back on capital and project-related spending versus 2007, we feel confident in our ability to continue growing enterprise revenues throughout 2008.

As we outlined at our analyst event last month, the dynamics behind our global business are positive, and that includes both enterprise as well as wholesale. Slide 16 outlines the key trends.

First, we have a premier global network serving nearly 120,000 customers in 164 countries. We have 38 data hosting centers around the world, and we're making smart aggressive moves to advance that network overseas and here in the US where we are underway with the nation's most extensive OC768 deployment.

Second, we're seeing good fundamental demand in volume trends, driven by wireless and application services. With strong demand in applications management, we're seeing the shift to IP deliver faster revenue recovery times than we had anticipated.

And third, when you look ahead at our wholesale and enterprise business, there are additional incremental drivers that we expect to help growth rates going forward.

In October we formed an alliance with IBM that calls for AT&T to become their primary global network management services provider. As a result, we expect to receive up to 5 billion of additional revenues over the five-year term of the agreement, largely in the wholesale customer category at the outset and in enterprise as we build the business. These revenues are expected to begin ramping in mid-2008.

This week we announced a three-year marketing agreement with SAP America. We will serve as SAP's primary independent hosting services provider for business customers headquartered in North America.

As we add to our business through alliances such as these, we're also seeing reduced impacts to wholesale from the traffic migration that has occurred due to industry consolidation. That process is nearing an end. And the year-over-year impact of merger conditions on wholesale results will be behind us by midyear. When you take these factors together, it leads to our outlook not only for enterprise growth in 2008, but for a return to wholesale growth as well.

We also had solid results in regional business. Slide 17 provides a quick update. Our regional business revenues grew by 2.8% in the fourth quarter. Revenues from small and midsize firms continue to be solid. They were up 5%, consistent with recent results.

Regional business data revenues grew 4.2%, led by mid single digit growth in data transport and double-digit growth in IP data revenues, including areas such as VPNs, broadband and managed Internet services.

Regional business voices revenues also continue to grow in the low single digits both local and long distance. And at this point, nearly 50% of our small business customers at risk to cable competition have bundled services and have signed new term contracts with us, and our activity in this area is reflected in the growth rates.

Our product sets with strength in data services in key growth areas such as VoIP, IP data and application services gives us an excellent opportunity in regional business. We expect that it will be an ongoing area of strength for us with mid single digit growth.

Slide 18 shows regional consumer trends where we continued to deliver stable revenues consistent with results over the past several quarters. Broadband penetration of consumer primary lines now approaches 39%. In our West region, California and Nevada, broadband penetration is above 45%. Consumer video penetration moved up to 7.6%. That is satellite and U-verse TV. With gains in broadband and video more than offsetting declines in traditional voice lines, over the past year we've had a net gain in regional consumer connections of 568,000. And our consumer ARPU based on primary lines was up 4.9%.

I mentioned at our December 11 analyst event in New York that we had seen some evidence of economic softness on consumer, primarily in access lines and broadband net adds. We have this level of economic softness baked into our business plans, and as a result, there is no change to our outlook at this time, which is for continued growth in regional consumer driven by broadband in ramping video revenue.

Slide 19 shows our broadband results where we continued to deliver solid double-digit growth in both revenues and subscribers. We had a net gain in the fourth quarter of just under 400,000, and over the past year, we've had a net gain of 2 million broadband connections. That includes a significant ramp over the past quarter in broadband sales without a traditional wired voice line, either stand-alone or more often in our wireless broadband bundle, which we launched in August of 2007.

And we continue to deliver solid double-digit growth in broadband revenues, up nearly 14% in the fourth quarter. We believe there continues to be substantial opportunity ahead in broadband as we add more features and options in the first quarter, including free Wi-Fi access to subscribers who take speeds at 1.5 megabits or above. As you know, we have the largest Wi-Fi coverage of any US provider.

Plus, in the first quarter, we're adding a new 10 megabit broadband service on our U-verse platform.

The other driver in our consumer business is video, and we continue to see a solid ramp in U-verse as we show on slide 20. Since our last quarterly update, we have added new markets. We're now in 41. We have expanded coverage in existing markets, and our install rates have climbed. In mid-December our last good preholiday week we had approximately 12,000 installs, above the 10,000 per week target we've set for the end of the year.

Our technicians are gaining experience and expertise. We're seeing further reductions in installation times. Churn continues to improve, and customer response is very positive. We have expanded our deployment plan to include the Southeast region with the target of reaching up to 30 million homes by 2010.

We have just launched our U-verse Voice over IP service in Detroit and will continue to roll that out to additional markets in 2008. We expect a continued strong ramp, and as we said at our analyst conference, we expect our installed base to exceed 1 million by the end of 2008.

I would like to close with a few comments on cash flow on slide 21. For the full year, cash from operations totaled $34.1 billion, free cash flow totaled $16.4 billion, and we returned substantial cash to shareowners, $19.1 billion when you combine more than $10 billion in share repurchases with our dividends paid.

As a result, our free cash flow yield has grown and exceeds that of our peers. And as we laid out for you before, we have a strong balance sheet. We intend to keep our credit metric stable with a debt to EBITDA multiple in the 1.3 to 1.5 range. And our strong and growing free cash flow gives us the flexibility to both invest in the future of our business and return substantial value to shareowners.

As you know, we have grown our dividend every year in our history, including a 12.7% increase announced in December, and we expect to continue share repurchases. We announced a new repurchase authorization for 400 million shares, which is about 6.6% of our year-end shares outstanding, and we expect to exhaust that by the end of 2009.

So with that, let me close with a quick recap. I think we had a very solid fourth quarter. We're seeing accelerating momentum across some key growth areas in our business in wireless, in enterprise and in video. What we're seeing in the economy is consistent with our 2008 operational plan, and we're confident in our ability to execute on that plan as we discussed in our December analyst meeting. We expect to ramp revenue growth in 2008 to the mid single digit range. We expect to expand our consolidated adjusted margins into the 25 to 26% range, and we will continue to be a strong free cash flow company, which allows us to invest in the business and return cash to shareowners. We have a deep management team, one that is financially disciplined and with a strong record of delivering on targets. That is AT&T today.

With that, Rich, I think we're ready to open up the lines for some questions.

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thank you, Rick. If you would, we're ready to begin the question-and-answer session.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I wanted to ask about U-verse if I could. Can you give us some sense of the dilution in the quarter? Any early learnings about things like churn and also the updated timing on getting a second HD stream.

And then on the iPhone, if you could give us some iPhone numbers where we stand at the end of the year and any commentary on the business pricing that was rolled out this week? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure. Good morning. Let me try to address your questions there. First of all, we feel very good about U-verse results in the fourth quarter. They were right where we had targeted them for the quarter.

Churn rates, any new product churn rates are a little bit misleading because you don't have much of a base there. But our churn rates in U-verse are very good. They are comparable right now to what we are seeing in access-line and broadband kinds of churn. And I actually believe they will decline from there. I would expect they would decline to sub-2% levels as we start to build the base further. But churn and customer response to the product continues to be good.

Dilution for the year in U-verse was right at $0.11. That is right where we had projected it for the year. And going forward, there is no change to our outlook or guidance from that standpoint. I think, as we go into 2008, we ramp and launch additional markets, increase our gross add activity. I would expect incremental dilution next year in the $0.12 to $0.14 range. But the product is moving along very well.

We do have, as you noted, we have got some product enhancements slated for 2008 that I think will be key, including whole home DVR capabilities. Second, HD stream. And we would expect to have those -- begin rolling those out in the market around midyear.

And then a third enhancement that will be, frankly, important to us going forward because it will enable even additional HD streams will be where they are required will be pair bonding, which we expect late in 2008. So solid results continue I think on U-verse.

With respect to the iPhone, results continue to be very good. We had very solid sales results in both October and November, and in December, as you would expect from kind of the normal monthly run-rate, we had almost double the sales in December. I think clearly as we go forward, Apple will continue to enhance the product. We see some software enhancements being announced and planned for 2008. So I think it will continue to be a very strong product for us.

ARPUs on the iPhone are very good as you would expect. The people that acquire that phone, first of all, tend to have strong voice ARPUs, but then in addition are putting data packages on top of it. And so similar to what we see in our entire smart phone and integrated device lineup, we're seeing ARPUs that are nearly double what average ARPUs are in the rest of the base.

SIMON FLANNERY: Can you just help us reconcile the 4 million number that Apple gave to what you might be seeing in terms of both how much of that is overseas and how much of that is being bought for locking?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, it is difficult to reconcile those numbers, and it will become increasingly more difficult going forward as Apple expands into more overseas markets. But essentially we had -- we have finished the year. We were just at or just slightly under 2 million iPhone customers in the base. And if you start to try to reconcile those numbers, the big reconciling items will be, first of all, there are devices that we have purchased that are in inventory. There are devices that have been sold and shipped, some of them online, but were not activated at that point. So that creates a reconciling item. And then third, there are certainly some devices that are being purchased through channels in the US or purchased through online channels that are actually going to international markets. So that creates another reconciling item there.

But when you look at a device that has been in the market for six months basically, a half a year, and it is 2 million devices out of a -- and you have to back it up to largely our postpaid base, that is pretty significant growth in a short period of time, and we continue to see it as a very strong product.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America Securities.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Maybe two related questions I guess just talking about the economy obviously. The stock is down about 13% from Randall's comments at the beginning of the month talking about the softness that could creep into the consumer business. Although it was not apparent to me that we actually saw it coming full force in the fourth quarter.

I guess the concern here, though, is that the expectations that have been laid out for 2008 encompass some positive economic scenario, which if the data starts to deteriorate, AT&T just will not be able to live up to. And that seems to be the bet that the market is making.

So, Rick, I was wondering if you could kind of just discuss the tolerances around the economic scenarios that you have baked into the '08 expectations? How much more unemployment? What kind of GDP growth expectations are the minimum necessary to expect that enterprise can continue to grow, that consumer revenues can continue to grow, etc.?

And then I guess the second part of that would be that whole discussion has extended to the wireless arena where data revenue growth has been the biggest driver of it. There is an argument that maybe that is a discretionary component of the business, and therefore, it could not possibly be as strong in a softer economic climate. Counterbalancing that is the fact that you only have 12% of your devices are smart phones, and there's a large component of wealthy new people who could be using it but are not. So I guess if you could kind of talk about those issues as we look into '08, that would be very helpful. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: I would be happy to do that, David. As you all know, there has been an awful lot of noise in the market and the media about the economy. What I would first say is, if you go back to the comments that we have made, first of all, going back to our analyst conference in December, I made comments in my presentation in December that we were seeing a little bit of softness in some of our consumer metrics, and in response to some questions at the conference, we talked about some increases in nonpay disconnects and things that, frankly, you would expect I think somewhat given trends in the overall economy.

In January our Chairman, Randall Stephenson, made very, very similar comments. What caused those comments suddenly in January to be more of a media event than the similar comments we made in December I cannot say. But putting that aside, let's talk about it and look at the results we had for fourth quarter.

Where we saw some softness as we have mentioned is in access-lines where the rate of switched line loss increased somewhat in the fourth quarter, and we saw it in some slowing in broadband net adds. In both of those cases, both of those products are impacted by some of the things we see in the housing market, some slowdown in home sales, slowdown in new construction. They are impacted by as well some small uptick in nonpay disconnects, and to put it in context, it is for both products in the neighborhood of about 10 basis points of additional churn nonpay related that we saw in the fourth quarter of this year versus fourth quarter of the prior year. Those were trends that we were seeing in December. We've baked those into our operational plans, and they are reflected in the guidance that we have given.

As you look across the rest of the business, we are clearly not seeing any impacts in our wireless business at this point. Wireless continues to be very strong both in customer growth and in ARPU growth. And to some degree, it reflects I think changes in terms of the way people are communicating today versus maybe 10 or 15 years ago or if you go back to any last consumer economic softness we have had. And that is simply that wireless in terms of access and connectivity is very important to people today.

We're not seeing any impacts as we said at the analyst conference and I think as you see in our results in sales to business customers and particularly in sales to enterprise business. And if you think about the products we're selling there and the focus in that business and the movement of customers and traffic to IP, that is something even in a difficult economy when companies are looking to reduce costs, that is actually a service that facilitates and helps them provide more bandwidth and more productivity within their business at lesser costs.

And so it is not surprising actually that as you look at the results and look at the fourth-quarter results the strength we have had in IP-based revenues there.

So when you put all of that together, David, I think we still feel good about our guidance and our plan for 2008. The economy is always a risk, but I think when you look across our business, we are relatively I think defensive in nature in these kinds of downturns. And wireless particularly for the reasons that you mentioned and some of the things I mentioned in the presentation, the fact that the ARPU growth is being driven by data and that data growth is being driven by new devices, new smart phones, new integrated devices, and it is being driven by the move to 3G. And together those things are opening up a whole new host of applications that I think will be -- bring value and be very interesting to our customers. I think that makes us feel very good about the outlook for wireless as we go into 2008.

So the economy is something and the impact on our business is something we monitor. We will watch every quarter as we look at our results across each of the business units. But at this point what I have described to you is what we have seen, and it is just some limited impact in our access-line and broadband results. And I would tell you, even in broadband, while we certainly would say that fourth-quarter broadband net adds were a little lower than we had seen in prior quarters, when you annualize the broadband net adds we had in fourth quarter, they are still growing at better than a double-digit pace. So we're still seeing pretty nice growth there.

DAVID BARDEN: And Rick, just to follow-up real quick, just the difference between December and January was I think that the market became much more convinced that there was less of a debate about the economy actually softening. So can you just kind of reiterate that with respect to all the incremental data that has come out to this point your conviction level is still there that you have kind of baked in the appropriate baseline economic environment within a range of reasonable assumptions into the numbers?

RICK LINDNER: I think if I understand your question, David, you are asking with any incremental data we have seen in January, are we seeing trends that support our outlook? And the answer to that is yes.

Keeping in mind that we are only talking about a few weeks of activity, but generally what we have seen so far this year relative to fourth quarter as we have actually seen I think in these first few weeks, we have seen broadband improve somewhat over the run-rates we had in fourth quarter. And we have seen access-lines certainly be in terms of our run-rate be at or maybe a little better than we saw in the fourth quarter but certainly no worse.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Two questions. First, in terms of consolidated revenue growth, it looks like CPE had a larger than expected headwind or impact on the numbers this quarter. Is that 3.5% growth rate without CPE sort of a good starting point as we look out into '08? I realize the guidance is 4% to 6%. You went over what are the drivers to get us to accelerate.

But are there any other issues that could sort of surprise us from a negative standpoint besides the economy? We have seen the growth in wireless. I think it seems like you have good visibility on enterprise. I'm just wondering if there's anything else that we're not -- just sort of some idea of how you expect the growth to trend over the next few quarters.

And then on wireless, it looks like the margins were a little lighter than we bought. Can you talk a little bit about the strategy in the fourth quarter and how that plays out in the first quarter in terms of promotions and subsidies and maybe the rate of upgrades you saw in the quarter? Do we still expect a nice bump in the first quarter with the turndown in the TDMA network?

RICK LINDNER: Okay. Starting going back to your first question on revenue growth, first of all, you are right. Excluding CPE, revenue growth was 3.5%. It has had an impact on us in just about every quarter in 2007. But the fourth quarter was bigger in terms of impact. And the reason for that is really kind of simple.

As we went through 2006 and we started looking at products and services and what products we were selling, throughout 2006 particularly -- and let me just talk about the enterprise business and enterprise sales. We were selling equipment that we kind of divided into two buckets. There are some equipment sales that we make that facilitate and pull-through network services, and they are sold as part of a package service, and that is something that we feel good about, and we like the economics on. And it is just business that makes sense to us.

In 2006 we also saw that we had some CPE sales, and it was as much as 20, 30% of our CPE sales that when we looked at them, they were stand-alone sales, did not pull through network services, and they really did not have any margin to them. And we decided at the end of 2006, that is not where we wanted our resources and our focus and our sales force to be focused on.

So we did a couple of things. We made some changes to pricing in terms of how we were going to sell CPE, and probably more importantly, we made changes to our commission plans. The fourth quarter -- and both of those changes, by the way, had the desired impact. And so what we have seen in 2007 generally are lower levels of CPE sales, but the CPE we're selling is part of package deals and is carrying with it reasonable margins. And so we have got the desired result from it.

But then you compound all of that with the fact that fourth quarter is typically a higher quarter for equipment sales, and that is why you saw the impact in the fourth quarter.

When you look at -- when I step back from it and say, okay, how do we get comfortable with the run-rates we are on and the move to mid single digit revenue growth? First of all, the impact from CPE I think as we go into 2008 versus 2007 will be much more on our current run-rate. We will not have the delta that we had between 2007 and 2006.

Secondly, one of the factors that I think is significant to us is we do see that wholesale, which has throughout 2007 had a year-over-year decline in the 7% to 8% range, we feel will stabilize in 2008 and begin to grow for the factors I mentioned in the presentation. That we are nearing the end of consolidation of traffic which has impacted wholesale. That by midyear 2008 we will be at the one year point for some of the price reductions that we put in place as part of our merger conditions. And so that will cease to be a drag. And then finally, the IBM agreement as it begins to phase into 2008 will provide a lift to wholesale revenues.

And then the third factor from a revenue growth standpoint is just the math and the mechanics of the national mass-market business, which at the end of the year was really down to around 2.5% or 2.6% of our total revenues. The drag from that national mass-market decline will be less going forward in 2008 than 2007.

So, as I look at other issues in revenues, obviously the other thing that mid single digit revenue growth hinges on is just maintaining the trends we have seen in the business. And we're actually seeing some acceleration of trends in wireless, which is good to see. We're seeing some acceleration of trends in enterprise, and we're seeing, despite the economic impacts, continued stable trends in regional. So, as we move forward, I think because of those factors it all gives us comfort in continuing to ramp up revenues.

Finally, when you look at wireless margins, as I said, it is not unusual to have wireless margins pull back a little bit in the fourth quarter. When we look at fourth-quarter results, it is almost entirely due to increases in acquisition costs, selling costs, equipment costs, as well as upgrade cost. Fourth quarter is also a high upgrade quarter. So we had about 8.5% of the base upgrade in the fourth quarter, which drives it as well.

I think going forward in wireless, it was a typical fourth quarter I think in terms of pretty aggressive promotions around devices and handsets. But, as we see the results from particularly the higher end devices we're selling, the results in terms of ARPU is very strong. So it gives me a lot of comfort in terms of what we're doing with those devices.

I think a key will be how the market continues in the first quarter. Typically January, or the first part of January, you continue with some pricing and some promotions you had over the holidays, and then the question will be, how does the market develop after that?

But we will get lift. We will get lift from the TDMA shutdown. I would not look for that necessarily in the first quarter. I think we will see that begin to ramp more in the balance of the year. We will shut that network down in the first quarter, but then we still have to remove equipment from sales sites, and we have to get relief from the rents we are paying on the equipment on those sites. We will have to adjust our transport, our infrastructure between the switches and sell sites to reflect removal of that equipment. So there is a lot of work to be done to get the remaining TDMA costs out of the network. So you will see that, but you will see that as we go forward in 2008.

OPERATOR: David Janazzo, Merrill Lynch.

DAVID JANAZZO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: You have spelled out the cost-cutting synergy opportunities, other operational initiatives, and obviously U-verse is going to be a little more dilutive. But I noticed that headcount is increasing. And how does that square with some of the cost cutting and other initiatives?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, we have had some increase in headcount. I would put them -- it's in a number of buckets. One is certainly we are at the same time we're taking force out of the business related to the merger synergies and the other cost initiatives, we are adding force in some areas. For example, we are adding force primarily in terms of technicians and installers for U-verse. And so we're starting to ramp that up, and there's a leadtime to that. We have got to hire people, get them trained and get them on board as we start to launch new markets. So that has been one factor.

We have also as part of our merger conditions, we had made some commitments to bring some jobs back that had been outsourced to bring some jobs back into the country. And so we're following through on those obligations. So there you may see some headcount increases. We're trying to do it in such a way that we can minimize any cost increase from it. So we are eliminating outside contractor costs as we're doing that.

And then finally, we've got some increases that are related to transactions that we have done. So part of the increase is to bring in about 2500, for example, from the Dobson acquisition in November. We're also bringing people on as part of our IBM agreement. As we takeover the network management, much of which or some of which had been done in-house at IBM, we're bringing some employees in there to handle that business.

And finally, we have got some contracts that require us to provide some staffing. For example, we have a government contract in support of the passport offices, for example, and they have had high volumes, and so we have staffed up there. But there is corresponding revenues to go with that.

I think those are the major things that have impacted force. But our force initiatives related to both the synergies and the other cost initiatives continue to be on track.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Credit Suisse.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: A couple of questions. First, on the CPE sales, do you have a sense for where those customers are shifting their purchases? Are they buying them directly from the OEMs, or are they going to some of your competitors who are still heavily discounting those products?

Secondly, the Apple ARPU do you report it net of any payments that would go to Apple in your wireless revenues?

And then third, probably and the more important of the questions, I'm assuming in your stock buyback you're in a window where you cannot buy back. When does that window open up? And if you look at your after-tax cost of borrowing, it is now meaningfully below your yield. And how do you think about leverage in the short term in terms of buying back stock relative to your cost of debt?

RICK LINDNER: Okay. Chris, I will try to knock those off one at a time. In CPE part of the reason for us deemphasizing sales of stand-alone CPE, as I said, is there's very little margin. We found very little margin in that business. Because there are a number of alternatives for companies to purchase essentially whether it be a server or a router or whatever it is, the same piece of equipment. And what you find yourself is you are competing with other dealers of that particular equipment, and you're competing in many cases with the manufacturer itself.

And so I cannot give you any data in terms of where those purchases have gone. But there is a pretty broad range of alternatives available, and that is why it is just not for us a very attractive business.

In terms of ARPU on the iPhone, the iPhone ARPU is reported gross, and sharing or payments are reflected in expense for the iPhone. And that is not different from other relationships we have that we have had for years.

For example, our agents typically as they sell new customers for us, they receive a commission on sale, but they also receive some residuals, some share of revenue, and those are always reported and expensed.

And finally, on stock buyback we have not been in the market in January because of the cause of the earnings release. And so we will resume our share repurchase program starting tomorrow. And certainly we will take advantage of both where borrowing rates are, as well as where the share price is. We have a plan, as you know, to repurchase 400 million shares we spread over this year and next year. But part of the plan includes increasing leverage, not necessarily reducing our credit metrics, but increasing leverage as our cash flow continues to improve.

So we will be as we did in 2007, we will be increasing some leverage in 2008, and we will be using that for share repurchase. So our expectation, as I said, is to be back in the market tomorrow.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions. First, on wireline. In the prior cycle, you guys were really the first to flag the weakness on the consumer wireline side of the business. In large part I think it's due to geographic diversity in the business.

So related to that, the step up in access-line loss here I know you sort of characterize it between non-pay housing starts, but can you talk about it geographically? Is a lot of this tied to Midwest, sort of Ameritech markets, or is it more evenly distributed?

And then the second question, just sort of a follow-up on numerous economic questions. It seems like the economic base case here is still similar to the Analyst Day, which you termed at the time sort of soft landing. If you hypothetically assume that we move to the hard landing scenario, which I'm sure you have run some scenarios on, how would that change your approach to the business? Maybe specifically on the cost side, what are the levers? The CapEx reductions? The reduction at buybacks? Maybe you can step us through how you would think about the levers at that point if we reached it. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jason. First, on the impacts we're seeing in wireline, I have looked at the data, I have looked at it by state and by region, and to be honest with you, I'm not seen any clear patterns by region in terms of changes in the trends. There is certainly some weakness geographically in the Midwest states, Upper Midwest. But if you take some cities there, Detroit for example, they have had issues there for sometime related to the auto industry. So I cannot say what we are seeing is an increase in a particular area at this point. So I don't see any particular patterns there. I think it's more spread across the geography.

And again, when you're talking about a 10 basis point impact on nonpay churn, that is not a huge impact. So you're cutting it pretty fine to try to see it by state or region.

Right now from an economic standpoint, we have got experts that are much more qualified to talk about this certainly in the country than I would be. But we have got experts kind of on both sides in terms of predicting what the economy will do in 2008.

What I would tend to focus on or what I tend to focus on more is what impacts we're seeing in our business. And, as I said, there is -- there are some impacts we have seen as we've talked about in consumer and in access-lines and broadband, but they are not very severe at this point. And I think for us that continues to point to more of the defensive nature of our business.

And in consumer, whether you're looking at wireless or wireline, consumers still are going to want to stay connected. They are going to want to stay connected through voice service, and they are certainly going to want to stay connected for data and broadband service.

And then on top of that, because we're a new entrant, we've got lots of opportunities there on the video side.

As you start to work into business customers, I think the kinds of products we're offering and the solutions we can deliver in IP are really answering problems or issues or challenges that businesses are facing in terms of how to provide greater levels of bandwidth, greater numbers of applications and connectivity throughout their business and to try to do it in a cost-efficient way. That just naturally drives customers to IP, which is a sweet spot for us.

So I think for me what then says as I think of our business continues across the spectrum to be pretty defensive in times like this.

In terms of cost levers, one of the things that we have gotten I think very good at is knowing how and when to tighten our belts on the cost side. And something that I think is still surprising to people overall is the level of costs in our business that tend to be variable. We are reviewed often times as a large network based very fixed cost business. But when you look at the cost in our business, the largest element of cost in our business is force. But when you take that down to the next level, and this surprises people sometimes, it is not force supporting our network, but it is force that is involved in sales and in customer service and in our call centers. And those areas tend to really regulate themselves versus the volumes we're seeing in the business. So as volumes decline, calls into the centers decline. There is always regular attrition in those jobs, and so we are able to adjust our force in those areas pretty easily. And even on the network side, think about the amount of force there that is tied to activity, either installation or repair activity. And so again, as volumes decline, that is pretty self-regulating.

The second-largest area of expense in our business is access, which again also tends to fluctuate with volumes. And so when you put it all together, about 60 to 70% of our expenses are relatively variable with revenues and volumes. So I think that is the other thing that gives us comfort as we go into into a period of time where there's some questions about the strength of the economy.

RICH DIETZ: This will have to be our last question, this next question.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Bear Stearns.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Just a question on -- again, I hate to beat the horse on wireline cost saves, but it looks like the sequential drop in cost of service or cost of sales was fairly dramatic. I'm just trying to get a sense for if there was any sort of onetime impact to the quarter?

And then looking forward, if we have that kind of expense saving run-rate, maybe just your thoughts on if we have wholesale revenue getting more stable with continuation of these cost saves, it seems like margin expansion could ramp towards the back half of the year. Maybe within the wholesale revenue piece of that, can you give us any sense for what percentage might be wireline carrier revenue?

And then secondly, a little more clarity on the merger anniversary. Is there going to be some special access pricing change? I will hit you with one more before I go, which is on postpaid wireless adds. It was a good quarter overall for the adds, but within postpaid still trailing your other competitor out there with a quarter that Sprint put up that was dismal by most measures. Just your sense on how we can take more share of those postpaid subs going forward?

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Mike. First of all, on wireless cost to service, there is no --

MIKE MCCORMACK: Wireline, Rick, sorry.

RICK LINDNER: I'm sorry, wireline cost of service. There is no big drivers there. In fact, when I look, and maybe we need to get into some of the numbers with you individually in more detail. When I look at the wireline business third quarter to fourth quarter, the margins were relatively flat, if you look at EBITDA margins, relatively flat between third quarter, fourth quarter. And what we're seeing there is continued improvement in terms of merger synergies and the other cost initiatives offset by in the fourth quarter I think primarily two factors. One is certainly the continued ramp in U-verse provided a more expense and a little more dilution in the fourth quarter versus third or second quarter of last year. And then secondly, the fourth quarter typically is a little bit lower in terms of revenue simply because of wireline business just lower business days due to the holidays.

So fourth quarter would typically be a lower margin quarter for us. We held it about flat this year, and that was primarily due to improvements in the cost and merger synergies.

MIKE MCCORMACK: I guess the surprise there was typically you have margin pressure because presumably you have a relatively fixed cost base with those fewer business days. You certainly saw it with AT&T Corporation, and I guessed I was surprised by the strong cost reduction this quarter.

RICK LINDNER: Well, we had a nice ramp in some of the merger synergies areas, and we had some I think a very good cost focus in our wireline business, particularly in the regional wireline business. So I think that helped us in the fourth quarter.

In terms of wireless, the postpaid adds, as you said, showed a nice increase year-over-year. And we feel very good about our postpaid sales activity and the volumes we're seeing and the store traffic we're seeing. I think the challenge for us and what we have to do as we go forward into 2008 is to continue to migrate churn levels down. And certainly as we get beyond the TDMA shutdown, I think that will help churn levels reduce. And we need to take another over time another 20 basis points or so out of our postpaid churn, and that will make I think a huge difference.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Do you see opportunity on the Dobson churn as well?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, I think overall I think Dobson will help us. I think we will be able to improve overall Dobson results because we can offer customers in the Dobson areas I think a much more robust product portfolio.

And secondly, we will see some churn improvement because we will be taking some -- or we will see some margin improvement because we will be taking some roaming costs out. And just having those areas and being able to better tie them into our networks, we will spend a little money on improving network quality in some of those areas, and that will drive better churn for us as well.

A good example is Dobson has an area north here of San Antonio, and it is an area where a lot of people in the San Antonio Metropolitan area travel to. And so I think the ability to tie that into our network will provide a better customer experience and better churn rates there.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Do you have anything on the wholesale revenue for us and what percentage might be coming from that wireline carrier revenue base?

RICK LINDNER: I don't have that percentage for you, Mike, but generally the wireline carrier base revenues have been declining because that is where in effect you see the impact of consolidation in some areas. We're continuing to see very good growth in wireless, and we're seeing some growth in international. I think where we have opportunities going forward, it is going to be in some of the things we mentioned and in particular the IBM agreement.

RICH DIETZ: Okay. Well, that will conclude our question-and-answer session. Rick has some closing comments before we adjourn for the morning. Rick?

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Rich, and thanks to all of you for being on the call with us today. I just reiterate I think we had a very good fourth quarter, certainly terrific wireless growth. We're very excited about what we saw in the fourth quarter from a wireless standpoint. Excellent momentum continues in enterprise, which I think is a good sign for us, as well as stable revenue trends in regional operations.

We continued to focus and push cost synergies, and they continue to run ahead of schedule, and all of that contributes to continued double-digit growth in adjusted EPS and strong free cash flow. Along with that free cash flow, we're happy to report more than $19 billion return to shareowners in 2007 through dividends and stock buybacks.

I think as you can tell overall we're very proud of the 2007 results. But I think what is more important, frankly, today is I believe the opportunities that still lie ahead for us. We have good momentum in some key areas of the business that will allow us to ramp topline growth. We continue to have substantial opportunities to remove costs. We're on track with the initiatives that we outlined for you in December, and all of that gives us confidence in reaffirming our outlook and our ability to drive strong results in 2008.

As I said at the analyst conference last month, I think AT&T today has a very strong financial profile. We're a financially disciplined Company. We're capable of sustained double-digit growth and adjusted earnings per share. We are a strong free cash flow Company and a Company that is committed to returning value to shareowners with a strong dividend yield. And I think that profile, along with some of the defensive characteristics of the business that we talked about today, makes us especially attractive in the current economic and market environment.

I want to thank you all again for taking part in the call today and as always for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thank you, Rick, and thank all of you. That will conclude our call for today.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for participating in the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings release 2007 conference call. This concludes your conference for today. You may all disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080131e41o000ph
  


 HD
 Q3  2007  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,681 words
   PD
23 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T third-quarter earnings release 2007 conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Dietz, Senior Vice President Investor Relations. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

RICH DIETZ, SVP, IR, AT&T: Great. Thank you, Christine, and good morning, everyone. It's great to have all of you with us as we cover our third-quarter results this morning. Joining me on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer.

   TD
Earlier this morning we issued our release, investor briefing, supplementary information and presentation slides, all of which are on Investor Relations page of the AT&T website, that's www.AT&T.com/investor.relations .

Before I get started I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise. This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation between non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our website, AT&T.com/Investor Relations.

Okay, with that covered let's start with EPS comparisons which is on slide 4 of our presentation. Adjusted EPS for the third quarter was $0.71, that's up 12.7% from a year ago results. That's our 10th straight quarter of double-digit EPS -- adjusted EPS growth. Reported EPS for this quarter was $0.50. We had $0.21 of merger costs and purchase accounting effects and the result is $0.71 adjusted EPS.

In our third-quarter results we did not adjust for $171 million in items related to legal matters, nonmerger, severance and other nonrecurring adjustments which reduced third-quarter operating income and margins and lowered EPS by about $0.02. At the net income level this onetime expense pressure was offset by adjustments to federal and state income tax liabilities. These tax items also were not adjusted for in our third-quarter results.

With that background I'll now turn it over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T: Thanks, Rich. Good morning, everyone. Let me begin on slide 6 which provides an overview of our results. We had an excellent third quarter, we're delivering on the targets we laid out for you, we're ramping revenue growth and cash flow continues to be strong. In wireless we had 2 million net adds, our best third quarter ever. In enterprise we had positive growth in recurring service revenues this quarter, and in both total and recurring enterprise revenues we posted our second straight quarter of sequential growth.

These improvements in wireless and enterprise allowed us to ramp consolidated revenue growth and this was our 5th straight quarter of improved total top-line growth. At the same time we continue to deliver on merger synergies; as a result margins were solid and free cash flow continues to be strong. We now expect full-year free cash flow after dividends of $6 billion to $7 billion, as you know, that's above the updated range we provided last quarter. And we continue to return substantial value to shareowners. We repurchased $2 billion worth of our shares in the quarter, $8.9 billion year-to-date, and combined with dividends that's $15.5 billion returned to shareowners this year.

Before I cover the operational results in more detail let me comment briefly on some of the strategic steps we took during the quarter. Slide 7 lays out some of our recent initiatives. For AT&T and for the industry growth is increasingly coming from robust data centric mobility services, from business markets, and from converged services as customers expect seamless interactivity across wireless, broadband, traditional voice and video service platforms. Our focus is concentrated on these areas as we work to innovate, to build smart alliances, define markets and build a foundation for sustained growth.

First, as you've seen with our Dobson and Aloha announcements, we've taken steps to expand our wireless coverage and our spectrum position. We've also been aggressive with exclusive launches of cutting-edge wireless devices that raise the bar in terms of data services and entertainment options. The Apple iPhone is certainly part of that and there are a host of others.

We've also taken steps to add expertise and products to our enterprise portfolio. The latest is the addition of Interwise, a global Internet Web conference provider. And we also expanded our alliance with IBM to make AT&T IBM's primary network management provider. We're making terrific progress with our U-verse video service; install rates and deployment are both ramping as planned. And we're doing a number of things to drive convergence across wireless, broadband and traditional landline voice.

For example, we've launched a wireless broadband bundle and we've had a strong response to the relaunch of our AT&T Unity plan which created the nation's largest calling community with more than 120 million AT&T wireless and wired phone numbers.

In concert with this focus we're doing significant work to reposition the AT&T brand. Brand migration work is largely complete, that's changing over the Singular and BellSouth names to AT&T, and customer awareness levels already rate very high. So now we're focusing on the next transition, that's to build into the AT&T brand a new world of capabilities and customer expectations.

With those comments as a backdrop, now let me cover for you the quarter in some more detail. Slide 8 shows earnings per share growth and margin expansion. As Rich mentioned, before merger-related affects our third-quarter EPS was $0.71. Our adjusted consolidated operating income margin was 23.7%, that's up more than 400 basis points year-over-year, but down just slightly sequentially.

However, it's important to note that we did not include in our adjustments this quarter $171 million in items related to some legal matters, nonmerger severance related to our IBM agreements and other nonrecurring items. These charges increased operating expenses which negatively impacted the consolidated adjusted operating margin by about 60 basis points and impacted our wireline adjusted operating margin by 100 basis points. But meanwhile at the EPS level these impacts were offset by benefits from tax adjustments.

We continue to expect to operate at the top end of the 23 to 24% adjusted operating margin range and, of course, we expect to deliver continued double-digit growth in adjusted EPS this year and next. A key driver to our margin strength is expense savings from merger initiatives and we continue to run ahead of schedule on AT&T Corp. and BellSouth/Singular merger synergies. Slide 9 provides you an update. Last year we achieved $1.1 billion in savings from SBC/ AT&T integration, that's a combination of both expense and capital savings. And through the first three quarters of this year we've realized $2.8 billion, 70% of that total is expense related and the remainder is capital savings.

We are on or ahead of schedule in key areas such as network and traffic consolidation, labor savings and rebranding. Brand awareness for AT&T is at targeted levels. 95% of our company-owned retail stores have been rebranded and we expect to reach 100% in December. And 100% of our vehicles have been rebranded.

Most importantly though, I believe we still have a lot of headroom in terms of cost reduction. We continue to expect merger synergy run rates to exceed $5 billion next year growing to more than $6 billion in 2009, but frankly we think of those numbers as simply the baseline. Beyond basic merger synergies we currently have multiyear initiatives underway in areas such as IT, network and customer care that offer substantial cost benefits and you'll hear more about those at our analyst conference in December.

I think the most promising trendline in our results this quarter though is the ramp we're delivering on top-line revenues. Slide 10 shows our revenue growth trajectory. The chart here shows total revenue verses pro forma results for 2006 which combine AT&T, BellSouth and Singular and take out the accounting affects associated with advertising and publishing from the BellSouth transaction. Revenue growth rates have been steadily improving and this quarter we took a dramatic step up. Year-over-year revenue growth was 3.2% and we had sequential revenue growth of 1.8%. The drivers are strong double-digit growth in wireless, improved trends in enterprise in solid regional results.

We had just an excellent growth quarter in wireless; the details are on slide 11. Gross adds were up significantly; we generated 2 million net subscriber adds during the quarter; and over the past four quarters we've grown our wireless subscriber base by 7 million, all organically. We've also grown ARPU, total ARPU was up 2%, our fifth straight quarter of year-over-year ARPU growth, and postpaid ARPU was even stronger, up more than 5% year-over-year. The result is continued solid double-digit wireless revenue growth with total wireless revenues of $10.9 billion in the quarter and service revenues of $9.9 billion.

Our network coverage is excellent, our sales presence is strong, brand awareness has made big moves in the right direction. We're setting the pace with cutting-edge handsets and these are all contributing to very strong momentum in wireless.

In addition to subscriber growth, the other big driver behind wireless performance is growth in data and the highlights are on slide 12. Year-over-year wireless data revenue growth was 64% taking us to $1.8 billion for the quarter, an annualized revenue base of more than $7 billion at this point. This was our fifth quarter of wireless data revenue growth above 60%. This growth reflects strong increases in both consumer and business data usage including e-mail, media bundles, Internet access, laptop connectivity, smart phone connectivity and enterprise vertical market solutions. Data now accounts for more than 18% of total wireless service revenues and more than $11 of our post paid ARPU.

And as strong as that growth has been, it's clear to us we're still in the early stages of wireless data growth; there is a huge opportunity in front of us. At this point nearly 40 million of our subscribers are active data users, that's up more than 30% over the past year, but I think an important point is that only 35% of our postpaid subscribers today are on monthly wireless data plans and growing that number is a significant opportunity in the future.

Adoption of data centric handsets is on the rise. Devices like the iPhone and the AT&T Tilt are ratcheting up customer expectations and redefining the market. And 3G growth is just getting underway. Today we have approximately 7 million customers using 3G devices, that's nearly triple the total two quarters ago. And most importantly, data ARPU for our 3G customers is almost double that of the average 2G postpaid customer.

We're attacking that data opportunity in a number of ways, including cutting-edge handsets and innovative data and entertainment services. We've highlighted some of these on slide 13. Our scale, coverage and distribution make a compelling combination not only for customers but for strategic partners as well and we've launched a number of high-profile handset exclusives. The iPhone is certainly the leading example and it continues to generate strong sales. Currently we've activated more than 1.1 million iPhones with more than 40% of those as new customers to AT&T. And most recently we launched the AT&T Tilt, the first AT&T enabled Windows 6 smart device.

We're selling a higher percentage of data rich devices; the iPhone and the Tilt certainly fit that category, as does the new BlackBerry 8820 which adds Wi-Fi capabilities to the BlackBerry experience. AT&T continues to be the world's largest provider of BlackBerry services. In addition, we've introduced the Sierra Wireless Laptop Connect Card, the first device that's fully compatible with the latest generation of HSPA technologies that we're deploying throughout our 3G network.

We're also loading up on richer entertainment options. We just recently announced that starting in November we'll have Napster's more than 5 million full track music library available through our service for over the air download. That gives AT&T the largest and most complete music solution among national wireless carriers.

With our wireless platform in the lead we're delivering services that converge communications and entertainment and converge wireless and wireline. The AT&T Unity plan for example gives customers who sign up for both AT&T wireline and wireless services the option of having a free calling community of all AT&T phone numbers, some 120 million. That service took off in the third quarter with our in-service total growing nearly fourfold from the second quarter.

In addition, we're doing more to converge customers' wireline broadband experience with their wireless experience. As I mentioned earlier, we now market a wireless broadband bundle and we've launched a service called MediaNet which gives customers new Web-based tools to manage their wireless homepage from their PC or from their handset. We're being aggressive as we work to expand customers' options and to make their experiences on our networks richer.

Now while we drove very strong wireless gross adds in the third quarter, and those were accompanied by some 4 million handset upgrades, at the same time we expanded margins, the highlights are on slide 14. Versus the year-ago quarter our third-quarter adjusted wireless operating income was up 54%, that's an increase of more than $1 billion. Our adjusted operating margin was up 680 basis points and our adjusted service EBITDA margin was 39.1%, up 350 basis points.

There are a lot of drivers which we've covered with you in the past including strong revenue growth, reduced churn and merger integration. We continue to improve our network cost structure. And the IT systems migration and the consolidation of IT systems that we outlined as part of our merger integration are now nearly complete. The unwind of our California/Nevada network joint venture is also nearly complete with 98% of our customers in those areas now on our own network. But the shutdown of our TDMA network is still ahead. We moved 560,000 subscribers off that network in the third quarter and we have about 780,000 that remain with roughly two-thirds of them resale customers.

Our view of margin potential going forward has not changed. For next year we expect margins will expand further to a full-year average in the lower 40% range with clear opportunities for additional expansion beyond 2008.

The other key area of substantial improvement is the ramp that we're seeing in enterprise, the details are on slide 15. The chart here is the one we've provided for the past several quarters, it shows year-over-year growth rates for total enterprise revenues, excluding CPE sales and M&A impacts. As you see, this quarter we moved into positive category, up 0.3%, and momentum is good. This was our second quarter with sequential growth in enterprise revenues.

There are a number of drivers -- demand is solid; data transport volumes are strong; IP services, which include virtual private networks, managed Internet services and hosting, grew 21.6% year-over-year; VPN revenues were up more than 30%; hosting revenues were up 19%. We currently have 36 data centers in operation around the globe and by the end of this year we expect to have 38 deployed. And across our enterprise portfolio, best of all we're winning contracts including our first under the GSA Networx contract.

To drive sustained growth you've seen us take the initiative to expand our capabilities for enterprise customers. We announced an expansion of our alliance with IBM to be their primary network management services provider and we expect that will add approximately $1 billion in revenues annually over the next five years with most initially flowing to the wholesale category. We also announced plans to acquire Interwise, a leading global Web Internet conferencing provider. So our enterprise growth trajectory continues to improve and the assets we've added and the alliances we've built will help us continue to build on that progress.

Now while we drive toward growth in enterprise, we've sustained solid results in regional business. Slide 16 provides a quick update. Regional business revenues grew by 3.4% in the quarter, revenues from small and midsize firms continue to be solid, up 6% consistent with recent results. Regional business data revenues grew 6.9%, the same as last quarter. Data transport revenues in this category posted solid mid single digit growth; IP data services were up nearly 10% led by DSL, hosting and VPN. And voice revenues also continue to grow in regional business, access lines increased in the quarter as they have over the past several orders and churn remains stable.

Slide 17 shows regional consumer trends, which, despite increasing cable competition, continue to deliver stable revenues consistent with results in this category over the past several quarters. Our broadband penetration of consumer lines moved to 37% in the third quarter and in our West region broadband penetration is above 44%. Consumer video penetration moved up to 6.7%, that's a combination of both satellite and U-verse TV. With games in broadband and video more than offsetting declines in traditional voice access lines, over the past year we've had a net gain in regional consumer connections of 895,000 and as a result our consumer ARPU based on primary lines was up 3.7%.

As we show on slide 18, we also had a solid broadband quarter with a net gain in total broadband subscribers of 499,000. We now have 13.8 million broadband connections, up 18.6% or 2.2 million over the past year. 44% of our consumer broadband customers now take speed tiers of 3 megabits or more, and our wireline broadband revenues grew 14% to 1.4 billion in the third quarter, an annualized revenue stream of more than $5 billion.

We believe there's a substantial opportunity for broadband still ahead from the millions of dial-up users that remain, from cable subscribers who are choosing our platform, and from a new generation of consumers who are looking for a robust combination of wireless and broadband. To that end, in August we launched a trial broadband wireless offer that's a combination of a wireless device for voice along with a DSL line for broadband and response was good. We're now moving forward to sell that combination across our footprint.

As I mentioned at the outset, we're seeing a very strong ramp in U-verse, slide 19 has the highlights. Six months ago we had 13,000 U-verse video subscribers and at the end of the third quarter we had 126,000. Service is now available in portions of 33 markets, install rates have climbed throughout the third quarter, and at quarters' end our install rate already approached our year-end goal of 10,000 per week, that's up from 5,500 a week three months ago. Our technicians are gaining experience and expertise and we're climbing the learning curve of video quickly.

Now let me close with a few comments on cash flow -- that's on slide 20. Throughout the first three quarters of the year cash from operations totaled more than 24 billion and free cash flow after dividends totaled $5.5 billion. We now expect free cash flow after dividends for the full year to come in between $6 billion and $7 billion, that's up from the outlook we provided last quarter. This cash gives us the flexibility to invest in the future of our business and return substantial value to shareowners.

Year-to-date we have executed 8.9 billion in share repurchases and we've paid $6.6 billion in dividends for a total return of value to shareowners exceeding $15 billion. We currently have 86 million shares remaining in our current repurchase authorization and we expect to continue with repurchases in the fourth quarter.

So in summary I think virtually by every measure we had a strong third quarter. We accelerated our revenue ramp driven by strong wireless results and advances in enterprise. Merger synergies continue on plan. Margins continue to run at the high end of our full-year outlook. We delivered a 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow is strong and growing. Combined there are a lot of reasons to be optimistic and those include the good momentum that we have in wireless, in enterprise, in broadband, in video and in converged services.

With that, Rich, why don't we stop here and we'll open up the lines for questions?

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thank you, Rick. Christine, we're now ready for the question-and-answer session if you would begin, please.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. A couple questions. First, on video -- U-verse momentum clearly picking up, can you talk about the addressable footprint, the percentage of homes you'd expect to ultimately hit with U-verse? It seems like if you look at recent comments on pair bonding, etc., talking about extending the reach, it seems like you'd be able to ultimately really expand the addressable market, you could hit over your own facilities.

And then I guess the second part of that question is there's obviously been a lot of speculation in the market recently about a satellite component under your ownership. How would you sort of fit the two together? It seems like the two actually would run counter to each other.

And then second question on wireless -- Rick, you talked about postpaid wireless data ARPU. And I think your comments implied something in the $20 range for postpaid data ARPU on the 3G user base specifically. As you think about sort of framing the opportunity, does this level set the opportunity in terms of pricing and then the volume component is sort of driven by 3G handset adoption, is that sort of how we should think about it?

RICK LINDNER: Okay, Jason. A lot of questions in there, let me try to pick those off. First of all, on video and the video footprint, as you know, our plans right now to build would cover in the neighborhood of 55% to 60% I think eventually of the households within our footprint. When you look at that base in terms of what's addressable, I think here are some key facts.

First of all, within that footprint 80% or more of the homes are at 3,000 feet or less, and given where we are and where we see the technology heading, where compression technology is heading on HD our standard offer could be offered to all homes within 3,000 feet without pair bonding. When you go beyond that and you start looking at pair bonding it gives you the opportunity to open up the vast majority of that base to the standard offer and in fact to be able to offer to 80, 90% of that base with pair bonding, multiple HD streams, higher broadband speeds.

And so over time we expect that base to be largely addressable. There will always be some outliers that are, just by virtue of geography, a long way from the fiber at the node. But even in some of those situations as neighborhoods grow you've got the option to split nodes and take fiber closer to some of those homes so you eventually pick up those as well.

As you all know, you mentioned DBS and there's it seems like always speculation in the marketplace, but we just don't comment on M&A rumors or M&A speculation, never have and won't do that. With respect to our strategy and what we want to do with video and how DBS fits within that strategy, nothing has changed there. We want to be able to offer a video alternative to customers across our base and our preference, certainly where we can do that over our own network through a U-verse solution, is to do it by that means. What our commercial agreements with DBS providers allow us to do is fill in the rest of that footprint and offer solutions then across our entire customer base.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Rick, can I just follow up on that? When you talk about your customer base specifically as it relates to video, are you talking about the broader customer base including the wireless footprint as obviously national? Or are you talking about the most logical extension of the bumble right now which is wired voice, data and video?

RICK LINDNER: We're talking about I think primarily, Jason, that what you consider that logical extension. It's the footprint within our 22 states. You also asked about wireless 3G and ARPU and I think that's a tremendous opportunity for us and I think the numbers you had are about right. We've got -- right now we're running about $11 of data ARPU in our postpaid base, but those customers that have adopted 3G handsets are running nearly double that, they're in the $20 to low $20 range and they're currently running at about 30% or a little over 30% of data as a percentage of their total ARPU.

I think that kind of frames the opportunity out there, at least in the near-term. Now certainly the first 7 million will tend to be more early adopters of data services, and that's why they're opting to go with the 3G handsets, but I do think that helps define the opportunity.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a question on free cash flow. I saw the better guides there, $6 billion to $7 billion now, and just looking out into '08, if you start '07 say in the midpoint of the range at 6.5, you add the $2 billion in incremental synergies, the accelerating revenue growth and the operational savings that you guys are talking about, you're talking about a big increase in free cash flow on a year-over-year basis.

How should we think about getting more of that cash into shareholder's hands, whether it's through buybacks or dividends? If you could just comment on what your current thinking is with these higher numbers. And then Rick, if I could ask you to give us a little preview of the conference. In the past you've said that the operational savings -- I think Randall had laid out about $500 million in incremental annual savings the last time we went through this. Are we thinking a similar number this time going forward?

RICK LINDNER: We're talking, John, about just nonmerger cost opportunities.

JOHN HODULIK: You got it.

RICK LINDNER: Let me take that one first. We'll lay out at the conference -- as we typically have in the past, we'll lay out a view of the business, where we see opportunities, where our focus is going to be, we'll have presentations from each of the major business units as well as share with you a view from the Chairman in terms of overall company strategy, and share with you some of the things that we see occurring in the business from a network and technology standpoint and in particular how the technologies are converging between wireless and wireline for example, and how we can utilize that going forward with the assets we currently own.

As part of that we'll lay out as well where we see opportunities to take cost out of the business. And I'm not going to go into any numbers at this point. I think we'll wait for the conference to do that, but we'll lay out for you where we see the opportunities. But the other thing you should think about in terms of what's going on right now in the business and what will be going on certainly as we look forward over the next year or two. This business and this industry is going through change and transformation at a rapid pace.

We're seeing changes in technology, we're seeing the way people communicate changing, and certainly we're seeing traffic migrating to mobile applications and mobility is increasing in importance. But we're also seeing customers that continue to want the kind of bandwidth and the service quality that is available through wired technology. And that's where we believe opportunities are for us.

But to make those kinds of transitions this business is going through, what we have to do is we have to continue to become more efficient and harvest cost out of the business, but at the same time we're going to be reinvesting in new technologies, we're going to be incurring acquisition costs to grow top-line revenues in areas where we have opportunities like in video. And so you'll see a balance between the two.

In other words, I don't want you to think of it simply as merger synergies and other cost opportunities and that creates all of this excess cash flow that all comes back to shareowners. We're going to generate a lot of cash, we're going to continue to be very shareowner friendly with the use of cash, but at the same time we're going to be investing in areas of the business that we think prepare this company for the future and give us the opportunity to continue to ramp top-line growth.

And so as you go forward beyond 2007, I think we've laid out a pretty clear pattern of how we look at cash and how we utilize cash from a shareowner perspective. And you should continue to expect good growth and consistent annual growth and dividends from us. And at the same time you should expect to see that when we have excess cash beyond that that we're not utilizing back into reinvesting in the business, that we're going to be utilizing that to repurchase shares. So I don't think you'll see anything directionally that's different from what you're seeing from us this year.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, JPMorgan Securities.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, JPMORGAN SECURITIES: Good morning. Just a quick question on wireless if I may. It seems like wireless EBITDA margins are consistently tracking ahead of expectations or at least they're consistently tracking ahead of our expectations. And I'm wondering how much of the expansion in margin that is coming from the ARPU growth that you're getting, I'm wondering if you could give us an idea, particularly on the data side, what the incremental margins are.

And then there's one piece of the wireless business -- the only piece of the wireless business where it seems like you're falling behind to some extent is in selling data cards. And it seems like you might be hamstrung to some extent by what seems to be a slower than expected rollout in your HSDPA footprint. It just seems like that is ultimately going to be a very attractive market segment with high ARPU and low churn. I'm just wondering how you're looking at that strategically, whether it doesn't make sense to accelerate your HSDPA rollout to get as much of that market as possible? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Good questions, Jonathan. First of all, on the wireless EBITDA margins, we're working real hard to try to stay ahead of you analysts at least on one or two metrics. You're doing a pretty good job these days of keeping up with us. But on wireless EBITDA margins, we are pleased with the growth that we're seeing, and the growth comes from particularly the last quarter or two I think from the two primary drivers. One is the growth in customers and in ARPU which is -- and that ARPU growth is largely driven by data.

But the other piece of it is that we continue to now refine our cost structure, particularly on the network side. And so we're able to -- we've been in a position because of our acquisition of AT&T Wireless and the integration of those networks we've been in a position this year where we've been able to continue to groom our networks. We have -- throughout our footprint we have good spectrum positions. We have dense cell site grids, we have equipment available, particularly 2G equipment, EDGE equipment available that we're able to deploy for capacity reasons. And so we've been able to leverage that and we'll continue leverage that as we go into next year to drive margins.

A lot of those things are kind of interconnected so it's hard for me -- I'd have to make some assumptions and do some math to kind of break it down in terms of where we see the -- what component drives the EBITDA margin growth how many basis points. But we are leveraging that network position so we're able to grow ARPU, grow customers, grow revenues and keep our network expenses relatively flat.

If you step back from the business and you look year-over-year we're up 350 basis points, I would look at it kind of like this -- we've actually seen in the business probably a 600 basis point improvement operationally -- that is a function of merger synergies, network improvements, increases in ARPU and increases in customers -- 600 basis points improvement. We have reinvested probably 250 basis points back into the business to make sure that we are competitive in terms of our acquisition costs and our handset offers. That part of the market has gotten more competitive over the last year, but the net result for us is the 350 basis point improvement that you see.

The data cards I think and the 3G rollout is a good question. First of all, what you'll see as we go forward in the fourth quarter, we have been building 3G footprint and capacity and we'll be turning up a number of markets as we go through the fourth quarter as well as expanding our footprint in existing markets. So we are investing in 3G and you'll see us continue to invest. And now as we're getting more 3G devices out there we'll expand that footprint in 2008.

The other thing that's important is the Sierra Wireless card that I mentioned is the first card that really takes full advantage of the HSPA upgrade that we're doing across the network that increases both the uplink and downlink speeds of our UMTS networks significantly, and so you'll see that begin to rollout. We have been, versus a couple of competitors, a little slower in 3G rollout, but we've also had I think the luxury overall from a data experience of having a better data experience across our footprint by nature of the fact that we have EDGE across our entire footprint.

And while EDGE is a slower data speed, it is us certainly a faster speed and a better experience than the 2G alternatives that other carriers have had. So EDGE provides a good base across the footprint and then has allowed us to build 3G on top. And of course, 3G is backwards compatible with EDGE across all our devices. But you'll see us accelerate that as we go through the fourth quarter and into 2008.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot, good morning. I have a couple questions on video. Some very good metrics in terms of U-verse adds. Can you help us on the side of the economics a little bit? How are you trending in terms of cost to pass, cost to install, ARPU trends and anything on sort of churn or where the dilution is trending over the next couple of quarters? And then on the DBS side, are you still intending to have one partnership across your footprint with either DirecTV or Dish and what is the timing for signing new contracts there? Thank you.

RICK LINDNER: Simon, first of all good morning. And on video, let me give you a feel for some of the other metrics. I think they continue to be very consistent with trends we've shared earlier. There's no real change in the expectation or guidance we've had on the cost side in terms of the build. The build cost per home is continuing to run in the kind of low $300 range per home. And again, there's no real change there.

In terms of acquisition cost and installation cost, we're continuing to work to move our installation time, labor time down on new installations. We'd like to get that down eventually to about a four-hour installation to where an installer can do on average two installs per day. Across the base right now we're at about seven hours; in markets where we have more experienced installation technicians we're below that and those continue to get better.

As we introduce next year some additional devices, largely the intelligent network interface device, that will help us as well take some time off the installation. And we continue to work across our base to generate best practices to reduce installation times. One of those, for example, is preloading the software on all of the set-top boxes, that was causing some downtime at the installation, and so now those boxes are being preloaded from a software perspective and therefore installation times will come down.

In terms of some of the customer metrics in ARPU, we're still seeing over 50% of customers taking our top two videos tiers and nearly 60% of customers taking our top two data speeds. And when you look across the combination of those, that produces ARPUs that if they're in the top two tiers of video and data will produce ARPUs on a recurring basis, just the normal monthly charge, of between $100 and $129 and then of course any video-on-demand or other charges right on top of that.

So all in all, what we're seeing I think is consistent with what we've shared before, it's certainly consistent with the plans we've had as we ramp the product this year and continue to ramp it into the fourth quarter.

SIMON FLANNERY: And on the satellite partnerships?

RICK LINDNER: On the satellite side, as we've said before, we have commercial agreements and contracts in place with both EchoStar and DirecTV, and we will continue to honor those contracts. And as those contracts either expire or have windows, then we will announce plans going forward. I would expect that to occur near the end of this year -- end of this year, beginning of next year.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. Just had a couple follow-ups. I wanted to ask the wireless question maybe a little bit differently. It seems like the rapid pace of growth that you experienced in the quarter, if you actually look over the last couple of quarters, is diluting where margins could have gotten to in the short-term, actually could have diluted earnings to where they could have gotten in the short-term. And as you look at your margin guidance for next year in wireless, is there an implicit expectation in the subscriber slowdown in terms of the pace of net additions?

The second question I had was on UNE-P, actually. As that base of customers continue to wind down, is it reasonable to expect the rate of retail line loss to pick up, just as cable and wireless takes a certain percentage of customers from you every year? Or is the triple-play efforts that you have enough to actually hold down that rate of primary retail line loss? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Good questions, Michael. On wireless additions and margins, I think the growth in the quarter, the increase in gross adds certainly has some impact on margins, as does the upgrades that we see as new handsets and new devices come out. So, as I mentioned in the presentation, we had about four million upgrades during the quarter.

As we go into next year, I think we have modeled the environment where we would expect over time some slowing in terms of net adds relative to penetration, but still a fairly strong market in terms of gross adds and a very competitive market in terms of handset pricing in devices.

I think one of the things that is driving that are the factors that I mentioned earlier on data, particularly around 3G, is there is some real benefits to getting more 3G devices, more data applications out there in terms of our ability to increase data ARPUs and sell more data packages. So I don't see an environment there that's significantly different from this year in terms of impacting margins.

I think the growth for us on the margin side will continue to come from a combination of growth in data ARPU as well as continued improvements on the cost side, particularly for next year in network as we bring the TDMA network down. That's something that over the course of the year we'll be able take additional cost out of the business and I think those will be the drivers of margin improvement as we going to 2008.

As UNE-P continues to wind down, I don't know whether that causes -- I don't know that that per se causes then a corresponding increase in retail line loss. I think it's more a factor -- I think the trend, in terms of what we've seen, the trend in retail and total consumer line loss tends to go with the launch of competitors in new markets and the time period they've been in those markets. Because obviously in the early stages they increase penetration faster and then after they've been in the market for a period of time the rate of penetration slows somewhat.

And if you look at, for example, this third quarter -- we would always certainly want to see less line loss and strive to reduce the amount of line loss, but this quarter in consumer, and this is a combination of both retail and wholesale, switch consumer line loss was up versus third quarter of last year about 47,000 lines, it was a pretty nominal increase. Last quarter it was almost flat with the year before, and that's despite the fact that cable competition in terms of the number of households where we're facing cable competition is up year-over-year about 30%.

So I think that for us is a positive sign looking forward that the offers we bring to the table, the fact that we are increasing our penetration in our base of both broadband and video I think has served to put us in a position where we can compete -- are competing very well, compete very well going forward.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Lehman Brothers.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks for taking the question. Just a couple quick ones. I didn't hear you discuss, but I may have missed it, the outage that you had in U-verse over the weekend. I was wondering if you could tell us whether the problem has been identified and is this incident going to impact any sales effort as we head into the fourth quarter? And then secondly, can you just discuss the pipeline in enterprise? Are you seeing any slowdown at all related to some of the economic factors out there? Thank you very much.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Tom. First of all on the U-verse, we had a U-verse outage on this past Sunday. The U-verse outage was caused by a software load that we put into our systems on Saturday night and that software load unfortunately impacted the database that's used to track and maintain the programming packages that customers are subscribed to. And what that caused on Sunday is it caused customers to lose some channels for part of the day on Sunday. And when the problem was identified we were able to quickly restore all of the local channels, we were able to quickly restore most of the national channels that are most frequently watched, and then over the course of the day Sunday we restored all of the channels.

In most cases customers did not have to do anything for those channels to be restored, it was automatically done in the system. In some cases they could accelerate the restoration of channels by just hitting the reset button on the set-top box. And so from our standpoint certainly the outage was regrettable, it was an error in the software load, and we are providing customers with some credits to compensate for that inconvenience. But it's one that, obviously since we've identified what the issue is, we're going to work to make sure that it does not happen again. But I think an important thing to note is it didn't have anything to do with the basic platform or the scaling of the platform, it was unfortunately a software load into our OSS systems that drove it.

On the enterprise side, the truth is we're seen very good momentum, a very good pipeline right now. And for example, the good results that we saw in this quarter were at least partially due to deals that we've talked about with you earlier in the year. For example, the General Motors contract that we mentioned a quarter or two ago is starting to produce revenues that were recognized this quarter. Likewise the treasury contract that we announced recently will start to provide revenues as we go into fourth quarter and certainly next year.

I think the IBM agreements that we reached and announced will be key for us going forward. It positions us as the primary network provider for IBM both internally for their networks as well as externally to customers that they provide data and other services to. So I think that's frankly a terrific partnership and that combined with other contracts that we'll be able to bid on as part of networks will also be key.

We're seeing good growth this quarter in our government business. That's one where, frankly, over the last year it's lagged a little bit our own expectations, but we're starting to see some nice growth there. So overall we're very pleased with the pipeline and with the trajectory that we're seeing in the enterprise business right now.

TOM SEITZ: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Bear Stearns.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: A couple quick ones. A follow-up on John's question on 2008 free cash flow. Can you -- without obviously giving any particular guidance, but directionally when you think about improving synergies potentially offset by what was presumably very low CapEx at Singular this year, maybe more U-verse spending as well as potential spectrum purchases, just your outlook on available cash flow to shareholders next year directionally?

And secondly, on the Wireline margins it looked like you had some pressure there, both year-over-year and sequentially, in the face of improving revenue trends. Just trying to get a sense for what the cost pressures were that caused that -- outside of the onetime letters that you defined?

RICK LINDNER: I'm thinking to think, Mike, how to answer your '08 free cash flow question without giving guidance, that's a tough call there. I would say this, we expect continued strong growth in free cash flow. We will also be increasing dividends as a result of that as we go into 2008 and we have a couple of cash requirements, if you will, outside of capital expenditures, that's namely we'll be closing between -- hopefully between now and year end the Dobson acquisition. And then as we go into next year, upon approval, we'll be closing the Aloha acquisition. And then we've announced that we will participate in the 700 MHz auctions.

But in addition to just free cash flow that we're producing, we are pretty much at and within the credit ranges, credit metrics, balance sheet metrics that we target. And so as we grow cash flow into 2008 and beyond it gives us opportunity also to increase leverage. And so I would just tell you, I would expect -- you should expect to see substantial cash that will be available to shareowners both in terms of dividends and dividend growth as well as share repurchases as we go through next year.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Rick, when you're looking at next year's debt profile, I know there are a couple of maybe some short-term maturities, is there a preference there to stay where you are in total debt or you're saying we could even leverage further based on your comment a second ago?

RICK LINDNER: Well, I think you'll see -- similar to this year you'll see us increase our leverage slightly. And we'll stay in kind of a 1-4 debt to EBITDA kind of range, 1-4 to 1-5.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay.

RICK LINDNER: On the wireline side, you mentioned -- there are some impacts that are both positive and negative in wireline margins. Certainly the onetime items we booked in the quarter -- and normally these are items that we wouldn't normalize and normally highlight because in most quarters they tend to offset one another. This quarter just happened to be we had some items that were negative, that were recorded as part of operating expense and operating income. We had some items and adjustments that were positive on the income tax line and so we felt we ought to mention those and put that information out there because it impacted both our operating margins as well as our affected tax rate.

The $171 million in operating expenses, as I mentioned earlier, impacted wireline margins by roughly 100 basis points. In addition to that, what you're seeing is two factors in wireline, primarily one is increases quarter-by-quarter in synergies that are achieved and attained and so that's helping margins. At the same time, as we said from the beginning of this year, as we roll out U-verse it will start to ramp in the third quarter and the fourth quarter and that will drive acquisition cost and it will drive hiring, for example, of premise technicians and it will drive some expense that will impact results and we've seen that in the third quarter.

So one way to look at it is if you compare third quarter to second quarter and you adjust out the $170 million in operating expenses wireline margins were essentially flat and the additional U-verse dilution was offset by additional merger synergies. The only other factor I think worth noting in the quarter is in the first two months of the quarter, particularly July and August, we had some unusually rainy, wet weather in the Southwest which normally that time of the year it's very dry. We had some very unusual rains there, we had some unusual weather in the Midwest and both of those drove some overtime that we had to deal with in the quarter, but in our business quarter-to-quarter those things happen.

RICH DIETZ: Okay, Christine, we're -- I'm sorry, Mike, did I cut you off?

MIKE MCCORMACK: No, I was just saying thanks to Rick.

RICH DIETZ: Okay. Christine, that's all the time we have for a Q&A session. Rick has some closing comments before we complete the call this morning. So Rick?

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Rich. And again, thanks to everybody for being on the call with us today. Almost two years ago, a little less than two years, in early 2006 we held an analyst conference and we provided at that conference a three-year outlook for the business. And I think our results since then consistently quarter after quarter and again in this most recent quarter have delivered on that outlook.

We're proud of the fact that we continue to grow our adjusted earnings per share at double-digit rates. We certainly focus a lot in the Company on our cash flows and cash flow growth has been strong. We've used that cash to return value to shareowners and we believe that's important. But I think most encouraging and most important from what we saw in this most recent quarter is the continued ramp and some acceleration in the ramp in revenue growth. And that revenue growth gives us confidence and gives us I think, the ability as we go forward to continue to grow earnings and cash flow, so that's an important part of what we're trying to achieve this year.

We continue to be excited about the opportunities ahead, the opportunities we see in wireless data; the opportunities we see in business services. And some of the transactions and the deals that we've announced -- the IBM contract that we announced this quarter -- I think those things tell you something about the assets, the capabilities and the position we are in the market today that are important. We continue to see opportunities in broadband in our business and certainly broadband services have become -- in the future and today are the access line of the past. That's the most important connection we have into the home.

We see opportunities in video, a substantial opportunity to grow top-line revenues and to provide converged services between communications and entertainment. So we are excited about those opportunities. We look forward to covering those with you in a lot more detail when we hold our analyst conference in New York on December 11th. We hope that many of you can join us in person on that day. And again, thanks for taking part in the call and thank you, as always, for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thank you, Rick. Thank all of you this morning. Christine, that does complete our conference call this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes the AT&T third-quarter earnings release 2007 conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may all disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071030e3an0013j
  


 HD
 Q2  2007  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,331 words
   PD
24 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T second-quarter earnings release for 2007 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Dietz. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

   TD
RICHARD DIETZ, SVP-IR, AT&T, INC.: Great. Thank you, Tatiana, and good morning, everyone, and welcome. It's great to have you with us morning for our second-quarter earnings call. Joining me on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. And Rick will cover our results, our outlook, and then at the end of our presentation, we will have a Q&A session.

Our release, investor briefing, the supplementary information and the presentation slides we will speak to on this call are all available on the Investor Relations page of the AT&T Website. That is att.com/investor.relations.

Before we get started, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3 of the presentation. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our Website -- and again, that is att.com/investor.relations.

Okay. I also want to quickly cover our EPS comparisons, which are on slide 4 of the presentation. Adjusted EPS for the second quarter was $0.70. Reported EPS this quarter was $0.47. We had $0.21 of merger costs, and there was a $0.02 impact for the effect of purchase accounting on Advertising & Publishing's deferred revenues and expenses from the BellSouth acquisition. You will note that 85% of our second-quarter adjustments were noncash.

Adjusted EPS this quarter is up more than 20% from the $0.58 in the second quarter of 2006. This growth reflects strong operational progress in both wireless and wireline, including strong merger execution and further ramp in revenue growth. EPS this quarter also benefited about $0.01 from impacts related to tax settlements and state tax legislation, and $0.01 from the monetization of nonstrategic assets.

With that as background, I will now turn it over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, SVP, CFO, AT&T, INC.: Thanks, Rich, and good morning, everyone. Before I cover the details, let me begin with a couple of quick overview comments on the quarter and the major trends that I believe are providing much better visibility on the longer-term potential of the business.

Looking at slide 6, I think item number one this quarter has to be the continued ramp in our top-line revenue growth, building on improved trends over the past four quarters. Wireless growth is accelerating, and the much-anticipated iPhone launch went very well. Regional results were solid. We delivered a significant improvement in enterprise trends, with a clear line of sight to positive revenue growth in this high potential area of our business. Our U-verse video product rollout began to ramp in the quarter, and the results are encouraging.

In addition to top-line progress, we continue to execute and deliver on merger synergies. And as a result, margins were solid, free cash flow was strong. We completed our $10 billion share buyback ahead of schedule in early July. And we have good operational momentum heading into the second half of the year.

So as a general overview, AT&T posted another strong quarter. We're on a good trajectory for the second half, with increased confidence about our opportunities beyond this year. So with that as a perspective, now let's get into some of the details.

Slide 7 shows EPS growth and margin expansion. As Rich mentioned, before merger-related effects, our second-quarter EPS was $0.70, and this is our ninth straight quarter of double-digit growth in adjusted EPS. Our adjusted consolidated operating income margin was 23.9%. That is up substantially year-over-year and up 20 basis points sequentially, with our wireline business driving the sequential expansion.

We continue to expect to operate at the top end of the 23% to 24% margin range that we provided for 2007, as benefits from merger synergies and operational improvements outweigh costs from our U-verse rollout. And we expect to deliver continued double-digit growth in adjusted EPS this year and next.

Slide 8 provides a quick update on merger integration and synergy run rates. Last year, we achieved $1.1 billion in savings from our SBC- AT&T integration. That is a combination of both expense and capital savings. And it was about $300 million above our previous outlook. And through the first half of this year, as we layer on BellSouth integration, we realized approximately $1.9 billion in merger integration savings; again, that is combined capital and expense savings.

We're getting a lot of things done this year. Our support and staff consolidations are moving forward as planned. We have completed the migration of BellSouth mass-market long distance traffic to the AT&T network. And our original target was the third quarter, so we completed this project ahead of schedule. And rebranding efforts are on track and should largely be completed in the third quarter.

Even more important, we have a lot of headroom in terms of merger synergies. We continue to expect synergies above $3 billion this year, growing to over $5 billion next year.

Now, while the synergy execution is important, as I said, I think the key news in our results this quarter is the progress we're delivering in top-line revenue growth. The chart on slide 9 shows the revenue growth trajectory over the past five quarters. This total revenue versus pro forma results for 2006, and so it combines AT&T, BellSouth and Cingular.

You see a steady ramp in the growth rates, and that ramp is driven by accelerating wireless growth, substantial improvements in enterprise, and solid regional results, both in business and consumer, resulting in 2% year-over-year growth and 1.4% sequential growth.

This chart shows complete pro forma trends, and it includes results from our national mass market business in all quarters. And as you know, proactive marketing stopped in this business unit in 2004, and as a result, national mass market revenues have declined at a 20% plus rate. So to provide some perspective on revenue growth looking ahead, as the national mass market revenue base get smaller, our revenue growth in second quarter excluding this unit was 3.4%.

Now, the number one driver of revenues is accelerating growth in wireless, shown on slide 10. In the second quarter, our wireless service revenue growth rate ramped to 14.9%, double the rate we saw a year ago. We've strengthened subscriber growth, with 1.5 million net adds, up 22% from the first quarter of this year, and most of that increase came from postpaid net adds, which were up 34% from the first quarter.

Over the past four quarters, we've increased wireless subscribers by 6.4 million, and that is better than 11% growth. We've also had a strong upturn in wireless ARPU growth, boosted by explosive growth in data. Total ARPU grew 3.6% in the second quarter, and that is our strongest year-over-year increase in several years. And our postpaid base had even stronger ARPU, up more than 6%.

As you know, on June 29th, we launched the iPhone with Apple and the results have been terrific. We had just a day and a half of iPhone sales and activations in the second quarter, but in that short timeframe we had 146,000 activations, with over 40% of those being new customers. The average rate plans for these subscribers is significantly above our current average ARPU. And demand continues to be strong, and we continue to see traffic levels in our stores above historical levels.

I think it may be an understatement to say that no device in the history of the wireless industry has come out with more fanfare than was the case with the iPhone. Expectations were certainly high. But I'm pleased to say that the iPhone has met them, with a truly unique user interface, a great Web browser, video iPod, and on top of it all, a high-quality wireless phone. Initial customer feedback has been off the charts, and we look forward to continuing our relationship with Apple for years to come.

As I said, the number one driver behind ARPU growth and the overall wireless revenue ramp is very strong gains in wireless data. The highlights are on slide 11. Year-over-year, wireless data revenue growth was a robust 67%, taking us to 1.7 billion, and our wireless data ARPU was up 52%. Data now accounts for 17% of total wireless service revenues and more than $10 of our postpaid ARPU.

And as strong as these numbers are, it's clear to us we are still early in the game, and there is a huge amount of upside opportunity in wireless data services. Only about 60% of our wireless customers are active data users today, so there is plenty of headroom. And across our data customer base, while usage is growing, there's a lot of room for growth as applications and handsets are increasingly datacentric.

Historically, data growth has been driven by text messaging. But we're now seeing strong increases in both consumer and business data usage and we're seeing strong growth across all product categories, including e-mail, downloads, media bundles, Internet access, laptop connectivity, Smartphone connectivity, and enterprise vertical market solutions. It's clear to us we're at the beginning of dramatic growth in wireless data. And in fact, I believe one of the things we're seeing the iPhone do is broaden the appeal and dramatically ratchet up expectations for a data-rich wireless experience.

The iPhone is just one of a host of new data-rich products and services that we've recently launched. A few of the most notable are on slide 12. I think it's important to understand the advantages that we get from scale in developing these new products. Our coverage and distribution, combined with the scale opportunities of GSM as the world wireless standard, is a compelling combination for us as well as our strategic partners.

We just announced the national launch of Video Share across the country to nearly 160 3G markets. AT&T Video Share is a unique, groundbreaking 3G service that enables users to share live video over their wireless phones while simultaneously carrying on a voice call.

We've launched a number of new 3G devices, including the thin Samsung A717 and A727, both of which support our Video Share product. We also launched a North American exclusive with the BlackBerry Curve, the lightest and thinnest BlackBerry ever made, with a full QWERTY keyboard. And we now have more than 5 million customers with 3G handsets in the base; that is double the total of last quarter.

In addition to increased revenues, our device lineup, combined with excellent network coverage and quality, have helped drive down churn. Slide 13 shows the trends. Postpaid churn dropped to 1.2% in the second quarter, down 30 basis points year-over-year and down 10 basis points sequentially, to our lowest level ever. These churn improvements have come despite continued pressure from TDMA migrations, which we estimate had about a 5 to 10 basis point impact on postpaid churn.

We continue to make good progress migrating TDMA postpaid customers to GSM. At the end of the second quarter, we had approximately 1.3 million subscribers remaining on TDMA, and that is down from 2.4 million six months earlier. More than half of our remaining TDMA subscribers are wholesale. So churn is moving in the right direction. We expect to see continued improvements as we launch new products, further enhance the network and move beyond our TDMA migration.

As we've accelerated revenue growth and lowered churn, we've also expanded wireless margins and grown wireless income. The details are on slide 14. Versus the year-ago quarter, second-quarter adjusted wireless operating income was up 70% and adjusted service EBITDA was up 32%. The table on this slide also shows sequential margin changes.

And the decline from first-quarter levels was primarily due to two factors. One, preparation for the iPhone launch, including staffing, training, store prep and advertising accounted, for about one-third of the decline. And the remainder reflects increased customer acquisition costs, including handsets, particularly with a higher mix of more advanced data-centric devices being sold. The benefits of stronger subscriber growth, though, and increased customer adoption of data-rich handsets are clearly a positive force going forward, and our outlook for wireless margins has not changed. We expect full-year average EBITDA margins to be in the low 40% range next year, with clear opportunities for further expansion beyond 2008.

In addition to wireless, I think the other big news in this quarter results is the improvement we're achieving in enterprise trends, and the details are on slide 15. The chart shown here is the same one we provided in the past few quarters. It shows trends in total enterprise revenues, excluding CPE sales and M&A impacts. As you see, a year ago, we posted a year-over-year decline of 5.1%. The past three quarters, that moved into the 3 to mid-3% range.

We said the path to revenue growth would be a step function, not linear, and this quarter we took a major step up, with a decline of less than a percent. Sequentially, recurring enterprise revenues were up 1.9% over the first quarter. And as I said at the outset, we have a clear line of sight to positive enterprise revenue growth.

There are a number of drivers. Demand continues to be solid; data transport volumes are strong; IP services, including virtual private networks, managed Internet service and hosting, grew more than 18% in the quarter. IP services now make up a third of our total enterprise data revenues.

Our customers continue to respond to good network reliability and advanced product sets, and we're winning contracts. We have a premier global network for enterprise customers and we're expanding our capabilities in key growth areas like hosting, international and wireless. By the end of 2007, we expect to have 38 Internet data centers deployed around the world, and the AT&T global network will provide multinational companies with MPOS-based access from 155 countries via more than 2000 service nodes. Again, this is an area of our business that has great potential, and we're on track to do what we set out to do, and that is return to sustainable positive enterprise revenue growth.

While we improved trends in enterprise, we've also sustained good growth in regional business, including the small and medium business space. Slide 16 has the details. Our regional business revenues grew by 4.5%, driven by both voice and data services. Data, which grew more than 7%, is now approaching 30% of total revenues. Data growth was led by strength in managed Internet, virtual private networking, and DSL. These IP-based services make up more than 40% of the regional business data revenues, and they are growing at a mid-teens rate.

Voice revenues also continue to grow in regional business. Access lines increased in the quarter, as they have over the past several quarters, churn remains stable and low, and ARPU has grown steadily over several quarters as customers add more features. Revenues from small- and medium-sized businesses in this category grew even faster, at more than 6%, just as they did last quarter. So the small and medium space continues to be very solid for us.

Slide 17 shows regional consumer trends, where despite increasing cable competition we continue to deliver stable revenues, up 4/10 of a percent year-over-year and 1.1% sequentially. The drivers, again, are bundling and broadband, but with an increasing role for video.

The volume measure that correlates most consistently with our consumer growth rates continues to be revenue connections. That is access lines plus high-speed Internet plus video. And over the past year, we've had a net gain in regional consumer connections from 946,000, as gains in high-speed Internet and video have more than offset net declines in traditional access lines.

Our high-speed Internet connections are up 2.2 million over the past year to reach 13.3 million in service. 35% of our consumer primary lines also have broadband service, up from 28% a year ago. And in California and Nevada, broadband penetration of primary lines is now at 43%. 46% of our DSL base takes speed tiers of 3 megabits or more; that is up from 34% from a year ago. And overall DSL churn rates remain low.

Our consumer primary lines declined by 193,000 in the second quarter, down substantially from a pro forma decline of 528,000 for the year-earlier quarter. But these totals in part reflect migrations from wholesale, and when you exclude these migrations, the change in total consumer switched access lines was generally consistent, pretty flat, with year-earlier results despite a nearly 30% increase year-over-year in competitive footprint by cable companies in our regions.

The emerging opportunity for us in regional consumer is video, and slide 18 provides an update. In the second quarter we added 200,000 total video subscribers. That includes bundled satellite combined with subscribers through our U-verse video service. This 200,000 net gain was the best ever total, nearly double the pro forma total in the year-ago second quarter. And it's also up from results in the first quarter of this year.

We now have 1.9 million total bundled video subscribers, with more than 600,000 added over the past year. And at the end of the second quarter, nearly 6% of consumer primary lines subscribed to a video solution from us. So the bottom-line is we are selling video, and consumers increasingly are coming to expect AT&T to be a provider of innovative, high-quality television.

I think it's particularly gratifying to see the positive customer response and the accelerated ramp in our AT&T U-verse IP video service. Slide 19 has the highlights. Six months ago, we had 3000 U-verse video subscribers. At the end of the first quarter, we had 13,000. And at the end of June, we were at 51,000. So as you can see, we've ramped installation significantly. We are now up and selling in portions of 23 metropolitan areas. And we expect to continue to expand deployment and continue our ramp up, with a target of reaching more than 10,000 installs per week in the fourth quarter. More than 80% of our U-verse subscribers are taking higher-end video packages, and 65% are taking our highest speed broadband services, both of which drives revenue per customer.

Our confidence in the technology and the service quality is being confirmed by customer feedback, and we have a very positive outlook for AT&T U-verse video.

We're working on detailed plans for the Southeast region, and will include a complete update at our analyst conference in December. But in broad terms, we anticipate capital cost per household passed in the Southeast to come in about 10% to 15% less than in our 13 states due to the ability to leverage superhub offices and infrastructure investments, including billing and customer support systems.

We will build out to approximately the same portion of the Southeast footprint as we are in the 13 states, around 50% to 55%. Our Southeast plans do not change our capital guidance for 2007 and '08 of midteens as a percent of revenue. And we will begin deployment of U-verse in our first Southeast market by year end.

Now before I close, let me provide an update on free cash flow and value return to shareowners. The details are on slide 20. We had strong cash flow quarter, and through the first half of the year, cash from operations totaled $15 billion. Free cash flow after CapEx and dividends totaled $3.1 billion, and we now expect free cash flow after dividends for the full year to come in between $5 billion and $6 billion, up from our previous guidance of between $4 billion and $5 billion.

I think I will pause there for a minute, because many of you that I've talked to over the last six months probably want to stop and collectively say, I told you so, because many of you told me that you expected free cash flow to be higher. And so you are correct. We are confident in the free cash flow numbers for the year being in the $5 billion to $6 billion range.

But in addition to cash from operations, we also generated in the first half of 2007 more than $500 million from the sale of nonstrategic assets, including real estate. And this cash generation gives us both the flexibility to invest in the future of the business and return substantial cash to shareowners.

As you saw in our press release, we completed the $10 billion share repurchase that we began in 2006, and completed it ahead of schedule in early July. And in the first half of this year, through dividends and share repurchase, we've returned more than $11 billion of cash to shareowners. We now have 125 million shares remaining in our current share repurchase authorization that was approved by our Board. We expect to continue with repurchases under this authorization over the remainder of 2007.

So let me close with a quick recap, which is on slide 21. As I said at the outset, the Company continues to execute and perform well. We have a strong record of delivering on our targets, and that continued in the second quarter, and we've got good momentum heading into the second half. And more to the point, we're seeing positive trends that are encouraging as we look ahead to the longer-term potential of the business.

Our merger synergy run rates are growing. Revenue growth rates continue to accelerate, with a strong ramp in wireless and substantial improvements in enterprise. And at the same time, margins are solid, adjusted earnings growth is on track with our double-digit outlook, and cash flow is strong, with expected free cash flow after dividends now in the $5 billion to $6 billion range.

So in summary, a lot to be positive about as we look to the second half. And as we look to the years ahead, we're confident in the long-term potential of this business.

So with that, Rich, I think we will stop here and we will open it up for questions.

RICHARD DIETZ: Great. Thank you, Rick. Tatiana, we are now ready to start the Q&A session, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) John Hodulik from UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Good morning. First -- a couple questions. First, on the CapEx, it came in a little lighter than we expected. Can you give us the breakout between wireline and wireless? And then, is there any chance I can get you to update your '08 outlook for free cash flow?

RICK LINDNER: John, first of all on CapEx, we are running in total a little bit light of our plan and our guidance expectations for the year through the first half. And we are running a little bit light there primarily on the wireless side. Some of that reflects, frankly, the fact that, as we've talked about in the past, we're in a very good position in terms of the sell side density in the network, the spectrum that we have, the availability we have as a result of our network integration of existing GSM and EDGE equipment. So that has, I think, held down capital expenditures in the first half of the year.

In addition to that, in the second quarter, there were some vendor credits that are just part of our ongoing agreements with some vendors that reduced CapEx a little bit further. But we do expect CapEx to be a little higher in the second half of this year and a little higher, in particular, on the wireless side. And part of that will reflect, frankly, additional CapEx as we continue to expand and grow the 3G network. In fact, most of our expenditures these days in CapEx that are network related in wireless are 3G.

2008, we're a little premature in terms of expanding guidance on cash flow in 2008. We're in the early stages of developing those business plans now. But we will be in position to lay that out for you, I think in pretty good detail, in our analyst conference in December.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen from Credit Suisse.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi. Thanks. Two areas of big improvement -- enterprise and continued strength in small business. On the enterprise side, can you give us an idea of is that share, is that price, is it usage which is driving the step function that we saw this quarter?

And then secondly, on the small business, we've seen a decline in competition over the last several years. Can you give us an idea of what the level of competition in small/medium business is today and what you might be seeing or what you might expect to see out of the cable guys, who have announced intentions to get into that business? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Chris. First, on the enterprise side. As I mentioned earlier, really, demand across the business there continues to be strong. Even in the voice side in enterprise, we are seeing some year-over-year growth in just plain old voice long distance traffic, as an example. So we are seeing good volumes there.

We continue to see very good demand in transport, although there continues to be, I think, a little more price pressure on the transport side, because historically we had some price reductions in transport that led to a greater gap between the embedded contract pricing and the point-of-sale pricing. And then we are seeing very good growth in IP-based services, particularly VPN, managed Internet services, and hosting services.

When you step back from the numbers, I think a couple of things that are important in the trends. First, in terms of point-of-sale pricing, we continue to see some flattening in point-of-sale pricing. And we are seeing it, frankly, right now in both the voice and data side, both voice LD pricing as well as some transport pricing. So I think that is encouraging.

On the voice side in enterprise this quarter, we had a voice revenue year-over-year decline of about 4.5%. That is the smallest decline we've had in a long, long time, and that is a function of some flattening in point-of-sale pricing along with a little bit of growth in minutes. So I think that helped out.

And then of course our focus and our emphasis in this business continues to be on the data side, and particularly with IP services. And so seeing 18% to 19% growth in IP-based services is a terrific sign for enterprise.

I don't have good data to share with you relative to market share, but I think we can -- as we're looking at transactions, I think we are certainly competitive in the marketplace; we've got a great set of products and capabilities. And so we're doing very well from a share perspective.

In small and medium business, the situation there, really in the last several quarters in terms of the results and the trends we're seeing, hasn't changed dramatically. We are continuing to see growth in both voice and data in small and medium business, and in our regional business overall, we're continuing to see access line gains, and we are seeing relatively low churn rates for both access lines and broadband services.

Where we do have competitive losses -- and maybe a good way to say this would be if you look at our access line disconnects in the regional business space, most of them are related to technology migration. Only about 30% of access line disconnects are competitive disconnects. And in terms of cable competition up to this point, of that 30%, the disconnects that are cable related are very small -- 4 to 5 percentage points of that 30. So we are not seeing a lot in the market at this point, other than probably from Cox, who has been in the market for some time.

But I do expect over this next year we will see more activity as Comcast and Time Warner both begin to roll out their plans. Again, I think where we will see them will tend to be more in the lower end of the small/medium business space, kind of 10 lines and under, maybe even 4 lines and under. And again, so far we are not seeing much impact there. In fact, our small/medium business revenue growth was in the mid 6% range this quarter, about the same as last quarter.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack from Bear Stearns.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks, guys. A couple of questions. First, on wireless margins -- obviously some pressure this quarter. You identified the iPhone piece of that, which obviously should abate, and the benefit from that TDMA sunset next year. But maybe your sense on how you see the competitive landscape changing. Obviously, you are spending money on handset subsidies and advertising. Does that come down over time or should we expect that to get worse?

And then on wireless ARPU, maybe just a sense on the growth drivers there. Are the AirCards having an impact yet, or what is driving that higher? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Mike. On wireless margins, I think, as we've said, there were two primary factors there. We had -- one way to look at it is adjusted EBITDA margins were down in the second quarter about 140 basis points from the first quarter. And roughly a third of that change was related to, essentially, our preparations for the iPhone.

We worked with Apple and jointly did some advertising, so we had some costs associated with that in preparation for the launch. We also hired additional people for our stores, put them through training. We had costs to develop a new activation process for the product. And then of course the testing we went through in the product. So all of those things contributed some cost into the second quarter related to the launch.

But the bigger factor, and two-thirds of it, really is related to additional acquisition costs, some advertising, more in handset subsidies, just related to our ongoing business, and primarily our postpaid business. As we said in the first quarter, if there was one thing we felt we wanted to improve on going forward during the year is to increase our share in postpaid gross adds and net adds.

And we had gotten, I think, a little bit out of the market in our handset pricing, particularly for some of the higher end data devices. And so we did get a little more aggressive there. We've met competitors generally in the pricing that is out there. We will see how the market develops over the rest of the year. Those things tend to kind of ebb and flow in the marketplace. But I'm very pleased with the results we had.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Presumably the cost saves that you are talking about would offset the continued pressure on the handset subsidy side for the balance of the year, though, I would imagine.

RICK LINDNER: Yes, absolutely. And in fact, we would expect -- that is why I said we are not changing any guidance related to our margins. We will be in the upper 30s for all of this year, and we still expect to be in the lower '40s for next year. And you should see a ramp in margins between now and through the end of next year as we go through that process and as we take our TDMA network out of service in the first part of next year.

So no changes to the guidance. And in fact, if anything, I was not just supported, but encouraging our wireless business unit to be a little more aggressive and get the momentum that we are seeing right now behind the business in gross sales and particularly in postpaid. And we had a nice ramp that occurred, not just between first and second quarter, but a nice ramp that occurred throughout the second quarter, as some of the things we are doing took effect.

So we are pleased with it. And as you look ahead, in particular, when you see what is driving the business -- and kind of going to the second part of your question -- what is driving wireless ARPU, it is on the data side, and it is increasingly customers buying packages of data services for their devices. So as we begin to get more devices into the base, more Smartphones into the base, more 3G devices into the base, then you start to migrate customers from simply buying a package of text messages to customers that are buying media bundles.

And in fact, year-over-year, if you look at the growth on our data services, the biggest single component of it was the growth in customers buying media bundles, which gives them a package of text messages, multimedia messages and Internet access.

MIKE MCCORMACK: So are you seeing any traction, Rick, in the enterprise segment with AirCards yet, or is it too early to tell?

RICK LINDNER: No, we are seeing -- we are continuing to see traction there. And I think that will also be a growing portion of wireless data revenues. We are seeing it across both business and consumer, we're seeing it with AirCards. We're also seeing it with Internet access and e-mail connectivity across a variety of devices.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks for the time, guys.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Okay, thank you. Good morning. Can you just help us a little bit more on the U-verse side of things? The adds are starting to ramp now. Can you give us a little bit more clarity around things like homes passed and what sort of penetration rates? You talked about 10% after six months. How is that all tracking versus expectations, as well as the cost to install?

And then if you have any updated thoughts on the 700 megahertz auction that preceded that as well? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Simon. U-verse is ramping now very nicely. I think relative to our plans for the year, it is really right on target for the year in terms of both the construction side as well as the sales and installation phase. We really have moved into more of a blocking/tackling phase of this product rollout. So it is about continuing to build and increase the number of homes passed.

And we are up in -- I think right at 4 million -- or right at the halfway point in the year, we're about halfway to our target of 8 million homes passed for the year. And we are expanding marketing efforts across -- steadily across the homes that we are passing, and increasing the number of homes we're marketing to in existing markets, and then of course rolling out additional markets. We are in, as I said, about 23 metropolitan areas now. That continues to increase each month, as do the number of homes we are marketing to.

We are seeing, I think, very good sales rates. And our installation results are improving. We're seeing good flowthrough of orders in our systems; that statistic continues to improve each month. Our installation times are still up in the 7 to 7-plus hour range on average, but that's -- to a large degree, that is a function of bringing a lot of new technicians on board and getting them up to the learning curve.

I was on a U-verse installation last week, and this is a technician who is one of our more experienced technicians in San Antonio. And it was an installation done basically in four hours. So on the installation side of things, I would tell you there is probably two primary variables on a case-by-case basis. It has to do with, number one, the amount of experience of the technician. And secondly, with the condition of the wiring inside the home. And in some cases, where we get into longer install times, it is because we are having to do more rewiring inside the house.

But all of the metrics in terms of installation and costs are really going according to plan at this point. I think, actually, on the upside, on the revenue side, it continues to be better than we expected in terms of customer adoption of higher-end video packages. It continues to be higher than we expected on HD; nearly half of new customers are taking and buying HD from us. And it continues to be higher on the data speeds that customers are buying. So all of those things, I think, are good signs from an ARPU perspective.

SIMON FLANNERY: And on the 700 megahertz?

RICK LINDNER: And the 700 megahertz, Simon, we have a group internally that is studying the 700 megahertz auction and our potential need for that spectrum, and different uses for certain bands of that spectrum. And this is a similar approach to what we've taken in past auctions. But I think it is premature at this point to talk about strategy related to the auction. In fact, we won't do that prior to the auctions.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong from Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thanks. Good morning, Rick. A couple questions. First, on wireless margins, maybe just sort of a longer-term question. You are sort of talking about low 40s as the opportunity for '08, which matches what you have been saying for a while. But the industry backdrop here has changed a little bit. You've still got strong revenue growth accelerating for you every quarter. But there is much more of a balance now between volume growth and price growth, rather than revenue growth just purely being driven by volume. So this would seem to set a backdrop which would support much higher long-term margins. So just wondering if you can give me your perspective on that.

And then double-digit EPS growth. Again, I guess, a longer-term question. If you think about the revenue trajectory you're on, the operating leverage in the business, and the ability to buy back 4% to 5% of your shares every year, what stops you from talking about this as a business that can grow earnings sort of double-digit longer-term. In other words, beyond the 2008 timeframe you've talked about. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Good questions, Jason. First on wireless margins. I think there could be some upside. We have to see how the business continues to develop. But I think the surprise for many people this year is the fact that there was -- going into the year, there was a lot of question, concern, focus about penetration in the market and will that begin to top out.

And what we are seeing is now continued pretty good customer growth. But on top of it, we are really ramping up ARPUs; and a lot of that, again, is data related. And so the upside as we go forward in the future may be in that ARPU equation related to data.

I think certainly we feel very comfortable with upper 30s EBITDA margins this year. We feel very comfortable with moving that into the lower 40s overall for 2008. But as I mentioned earlier, I would expect us to ramp pretty steadily over this next 18 months or so. And we will get benefits throughout next year as we take the TDMA network out of service and as we are able to take costs out and trim and manage the network post bringing TDMA down.

So that, combined with if we continue on a very good ARPU trajectory, could drive margins even harder in this business. And as we've said, our expectation beyond 2008 would be -- certainly, with the trends we're seeing today -- would be to continue to grow those margin levels.

On the earnings growth, we are obviously very comfortable and confident in the guidance that we've provided, which is double-digit growth for this year, double-digit growth for next year. We're looking at the same issues that you mentioned in your question in terms of the opportunities to ramp top-line revenues. And in particular, when you look across our business and just look at the major segments, we are seeing very good growth in wireless service revenues and actually some increasing ramp there. We are seeing very good trends in enterprise. I think it gives us more confident about returning -- and not just returning, but getting back to a sustainable top-line growth situation in enterprise.

In regional, regional business continues to be very solid, and we've got some opportunities on the consumer side as we ramp video. So that takes you back then to two areas of the business that have been declining and actually dampening our growth rate somewhat. One of those is wholesale. And there have just been a lot of changes in the business in terms of consolidation of companies and networks, as well as some reductions in UNE-P lines, that are impacting the wholesale business.

But at the end of the day, that is still a very good business for us. And I think we are -- in the next couple of quarters you will see that business, which is about a $3.5 billion a quarter business, may decline a little bit more yet due to some of the consolidation and UNE-P pressures, but then we will start to flatten out and then we'll actually have some opportunities, I think, in the future to begin to grow there.

And then the national mass market business is one that has actually been very good to us in terms of cash and value. And as that declines, that will have less of a drag.

So you start to see the ability to continue to ramp top line, to continue to drive costs out of our business, not just through merger synergies, but as we get more scale, particularly in IP-based services, the ability to begin to ramp margins there and begin to move margins more in the direction of legacy services on the IP side is important to us as well.

And then, as you said, with the cash flow we are producing and the ability to continue to repurchase some shares, I think it gives us good opportunity for good earnings growth. And that is one of the things we are looking at right now on a longer-term basis. And again, I think we will be able to give you more definitive guidance when we get together in December.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden from Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Thanks, guys, for taking the question. Maybe a couple housekeeping items and then just one more question. Rick, were your comments on the buyback intended to indicate that you are going to -- hope to complete the 125 million share buyback in the second half or just kind of pursue it in the second half?

You also gave us, on the BellSouth parameters, 10% or 15% discount to cost per home passed for the U-verse project. Could you give us what that home passed cost -- homes passed cost is now?

And then I guess just the last question is on DSL. Still growth there, but penetration rates are starting to slow down. I was wondering if you could kind of give us some color around what the outlook here for DSL penetration is. Is it, you think, saturation of the market or is it kind of a market share battle with cable at the margin as your users continue to move upmarket in the speed category? Thank you very much.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. First of all on the buyback, we will -- as I said, we've got 125 million shares remaining under the authorization, and we will continue to buy under that authorization. I wouldn't tell you that we will complete that authorization this year. We will continue to buy under it. And the amounts that we buy will be dependent on the cash flow that we generate in the second half of the year, and it will be dependent on market conditions, obviously. But I think we will continue -- particularly at current price levels, frankly, we will continue to be very active in share repurchase.

On U-verse, in our 13 states, we have a capital cost per home passed -- and this is all-inclusive. So it includes the video serving infrastructure, as well as the construction in the local loop, and it includes development of the software and OCS systems that support these customers. So everything combined is about $330, roughly, per home passed in the 13 states.

As we move into the Southeast, as I said, we will leverage some of the work that we've done in the 13 states. We will benefit from the fact that the Southeast has fiber deployed a little deeper into their network. And offsetting some of that, though, the Southeast in terms of density is a little -- tends to be a little less dense than our 13 states.

So when you put all that together, again, I think we'll be at a cost that is probably 10% to 15% per home less than what we've seen in the 13 states, primarily by leveraging some of the work that we've already done.

In DSL, kind of an interesting thing. First of all, when we look at DSL, we're really looking at broadband in total. So we look across it including the customers that we're bringing in with U-verse and some customers with satellite and so forth. So we did overall about 400,000 broadband net adds in the quarter. And that was down -- it is down sequentially just due to normal seasonality and end-of-school disconnects. But it was also down somewhat from second quarter of last year.

When you break the numbers apart, though, what we find is that we actually increased gross adds and gross sales of broadband products second quarter this year versus second quarter last year. So we saw good activity in sales. And we saw churn rates that were down slightly. On a percentage basis of the base, the churn was down slightly. The reason the number has come down -- and this is just as you continue to build a larger and larger base -- is the churn number is kind of a bigger challenge to overcome each quarter.

But underlying the business in both churn and in gross sales, we're seeing good activity. And certainly when you look at the fact that, while we've made good progress in penetrating our base, still at just 35% on average of penetration of our primary access lines, we feel like there is still substantial room to grow broadband.

Two other things happening in broadband that I think are important. One is -- and we will see how this quarter turns out when everyone reports. I don't think it will be any different, but when we look over the last four quarters, the broadband share of spend in the marketplace has been split pretty evenly in our territory. To us, as we look at everyone's numbers, it looks like we are getting about 50% of broadband share.

But secondly, we're also seeing in the DSL revenues -- we're seeing the pricing -- and some of this is a result of the price changes we implemented in the second half of last year in broadband -- but we are seeing our ARPU start to stabilize. And actually, it's increasing a little bit in the business side and it's flattening out pretty well in consumer. And that is a function of the standard pricing we put in and it's a function of customers upgrading service to higher data speeds.

And I guess the last thing I'd mention on DSL is that there is always concerns and issues around that people talk about related to the broadband speeds in the local loop. And the truth is there, particularly with our Lightspeed and U-verse deployment, we are going to continue to have substantial upside to move customers in the future up to higher broadband speeds. Which I think will help to continue to keep churn levels low, will help competitively and will also improve ARPU.

But even today, with all the movement we've had in the base, we still have less than 10% of our customers that are buying at 6 megabit speeds. So we have substantial room to upgrade customers as their needs increase or as the demand is there for higher speeds in the local loop.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks for the color, Rick.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz from Lehman Brothers.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yes. Thanks for taking the question. Rick, you talked a little bit about wholesale and the fact that visibility is improving a little bit. Can you maybe flesh that out a little bit? I mean, that is sort of the third leg of the stool on business, and once that turns, you are home free.

And then maybe could we get a comment perhaps about Verizon's settlement with Broadcom -- maybe what your exposure is with next generation devices, and if you can comment as to whether or not you are looking at a similar settlement? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Tom. First of all, I'm not going to comment on the Verizon settlement at this point. This is still an issue where we're looking at a number of options, haven't reached any resolution yet. So it would be premature for me to comment related to this.

But on the wholesale side, wholesale for us is a combination of products. And it is really -- you can break it down into three pretty good-sized pieces. One is UNE-P lines and resale lines and revenues from those lines, which have been declining, but those are starting to get down into a level where I think they will start to stabilize somewhat. And the pricing there over the past year or so has moved up, and the pricing now is staying, I think, pretty stable and the pricing is at reasonable rates there.

Secondly then, there is carrying primarily voice traffic and long distance traffic on the wholesale network. And that is the element of the business, that there have been some moving pieces because of industry consolidation, and even some pieces where, frankly, we have moved to revenues or moved traffic to our own network. But in doing so, we no longer then recognize some termination revenues, some access revenues that we did recognize in the past under the old WilTel agreement.

So that is one that's kind of interesting where it has impacted negatively our wholesale revenues, but obviously we get all the cost saving on the access side of things. And from a net margin perspective, it has been positive to us. But we are working through that transition, we're working through transitions with other carriers. And to some degree as other carriers migrate some traffic off, it has given us some capacity that we are being able to use by putting our own traffic on the network.

So again, it has some negative impact on revenues in the short-term, has some positive impacts on margin and bottom line, and I think that all starts to settle out over the next two to three quarters.

So having said that, then the third area of revenue there and some opportunity for us is in the transport side in wholesale, which has been pretty stable. And I think actually going forward, I think we have some opportunities to grow that business. And when you put it together, it's a $3.5 billion a quarter revenue stream. We have a little bit of consolidation to go through yet, so that may drop somewhat. But as we get into next year, I think then you've got a pretty stable revenue stream that stays in the 3.3, $3.4 billion kind of range with some opportunities to grow on the data side.

TOM SEITZ: Thanks very much for the color.

RICHARD DIETZ: This next question will have to be our last question for this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Frank Louthan from Raymond James.

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Great, thank you. Just back on the enterprise side. Can you give us an idea of where you're seeing managed services, contracts coming into our RFPs, and how much that is moving the needle? And then you're looking at the SME part of the business, so you're seeing some traction there. Give us an idea of the size customers that you are targeting with your sales force.

What is the range of monthly billings kind of at the low end and medium end of where your sales force is targeting for on the SME side as far as monthly billings? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Well, Frank, on the small-medium business side in our various very smallest segments, the truth is we go after in the marketplace customers from the very smallest customers, four-line and under type size ranges, up to some medium business customers. In our regional operations, some regional government, medical education kinds of businesses that are pretty good size. So we are across the entire range there.

We approach that market a little differently, depending upon size in some cases. It's an active sales force on the street. But at the low end of the range, it tends to be more call-center driven in terms of the sales efforts. But as I said, the encouraging thing there, I think, is that we're seeing both growth in voice and data, we're seeing growth in access lines.

We benefited, I think, from a pretty good economy. We will see how that plays out as we go forward, but that has certainly helped in that space. And we are increasingly -- I think the opportunity for us as we start to package some products around Internet access, broadband, voice, wireless, and some products on, for example, the security side that we've developed for larger enterprise customers, we're starting to package those and bring those downmarket. I think that creates a good opportunity for us. And that reflects some of the growth you see in that segment.

On the data side, in small/medium business, we are seeing very good growth in managed Internet service, in DSL. We are seeing good growth in the larger end of the segment in some VPN kinds of services.

So I don't know if that entirely answers your question, but we are covering that entire market. We cover it a little differently, depending on the size of the customer. But again, just like in other aspects of our business, I think the ability to bundle wireless data, traditional voice, and to bundle that, put that together in some interesting packages, is particularly attractive for small/medium business customers.

FRANK LOUTHAN: Is that business growing faster than some -- at the smaller end -- faster than some other areas of the enterprise? And are you ramping up the sales force to go after those customers?

RICK LINDNER: It is growing. It has tended to grow -- over the last couple of years, it has grown more in the small/medium category. But it has not been as much about a volume or demand, I think, factor, as it hasn't had some of the same impacts from technology migration and from some of the pricing pressures that you've seen in -- certainly in the enterprise space and even down into some of the larger regional customers.

FRANK LOUTHAN: Great, thanks. Very helpful.

RICHARD DIETZ: Okay. Well, that concludes our Q&A session. Rick, I believe you have a few closing comments for us this morning.

RICK LINDNER: Well, thanks, Rich. And let me close and just underscore a couple of points. First, I think you know at AT&T we take pride in our ability to deliver on targets and to do the things that we say we are going to do. And I think the results we reported this morning continue a strong, consistent record in this regard. Again, it was our ninth straight quarter of double-digit adjusted EPS growth. Margins continue to be strong and improving in both wireless and wireline. We had very good cash flow performance and raised our full-year target range for cash flow after dividends.

And beyond these achievements, though, I think the most encouraging part of the quarter from my perspective is the ramp we're seeing in revenue growth. And that is the element that really gives us confidence as we look at this business into 2008 and beyond 2008. Again, we are seeing wireless growth accelerate. The iPhone launch went very well and the iPhone is going to provide a boost to those wireless revenues going forward. Enterprise revenue growth, as we've seen, is approaching an inflection point.

We continue to have very solid regional results, with revenue growth this quarter in both business and consumer. And then we've got the opportunities in front of us with the ramp of our U-verse video product.

So these trends are all obviously positive for the business, we have good operating momentum heading into the second half, and we're gaining increased visibility and confidence in the trajectory of the business beyond that.

So we are excited about the opportunities in front of us and we are confident in our ability to execute and confident in our ability to deliver for you, our shareowners. So again, thanks for joining us and thank you for your interest in AT&T.

RICHARD DIETZ: Great Thank you, Rick. Tatiana, that will conclude our call this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070731e37o0013o
  


 HD
 Q1  2007  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,388 words
   PD
24 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T first-quarter earnings release 2007 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

RICH DIETZ, SVP IR, AT&T, INC.: Thank you, Loraine, and good morning, everyone. I'm Rich Dietz, and it is great to have you with us today on our first-quarter 2007 earnings call. Also on the call this morning is Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Rick will cover our first-quarter results, then we will have a Q&A session.

   TD
Our release, the investor briefing, and supplementary information that were issued earlier today, and as always they are available on the investor relations page of the AT&T website. The presentation slides we will speak to on this call are also available on that same web page. That is www.att.com/investor.relations .

Before we get started I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3 of our presentation. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties; and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available at our AT&T website.

With that as a background, let me cover our first-quarter EPS comparisons, which are on slide 4. Adjusted EPS for the first quarter was $0.65. That is shown in the first column of this slide. Starting at the top and working down, reported EPS was $0.45. We reduced that by $0.04 for a gain we realized on a previously-announced Wireless asset transaction with T-Mobile. We add back $0.20 of merger costs associated with the BellSouth, AT&T, and AWE/Cingular mergers. We also add back $0.03 associated with the effect of purchase accounting on Advertising and Publishing's deferred revenues and expenses.

As we outlined for you last quarter, in accordance with purchase accounting rules, the former BellSouth's deferred revenues and expenses for all directories delivered prior to the close of the merger have been eliminated. In 2007, this results in a reduction in consolidated revenues, expenses, and net income, but does not affect cash from operations.

Factoring in all three items, the result is an adjusted EPS of $0.65.

The EPS walked down for the year-ago quarter is in the right-hand column. In the first quarter of 2006, reported EPS was $0.37. We add back $0.15 of merger costs associated with the AT&T and AWE/Cingular mergers, resulting in an adjusted EPS of $0.52.

So our reported EPS in the first quarter this year was $0.45, up 22% versus the year earlier quarter. Our adjusted EPS was $0.65; that is up 25%. Further details on the adjustments can be found on the investor relations page on the AT&T website.

Okay, with that, I will now turn it over to AT&T's Senior Executive Vice President and CFO, Rick Lindner.

RICK LINDNER, SENIOR EVP, CFO, AT&T, INC.: Thanks, Rich, and good morning, everyone. Well, as you have seen, I think we had a very strong first quarter. Before I cover the slides with you, let me make a couple of general comments.

First, as you know, this was the first full quarter of operations following our acquisition of BellSouth, with 100% ownership and consolidation of our Wireless business. So it was an important three months for us in terms of transition and getting a good start on the integration work.

I feel good about how we started the year. Our merger integration is on track. We had great results in Wireless. And earnings growth was strong. As a result, based on what we have seen in the market and what we achieved in the first quarter, I am optimistic and confident about our ability to deliver on the outlook that we shared with you in January.

Let's start with some first-quarter highlights; and those highlights are on slide 6. First, our merger integration work, combined with good execution across the business, drove substantial margin expansion in both Wireline and Wireless.

Second, in line with our outlook, we grew total revenues versus pro forma results for 2006. Growth rates have improved every quarter over the past three quarters. That obviously reflects strong Wireless results as well as improved performance in key parts of our wireline operations.

Third, broadband and video net adds were up this quarter, reflecting strong customer demand. Our merger synergies are on track with -- and from a timing perspective, slightly ahead of -- our outlook.

We have ramped up our share repurchase activity. In the first quarter, we bought back $3 billion of our shares. That brings our total repurchases since the plan was announced to $5.7 billion. We now expect to complete the total planned $10 billion repurchase in the third quarter of this year. That is a quick overview.

Slide 7 shows you our earnings per share trajectory. As Rich mentioned, before merger-related items and the Wireless transaction gain, first-quarter EPS was $0.65. That is our eighth straight quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in adjusted EPS, as we continue to deliver on the multiyear outlook we reaffirmed in January.

Obviously, Wireless is an important driver of this growth. Adjusted operating income from our Wireless operations was up more than 80% year-over-year, with an adjusted EBITDA service margin of 38.9%. Strong execution of merger initiatives also drove margin expansion in our Wireline results.

Slide 8 shows you our consolidated margins. Adjusted operating income margin in the first quarter was 23.7%. That is up 640 basis points versus the year-ago quarter and ahead of our target range for the year, which was 21% to 23%. Based on these results, we are raising our margin outlook for the full year to the 23% to 24% range.

There are a number of drivers behind this margin expansion. Obviously, BellSouth is included in our first-quarter margins. Beyond that, our Wireless business is a key driver, with improvements in revenue and ARPU as well as operating costs and churn. Finally, Wireline operational initiatives and merger projects continue to yield benefits.

There has been no change to our outlook regarding financial impacts from Lightspeed this year, in that we continue to expect incremental dilution for the full-year 2007 to be between $0.03 and $0.05 per share, consistent with what we told you in January. It will increase during the year as we ramp the service.

At the same time, we expect to make continued progress on cost through the year as we execute merger initiatives in both Wireless and Wireline.

Slide 9 gives you an update on merger integration. As you see on this chart, last year, we achieved over $1 billion in savings from our SBC/ AT&T integration. That is a combination of both expense and capital. It was about $300 million above our original outlook.

This year, we expect that total to grow; and we expect those synergies will continue to run at the high end of our original target ranges. At this point, our AT&T merger initiatives are more than half complete.

This year, we have also begun to layer on savings from BellSouth. As we outlined for you in January, we expect synergies from both mergers to deliver more than $3 billion in savings this year, growing to more than $5 billion in 2008.

In the first quarter, our total cost synergies from the AT&T and BellSouth mergers totaled $900 million. Here is how that breaks out. First-quarter synergies from AT&T were $600 million, about $450 million of expense and $150 million in capital. Obviously, we are still early in BellSouth execution; but in the first quarter we achieved $300 million in total cost synergies. About three-fourths of those savings were from capital, primarily due to eliminating some portfolio projects.

Leveraging our experience with the AT&T merger, we were able to quickly migrate 30% of the BellSouth mass-market voice traffic in the first quarter. We expect to complete the migration of mass-market voice traffic by the third quarter of this year.

It is important to note that as we are taking costs out of the business, we are also growing overall revenues, consistent with the outlook we provided in January. The chart on slide 10 shows our trendline for total revenues versus pro forma results that combine AT&T, BellSouth, and Cingular.

This was our third consecutive quarter of overall revenue growth, with a clear ramp in growth rates. I think this demonstrates, first of all, the power of our Wireless results plus the consistent strength we are showing in regional business and the progress we have seen in enterprise trends, and the fact that our regional consumer revenues continue to be stable, contrary to what some may expect, driven by growth in broadband and bundling.

Slide 11 gives you an update on cash returned to shareowners. Our share repurchases in the first quarter totaled $3 billion; and as I said, we now expect to complete our $10 billion buyback in the third quarter. First-quarter share repurchases and dividends combined totaled $5.2 billion. For the full year, dividends plus the remainder of our share repurchase will take that total to $16 billion, more than double what we returned in 2006.

Looking at the first quarter, cash from operations totaled $4.6 billion, in line with our expectations. Capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. Our full-year capital outlook is unchanged -- in the midteens as a percent of total revenues. Also, our full-year outlook for free cash flow after dividends continues to be in the $4 billion to $5 billion range as we outlined in January.

In addition, we continue to integrate operations and always look for opportunities to generate cash by monetizing excess assets. For example, we generated over $700 million last year and $180 million in this first quarter in real estate sales.

That is an overview of our consolidated results. What I would like to do now is turn to our operations and look at first-quarter results in each of our three large segments, Wireless, Wireline, and Advertising and Publishing.

Slide 12 provides a financial summary for Wireless operations in the same format you are accustomed to seeing from Cingular in their quarterly conference calls. As an overview comment, I think it is clear our Wireless operational and financial progress is not only continuing, it is accelerating.

We reached $10 billion in total revenue for the quarter. Our Wireless service revenues were up 13.5%; again, our third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and our third consecutive quarter of improved year-over-year growth rates.

ARPU was up for the third straight quarter, driven by strong data growth. Churn continues to ratchet down. Our margins took a major step up. Our Wireless EBITDA service margin expanded 450 basis points sequentially and 700 basis points year-over-year to 38.9%. Over the past 12 months, we have grown our Wireless customer base by more than 6.4 million.

Slide 13 has more on our Wireless margins. First-quarter margins are on the same basis as those reported to you before the acquisition of BellSouth and the consolidation of Wireless in our financials. That means that intra-Company transactions have been market priced, and all Wireless costs are properly booked to the Wireless segment.

What drove our Wireless margins to new highs in this first quarter was the combination of a $1 billion increase year-over-year in revenues from customer growth, ARPU growth, and data growth, and relatively flat cash expenses due to synergies and the leverage of the integrated GSM network.

The main drivers of cost reduction are lower churn and improvements in the network and support cost structure. During the quarter, we eliminated 36 of the 80 information technology systems that were planned for 2007. We completed the shutdown of two legacy prepaid platforms. We now have all of our prepaid customers on one go-forward platform that provides for a better customer experience at a lower cost. We continue to migrate traffic and customers onto our network in California and Nevada as a result of the unwind of the T-Mobile joint venture. We now have 96% of our customers in those states on our network, giving them improved performance at a lower cost to AT&T.

Slide 14 shows our systems cost trends, driven by operational improvements following network integration. There's two factors here that are working together. First, we have rationalized the duplication in our network overlays, which has allowed us to decommission 4,300 cell sites over the past year. As a result, we have been able to terminate leases and T1 connections. In addition, our integration of the remaining GSM sites, plus a strong spectrum position, has provided us an efficient platform to handle future volume growth.

At the same time, as usage of our TDMA network has declined, we have started to [grow in] that part of our network. The result, as this chart shows, is a decline in Wireless cost of service as a percentage of Wireless revenue from 29% a year ago to 25% in the first quarter. Going forward, we will realize additional cost improvements as TDMA sunsets and more traffic is moved to 3G, driving data growth at a lower cost.

The network is the foundation of everything we do in Wireless. Network cost trends, as you see on this chart, are moving in the right direction. But at the same time, network performance has improved dramatically.

Network quality and coverage drive lower churn, and slide 15 shows the details. Our postpaid churn dropped to 1.3% in the first quarter. That is down 30 basis points year-over-year and 20 basis points sequentially, to our lowest level ever. These churn improvements have comes despite continued pressure from TDMA migrations, which we estimate had about a 10 basis point impact on postpaid churn and 10 to 15 basis point impact on total churn levels this quarter.

We continue to make good progress migrating TDMA customers to our GSM network. At the end of 2006, we had 2.4 million subscribers on our TDMA network; and three months later at the end of this first quarter, that was down to 1.8 million. Roughly half of those are wholesale customers.

Total churn has also declined, although not quite as dramatically as postpaid. It reflects the impact of the prepaid segment, which typically has higher churn in the first quarter following the December holiday gift season. But churn is moving in the right direction, and we expect to see continuing improvement as we launch new products, as we further enhance the network, and as we move beyond our TDMA migration.

The Wireless subscriber trends are on slide 16. First-quarter net adds were 1.2 million. Over the past year, we have added 6.4 million customers, bringing our in-service total above 62 million.

In addition to customer growth, the major trend reshaping Wireless is data usage. As you see in this bar chart, the number of our active data users has grown substantially, up more than 30% over the past year from 25 million a year ago to more than 33 million. Data usage has grown even more dramatically, as entertainment options explode and data-centric devices -- like the Blackberry 8800 which we launched in the first quarter -- continue to penetrate the base.

Data is a key element in our overall revenue growth as shown on slide 17. Our Wireless service revenues grew 13.5% in the first quarter. Wireless data revenues grew 67%. Our Wireless data ARPU was up 51%. It is now 16% of total ARPU. Postpaid data ARPU is over $9, an increase of approximately 55% year-over-year.

Data growth, which has historically been driven by text messaging, is now seeing significant contributions from media bundles, e-mail services, and data access. Looking ahead, I think we are strongly positioned to be a leader in wireless data because of our 3G network, which will reach virtually all top 100 US markets this year. And because of our success in launching innovative and compelling products, some of which are shown on slide 18.

We have launched a number of new 3G devices. We now have over 2.5 million UMTS users in our base. Our music strategy has been well received, as it gives customers the most alternatives in acquiring and accessing their favorite music. We became the first wireless carrier in North America to launch the Blackberry 8800, which has a full QWERTY keyboard, built-ins GPS, a trackball navigation system, media player, and push-to-talk.

We are also the first wireless carrier in the US to demonstrate a service that allows wireless phone users to easily share a live video as they talk. We expect this service to be commercially available later this year.

With our MediaFLO announcement, we are giving customers enhanced abilities to watch broadcast TV on their mobile devices. Of course, we were chosen to be the exclusive US carrier partner for Apple's revolutionary iPhone.

With new services such as these and more, along with the premier Wireless network, we are confident AT&T has a terrific future in wireless.

Now let me turn now and talk about our Wireline results, starting on slide 19. Wireline revenues in the first quarter totaled $18 billion. Versus pro forma results, that represents a decline of 3.2%, driven by expected reductions primarily in two categories. First, in national mass markets, the old UNE-P and stand-alone long distance business where the former AT&T discontinued marketing a couple of years ago. Secondly, in wholesale where, as expected, carriers are moving traffic to their own networks and UNE-P lines are declining.

Beyond these categories, our Wireline revenue trends in the first quarter were consistent with -- and in some cases improved -- versus recent results. At the same time, Wireline cost control and merger integration have been strong, and that has driven significant margin expansion.

Bottom line on both the cost side and in terms of revenue trends for key categories, our Wireline business is on target and continues to make good progress.

Now let's drill down on some of those customer categories, starting with regional business on slide 20. This has been an area of strength for us over several quarters, and in the first quarter growth moved up to 7%. The historical number shown here and throughout Wireline are pro forma, combining AT&T and BellSouth results consistently in every quarter.

There's a couple things that stand out for us, I believe, in regional business. First, we continue to see strong growth in small and medium business. I think one of the keys here is that we are selling products from the AT&T enterprise portfolio. Customers like the network reliability, the security features, and the bundled services we are now able to provide.

The second thing that stands out -- and it may be somewhat surprising -- is the fact that in regional business we continue to see good growth in both voice and data. On the voice side, access lines increased modestly in the quarter, as they have over the past several quarters; churn is low; and ARPU is stable. Regional business data revenue growth came from solid advances in both transport and IP services, led by strength in managed Internet, virtual private networking, and DSL. Data makes up now about 30% of our regional business revenues.

We also continue to see encouraging trends in enterprise; and the details are on slide 21. Demand is solid. Data transport volumes are strong. Enterprise IP services, which include virtual private networks, managed Internet services, and hosting, had strong double-digit growth as they have for several quarters. Our enterprise IP data revenues are now larger than traditional packet switch revenue, including frame and ATM.

Data revenues in total our approaching 50% of total enterprise revenues; and IP data revenues make up about 30% of enterprise data. That is up from 23% two years ago.

Best of all, we are winning contracts, including being awarded a place in the networks contract from the GSA, and a landmark multiyear contract from General Motors worth nearly $1 billion.

We have a premier global network for enterprise customers and we are expanding our capabilities, with an emphasis on growth areas such as in international, wireless, and managed hosting. By the end of 2007 we expect to have 38 Internet data centers deployed around the world, and the AT&T global network will provide multinational companies with MPLS-based access from 155 countries via more than 2,000 service nodes.

In addition, we are beginning to integrate wireless. We have announced last week that wireless access has been added as a connectivity option for AT&T VP and business customers. We have launched a set of bundled offers that would give midsize to large business the option of having a single monthly revenue commitment for their wireline and wireless services, and on-Net pricing for wireline-to-wireless calling.

Another thing we did in enterprise in the first quarter is to tighten our focus regarding customer premise equipment sales, putting an emphasis on those sales that are part of higher-margin service solutions. As a result, stand-alone CPE sales declined to their lowest levels in several quarters. That had an impact on reported enterprise revenues. But excluding CPE and revenues from acquired and sold assets, recurring service revenues for enterprise declined 3.4%, slightly better than a pro forma decline of 3.6% in the quarter before and declines of 5% three and four quarters ago.

As we have said before, the return to enterprise revenue growth is a process; and we have taken some important first steps -- winning contracts, adding capabilities in key growth areas like hosting international and wireless. We are on a good path to achieve positive enterprise revenue growth during 2008.

Moving to slide 22, this slide shows our regional consumer trends, and those are led by broadband. We had a terrific high-speed Internet quarter, with 691,000 net adds, 90% of them consumer. Our high-speed Internet connections are up 2.3 million over the past year, to reach 12.9 million in service. 42% of our DSL base takes speeds of 3 megabits or more.

Our move to simplify pricing last fall has improved the product's financials. Churn is down, volume is up, and ARPU on new sales is up as well. 33.7% of our consumer primary lines also have broadband service with us; and that is up from 26% a year ago. In California and Nevada, broadband penetration of primary consumer lines is now 42%.

I think the best volume measure in our consumer business is revenue connections. That is access lines, plus high-speed Internet, plus video. In the first quarter, total consumer connections increased by 402,000 as gains in video and Internet overcame declines in retail lines that were consistent with recent results. Primary consumer lines declined by 285,000 in the quarter; that compares with 331,000 in the preceding quarter and 251,000 in the year-ago quarter.

Over the past year, our consumer connections are up 1.1%. Excluding a discontinued Universal Service Fee on DSL that distorts year-over-year comparisons, consumer revenues were up slightly in the first quarter.

In addition to broadband, the next opportunity for us in our regional consumer business is video. Slide 23 gives you an update. In the first quarter, we added 187,000 video subscribers. That is bundled satellite combined with subscribers to our U-verse video service. We now have have 1.7 million video subs, with 520,000 added over the past year.

At the end of the first quarter, more than 5% of our consumer primary lines subscribed to a video solution from our Company. I think this tells you that we can sell video.

We are working to build penetration for our U-verse service. Over the past few months we have ramped deployment and marketing. We recently expanded in both Houston and Dallas; and last week we announced plans to launch in Los Angeles. At the end of the first quarter, we had 13,000 U-verse video subscribers. Our current number has grown to 20,000, up from 3,000 at the beginning of the year. U-verse installs per week ramped quickly in the first quarter, increasing from about 400 in January to about 2,000 currently. We expect that to ramp throughout the year, reaching 10,000 installs per week by the end of the year.

Best of all, more than 80% of our U-verse subscribers are taking higher-end video packages; and 65% are taking our highest-speed broadband service, both of which will drive revenues for customer.

Our third major segment is Advertising and Publishing, with highlights on slide 24. As you know, we have a large print directory business with 1,250 Yellow Page titles published annually. But also as a benefit that came from our BellSouth acquisition, we now have 100% ownership of yellowpages.com, the premier name in Internet directory services. This business is experiencing strong growth, with revenues up 56% in the first quarter versus last year.

Plus, we're pulling together a variety of local search options that begin to converge with our voice, broadband, and wireless services. Things like send-to-mobile, which lets Internet users send search results from yellowpages.com to their wireless phones as a text message. We also recently launched an optimized mobile browser interface available to subscribers of AT&T Wireless service. Last month, we launched YP411, bringing text message business search to consumer cellphones and PDA devices.

Our Advertising and Publishing operations produce margins approaching 50% with stable revenues and strong cash flow. They have great opportunities for innovation and integration with our other services. We believe they have a promising future.

Let me close with a quick recap on slide 25. In January, we reaffirmed our outlook. We said we would grow revenues this year, expand margins, and deliver double-digit adjusted EPS growth. Our first-quarter results met that outlook or exceeded it on all counts. We posted our third straight quarter of pro forma revenue growth. Margins were up in both Wireless and Wireline. We posted our eighth quarter consecutively of double-digit adjusted EPS growth of 25%.

We are on track with our AT&T merger integration plans; and we are off to a good start with BellSouth. Best of all, we are encouraged by demand we see in the market for our products, with strong data and revenue growth in Wireless; increased subscriber growth in broadband and video; and steady improvement in our business segments.

As always, there is more we can do and we have got a great deal of opportunity in front of us at AT&T. We look forward to delivering for you in the quarters ahead. With that, Rich, I will turn it back to you. I think we are ready for some questions.

RICH DIETZ: Okay, great. Thank you, Rick. Loraine, we are ready for our Q&A session, so if you would begin the process?

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Simon Flannery from Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Okay, good morning. Thanks very much. Can we spend a second on U-verse? It would be helpful to get some metrics around how many homes you have now built out the Lightspeed architecture to, how many you are marketing to, to get some penetration around there. How should we think about it for the rest of this year?

And where we are in terms of thinking about BellSouth buildout, as well as any sort of per, per-add or per-home-pass sort of metrics.

Finally, any comment on franchising? Is that a limitation anywhere? Thanks a lot.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Simon. Good morning. On U-verse, as you know, we had at the end of last year built out to a little over 2 million homes. That number is in the upper 2 million range, approaching 3 million now.

But as we told you, as we role this product out and we launch markets, we are launching in a more confined area in each of the markets; and then we are expanding those areas. So you know, I would estimate today as an example, we may be marketing to 25%, 30% or so of those homes.

Both of those numbers will expand as the year goes on. We will just continue to ramp, launching new markets. We expect to build out to around 8 million homes by the end of this year. We will continue to grow the areas within the launched markets that we are selling to as we get more technicians on board and we get technicians trained. We will just continually ramp the service.

As we said earlier, we expect to go from about 2,000 installs a week, which is where we are today, up to about 10,000 installs as our goal per week by the end of the year.

The franchising has not been an issue for us at this point in terms of the ramp. In fact, we continue to make good progress, particularly at the state levels. We have got the ability to launch video in, I think, roughly 50% of our states, covering about 60% or so of our access lines today. And we are making very good progress on the state level.

In addition to that, we are working with key municipalities individually in a number of states. So I don't see that as an issue that would slow the build or slow the ramp at this point.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. Anything on BellSouth, and also on the sort of metrics of your cost per connection and so forth? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Yes, in terms of BellSouth, we are working on plans and details for launching IP TV service in the BellSouth territory. Our goal is to get a market launched by the end of this year. We are working toward that. I would expect we will have more details on that, Simon, in the next couple of months. But that is the plan right now.

We are looking at the technologies. We're looking at what they have deployed in their local plant, and how we can adapt that and use that in an IP TV infrastructure.

I think in terms of the metrics, there's not any surprises in what we are seeing. In some areas, we are doing a little bit more line conditioning than we originally expected. But I think that will change over time as we continue to deploy the service.

The installation time will come down. We are currently running at a little over seven hours per install, but that reflects a lot of new technicians who are very early on in the process. If you start looking at some of the technicians now that have been involved in installations for 90 days or more, their times are coming down. As we get further out and we begin to use an iNID, an Intelligent Network Interface Device, that will reduce the installation times further.

So I think the metrics we are seeing are generally consistent with what we expected in the project at this point. I think we are pleasantly surprised by the number of customers so far that are taking higher-speed data and higher-end video packages, which actually, I think, gives us some upside on the revenue and the ARPU side.

SIMON FLANNERY: That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thanks. Maybe just a couple here. First, on the ARPU trends in Wireless, Rick, now that data is 16% of total ARPU and we are still seeing growth in the low 50s, given that its momentum is kind of continuing to grow, is there some reason to believe that we should not see some incremental element of acceleration in ARPU year-over-year? I guess, Pete earlier this year was talking about kind of flattish to slightly up. But starting at kind of the 1.4% level, it looks like things might get a little bit better from here on that front.

The second question was just if maybe you could do us a favor and kind of recap the Telecom Italia situation and kind of lay out what the international strategy is, so we aren't necessarily surprised the next time we see AT&T get involved in something.

Then the last would be just on networks. Is there any way to kind of put a number around that being a tangible part of '08 enterprise revenues? Thanks a lot.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, David. On wireless ARPU, we are very pleased with the results we are seeing, and particularly on the data side. Total ARPU growth this quarter year-over-year was 1.4%. But when you start to look at our postpaid ARPU and start breaking it down into components, that 1.4% reflects some growth in the mix over the last year in resale. When you start looking at postpaid, for example, we are seeing year-over-year ARPU growth above 4%. That is very encouraging, and it is being driven by data.

I think the other thing that is encouraging in data growth is the source of that growth. If you went back a year ago, I think we would have said data growth was almost entirely due to text messaging. What we are seeing today is increasingly data growth is coming from other sources. It is coming from customers buying media bundles. In other words, they are buying a bundled service that allows them a large number of text messages, multimedia messages, and Internet browsing capabilities.

It is coming from customers that are adopting e-mail services, like Blackberry, on their mobile devices. And it is coming from customers that are buying data-only packages for their laptops or data-only PDA devices.

So you know, I would have said at one point in time data growth would expand to be maybe 20% of total ARPU. I am not certain that it won't expand beyond that based on the trends we are seeing.

I think with Telecom Italia, I would tell you that was an opportunity that we felt was worth looking at. That for an equity investment there, that there may have been an opportunity to work with a company that had not only a strong network presence in Italy, but had network assets and presence throughout Europe. So that was basically our main interest in that asset.

It was one that we felt we had opportunities to bring value to the company; and we felt we had opportunities, potentially certainly to bring value to our shareowners; and it was worth a look. As we got into the transaction and we did some due diligence and got further into it, we decided it was in the right fit for us and wasn't the right thing for our shareowners, and so we have declined to move forward with it.

I think from the standpoint of our interest longer-term, obviously, we are interested in areas where we believe there are assets that would not just produce synergies, but would assist us in areas that provide future growth on the top line.

So to the extent there were opportunities to strengthen our enterprise business, and particularly to strengthen it internationally, we would certainly want to take a look at those. To the extent there are opportunities to strengthen our Wireless business, which is a major source of growth, we will continue to look at opportunities there as well.

So I don't think there's anything more to it than that. We saw it as a somewhat unique opportunity that was worth spending some time doing some due diligence and taking a look.

You mentioned the networks contract. I think there's a couple things that we are very pleased with in terms of the future for us in enterprise. Let me mention one other first, and then talk a little bit about networks.

The first is, as an example, our contract with General Motors. That is important to us, one, because it is a large contract. It is a $1 billion contract over a five-year period with some incremental revenue growth associated with it.

But it also gives us the opportunity to move into areas that we want to move in with our enterprise customers. It gives us an opportunity to work with a customer and help them to manage their networks on a global basis, migrate to an IP/MPLS-based infrastructure.

Likewise, with networks, it's a great opportunity for us, but it is difficult to quantify at this point, certainly with respect to trying to quantify a 2007 or a 2008 impact. As you know, the contract award there gives you the ability, then, to compete for a large volume of government contracts and spending. So, it puts us in a very good position on those contracts, but we have got to go still and win the business.

Still and all, I think those two give us a lot of encouragement for what we are going to be able to do with the enterprise business going forward.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik from UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, thanks. Good morning, guys. Two quick ones. First, you have put together a nice set of numbers in terms of the accelerating revenue growth you have seen over the last year. I know you haven't given a lot of guidance on the top line, aside from the fact that there would be growth.

But how should we expect that to trend over the next few quarters? It seems like a lot of the improvement has been from Wireless. You have got Wireless growing at a sort of above-average trend now. But if you could talk a little bit about the sort of gives and takes around your top-line growth over the next year that would be great.

Then second of all, the CapEx number came in quite a bit lower than we thought. Can we get a -- you might have given out in some of the detail; but can we get a Wireline/Wireless breakout? Is there any reason why it was lower than we had expected? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, John. On the revenue growth side, our expectation is that we would like to continue that ramp up in the revenue growth. As you saw, we are seeing good trends in revenue and ARPU from Wireless. That is certainly driving the positive revenue growth on a consolidated basis.

But I think, underneath that as well, is -- we have got some good opportunities as we go forward in this year in both Wireless and Wireline. Certainly, we would expect to see continued improvements in our enterprise business as we go forward in this year. We would also -- you know, I think we are going to see another quarter or two of revenue declines in wholesale because of the reasons we have talked about before. It is just a function of some UNE-P declines and it is a function of carriers consolidating traffic and moving traffic onto their own networks. But as we get later in this year, that will start to stabilize.

Then, we have got some exciting products coming out in both Wireless and Wireline. On the Wireless side, obviously, the iPhone launching in June is a very interesting product for us. We're getting more and more excited about it as we get closer to launch. As I am sure you have seen, we have never had a product in 20-plus years in the Wireless business that has had that much anticipation and that much buzz around it. So we are excited about that opportunity in the second half of the year for the Wireless business.

We are also excited about what we are seeing in video and the ability to begin to ramp now the U-verse service as we go throughout this year, which will start to give some lift to our consumer revenues.

On top of that, you know, when you back off from our revenue growth, the thing that you have to keep in mind when you look at Wireline, for example, is while we are seeing, I think, good cash flow and value from the national mass-market base of legacy AT&T, it does and it has caused some reduction in our revenue growth rates as that base has attritioned out. But that base is getting smaller, and so the impacts from that will get smaller as we go forward.

Plus, we are working and will continue to work to migrate customers that are in region both on the consumer and business side into bundled services with us, so we can begin to migrate them into our retail base and begin to bundle more services with them. And that is really where the future is from a Wireline perspective.

A couple of interesting things we have seen in the last year related to bundling. When you look at consumer customers from a bundled standpoint, customers that are stand-alone voice customers have ARPUs in the low $40 range. As they begin to bundle and as we move them upwards to a full-quad bundle, where they have got voice, data, video, and wireless from us, all of a sudden that customer moves to a $250, $260 kind of monthly customer. At the same time, the churn rates go -- they are cut by two-thirds when you move from that stand-alone voice customer to a full-quad bundled customer.

So those are the kinds of things I think -- and those are all things that you should expect and anticipate and we have talked about -- that will contribute to a ramp in revenue growth as we go forward over the next couple of years.

On CapEx, you mentioned the first quarter was a low CapEx quarter for us. That is not atypical of first quarter. But there are a couple of other things I think in the first quarter that, just from a timing perspective, caused a little bit of pause in capital spending.

One is in our Wireless business there's a couple of things going on there. Number one, we have brought in Richard Burns from BellSouth to run the network organization there. As he has come into the organization, it is just natural he wanted to take a review of the capital spend plan for the year, and work through where he wanted to prioritize capital spending. So that has created probably a little bit of a pause and a timing of cap spend in the Wireless business.

But on top of that, as we have talked about before, we have got a unique situation there as a result of the network integration. The network integration of the local networks that we completed in the latter part of last year has put us in a position where we have got a very good, dense, cell site infrastructure combined with a good spectrum position, and some GSM equipment that was available after the consolidation of the networks that we can deploy. The net result of all that is it gives us the ability to grow traffic and volumes with very little capacity capital costs.

So I think those are the things you see in Wireless.

On the Wireline side, there may have been a little bit of a similar situation in the BellSouth region, where with the acquisition closing right at the end of the year, it took a little bit of time to get in and kind of assess the capital program and get the capital program in place for the year.

But in total, when you look across the business, I think we are comfortable with our guidance for the full year; and that remains midteens as a percent of revenues.

JOHN HODULIK: Can you give us the split of Wireline and Wireless for the quarter?

RICK LINDNER: I don't have the numbers right in front of -- well, yes I do. Hold on, John. Our total CapEx, as you know, was $3.3 billion. Wireless was right around $0.5 billion in the quarter.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins from Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning. Just a couple of Wireless questions. The first one is if you could talk about the 700 megahertz spectrum auctions, and just give us some perspective on how you look at your spectrum position, and how you think that auction should even develop, if you have a view going into it, with I think a vote coming up soon on how the auction is going to be shaped.

Then just secondly, in terms of the competitive environment, how are you seeing rate plan price competition out there? How do you see the subprime market evolving as it affects your customer base? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Michael. On the 700 megahertz auctions, we are going to do our typical analysis and review in terms of a strategy and a plan for how we would participate.

In terms of looking at it as spectrum that would be used in our Wireless and our mobile Wireless operations, you know, there I would expect we would look at it the same way we did in the last spectrum auctions. Which is simply to look at that, a forecast of the business and the traffic, by market, with and without that spectrum. And then determine how that impacts our capital expenditures that would be required to support various volume levels. Then that in effect determines the value that we place on that spectrum in the auction.

So I would expect us to take there a similar approach. This spectrum, with its propagation characteristics, potentially could have some other applications. But we are still early in the analysis of that.

On the rate plan side, I think, you know, pricing and rate plans overall have been fairly stable. We have seen a little bit of move in a couple of areas. Carriers going to some bundled pricing that includes unlimited text messaging, for example. But for the most part, the rate plans have been relatively stable.

We have seen I think, beginning in the fourth quarter and going through the first quarter, I think we have seen a little more aggressive pricing environment in the market on devices and handsets. So we will have to see how that continues throughout this year. Because that obviously can have some impact on margins.

In terms us of the subprime market, I think some of the local carriers with unlimited products, the Leaps and MetroPCSs, are gaining some share. I think their share gains tend to be -- tend to come out of prepaid and some low-end postpaid segments.

But it really still is a niche product in terms of the network quality and the coverage and the segment of the customer base that they are going after.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

RICH DIETZ: Loraine, our next question will need to be our last question for the day.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong from Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning, guys. A couple just I guess final questions. Number one, corporate free cash flow projections for the year. You have left the guidance where it was previously. You have got good momentum in the operating margins, where you raised guidance. Obviously tight reins on the capital spending side.

Can you provide some more color on what is preventing you from taking up the free cash flow guidance at the consolidated level?

Then second question just specifically on the Wireless margins. A substantial step up, obviously, in the margins this quarter. In helping us think through the trajectory from here, you talked about a number of other initiatives on the cost side that could drive further improvements over the course of '07. So as we think about the further improvements, is this quarter sort of the floor that we build off of? Or are there things specific to this quarter -- maybe the lower gross add number or something else -- that sort of limit this as a starting point for the rest of '07? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Good questions, Jason. I think first of all on free cash flow, we will continue to evaluate guidance as we go through the year. The first quarter is always a very low free cash flow and a low operating cash flow quarter for us. It is a variety of reasons. But first quarter contains all of our annual employee incentive payments, annual bonuses, long-term compensation. It also includes typically a pretty significant reduction in accounts payable. A lot of things that in our business -- maintenance contracts, and so forth -- that tend to be on an annual basis come up for renewal. So those payments go out.

In addition, this year, we had severance, changing control payments, and we had all of the costs associated with the BellSouth deal. Because it closed December 29, all of those cash payments went out first quarter.

So I think as we go forward in the year, we will see how operating cash flow develops. We will see how the CapEx trends continue. You know, I would like to get another quarter or so and see where the results are before we start making changes to guidance.

As we have said before, at this point we expect our CapEx guidance to be unchanged. That will be that guidance for the year. Our operating cash flow in the first quarter was essentially on our expectation, so I didn't have a trigger at this point to change anything from a cash flow perspective.

In terms of Wireless margins, we were really pleased with the step up in the Wireless margins this quarter. I would tell you that roughly of the 700 basis point increase or so, 50% or more came from cost of service. So it came from network costs, access costs, moving traffic from the T-Mobile network back to our network in California. Those kinds of things.

30% or so came from savings that continue to be merger-related in areas like IT and billing and customer care, G&A kinds of areas. Then there was some margin improvement as a result of having year-over-year a lower level of gross adds particularly in postpaid. But that was a fairly minor part of it year-over-year.

I think going forward, we are going to continue to have some improvements in the network areas as we go through the year. We're going to continue to have some improvements in the G&A costs as we go forward this year.

But I think really the next big step function improvement, particularly on the network side, comes when we sunset the TDMA network. I think what we will see going forward in this year then is probably more marginal improvements. But we have got the opportunity next year then for a bigger step function as we sunset TDMA.

The only other thing on Wireless margins which is just add little bit of a wild-card, we have to just see how it develops -- it the comment I made earlier in terms of how the market develops for handset pricing, advertising promotions, the customer acquisition costs. If I see any potential pressure to the business going forward this year on margins, it is more on the acquisition cost side than it is on network or G&A.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great, thanks, Rick.

RICH DIETZ: Okay, that will conclude our Q&A session. I'd now like to turn it back to Rick for some closing comments.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Rich, and I would like to thank all of you for being on the call with us today. We do appreciate your interest.

As we said, this quarter reflects our first three months of operations after BellSouth. I hope, as you have seen, we are off to a good start. The merger projects are on track. We had great margin expansion, including a major step-up Wireless margins. Wireless data, Wireless ARPU, Wireless revenues are all continuing to grow. Regional business revenues continue to be strong. Enterprise is on a solid path to growth.

On top of that, we had a very good broadband quarter and we had a very good video quarter. Our U-verse video service is beginning to ramp.

So as a result, we are encouraged. As I said at the outset, we continue to be confident in our ability to deliver on the targets we laid out for you in January. Obviously, still a lot of work in front of us and a lot to do. But we do look forward to continuing our record of delivering for you in the quarters ahead. So again, thanks for joining us and thanks for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Rick. Loraine, that conclude our call this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070502e34o0004u
  


 HD
 Q4  2006  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,365 words
   PD
25 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T fourth-quarter earnings release for 2006 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

   TD
RICH DIETZ, SVP-IR, AT&T INC.: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to AT&T's fourth-quarter earnings call. It's great to have you with us this morning.

On the call today we have our Chairman and CEO, Ed Whitacre, who will provide opening remarks. Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer, will cover our results and updated guidance. Then after our prepared comments, we will have a Q&A session as usual, and Ray Winborne, Senior Vice President of Finance for our Southeast region, the former BellSouth, will be available to address questions regarding BellSouth's fourth-quarter results.

Our release, investor briefing and supplementary information were issued earlier today. They are available on the investors' relations page of the AT&T Website. The presentation slides we will speak to on this call are also available on that same webpage, att.com/investor relations.

Before we get started, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise.

This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are available on our Website, att/investor relations.

Now turning to slide 4, let me provide a brief roadmap of reporting issues following our BellSouth merger. As you know, the transaction closed on December 29. As a result, AT&T's fourth-quarter results include just two days from BellSouth operations and two days of Cingular results, reflecting our 100% postmerger ownership. The impact of those two days on our reported and adjusted fourth-quarter earnings per share was immaterial.

Looking at our statements of segment income, BellSouth operating results for the two days after the merger closed are included in the Other segment. And Wireless's full fourth-quarter results are shown as their own segment, consistent with our previous reporting.

Also, to help you with trends separate from AT&T fourth-quarter results, we are furnishing a summary of BellSouth full fourth-quarter results, consistent with BellSouth's previously reported quarters prior to its acquisition by AT&T. The summary is available on the investor relations page of our Website under the Financial and Operational Results heading.

Today, we filed an 8-K with quarterly consolidated pro forma income statements for the combined Company for 2006. These statements are also available on our Website.

Looking ahead, starting with the first-quarter 2007 results, Wireless results will be part of our consolidated revenue and expense lines, reflecting 100% ownership. And BellSouth's results will be combined as part of AT&T's consolidated results and our segment results. And as we did following the AT&T corp merger last year, we plan to provide you with pro forma revenue trends by quarter, by product and by customer category for 2005 and 2006. We expect to make those available in April, prior to our first-quarter earnings release.

Okay. With that as background, let me now cover our fourth-quarter EPS comparisons, which are on slide 5. Adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.61. That's shown in the first column on this slide. Starting at the top and working down, reported EPS was $0.50. We add back $0.05 of Cingular merger costs. We also add back $0.05 of AT&T merger costs. Initial BellSouth merger integration costs add $0.01. The result is an adjusted EPS of $0.61.

The EPS walkdown for the year-ago quarter is in the right-hand column. In the fourth quarter of 2005, reported EPS was $0.46. We add $0.08 of Cingular merger and storm-related costs. We add back $0.16 of AT&T merger costs. We also had $0.02 for non-merger severance. In addition, we had a gain of $0.25 from 2005 tax settlements. This resulted in an adjusted EPS of $0.48.

So our reported EPS in the fourth quarter this year was $0.50, up 9% versus the year-earlier quarter. And our adjusted EPS was $0.61; that's up 27% versus comparable results in the fourth quarter a year ago.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ed Whitacre, AT&T's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Ed?

ED WHITACRE, CHAIRMAN, CEO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Rich, and good morning to all of you. We're glad you're here and it's my pleasure to talk about AT&T this morning.

A year ago in New York, we laid out for you a three-year plan for our Company. At that time, we said we were at the beginning of a positive turn in the industry. And we set as our target double-digit adjusted EPS growth in each of the three years ahead. In the year since then, I believe we've executed well and we have exceeded our targets.

For the full year, our adjusted EPS was up 36%. We announced and completed our merger with BellSouth, and BellSouth also had a very solid year. And AT&T shareowners were rewarded with a total return in 2006 of more than 50%.

In addition, I'm happy to say that we closed the year strong with our seventh straight quarter of double-digit adjusted EPS growth. And we're headed into 2007 with excellent momentum.

We also returned considerable cash to shareowners. Our planned $10 billion share repurchase is on track to be completed by the end of this year. And in December, as you know, we increased the AT&T dividend 6.8%, and that is double the increase of the past few years.

Our view that the industry was beginning to rebound has been validated, I believe. Certainly industry fundamentals have improved. Demand is solid, especially in growth areas like wireless, business and advanced data services. And while new technologies and increased competition continue to reshape communications, the industry is much more diverse and its potential has gotten much bigger.

I believe the industry has made its positive turn. We're still early in the ramp and there's a lot of upside opportunity ahead. And in this environment, the new AT&T is strongly positioned with the best assets in the industry, including 100% of the United States number one wireless provider.

So today, we are reaffirming the outlook we first outlined for you a year ago, including double-digit adjusted EPS growth in each of the next two years.

Our EPS outlook obviously reflects the synergy opportunities we have, which are large. But I want to make one thing clear -- while cost reduction is important, we also plan to grow the top line at AT&T, and we expect to return to overall revenue growth this year.

We have great assets, we have a tremendous brand and a terrific leadership team, and our long-term plan includes revenue growth in every part of our business.

Slide 8 shows the new AT&T's revenue mix. Wireless makes up more than one-third of our total revenues, approaching a $40 billion annual run rate. And we expect Wireless service revenues to continue the kind of growth we saw in the second half of 2006.

Business and Wholesale together make up nearly 40%. Enterprise revenues are headed in the right direction, and Regional Business continues to deliver solid growth.

Wireline Consumer is just under one-fourth of our total revenue base. And we believe there's a lot of opportunity here as well, as we bundle broadband and ramp video. AT&T today is the nation's leading broadband provider, with more than 12 million high-speed Internet connections.

We have a terrific Directory business, a print business with margins in the 50% range, and we have full ownership of yellowpages.com, the premier brand in the Internet directory space. In addition to Directory, the other category on this chart includes our Sterling Commerce unit. Sterling is one of the world's largest providers of software and services for supply chain management and e-commerce. Sterling has more than 30,000 customers worldwide, including 79% of the Fortune 500. And it's a growing business.

In total, more than three-fourths of AT&T's revenues today come from Wireless and sales to business. And a high percentage of our growth is coming from advanced data and broadband services. That is true in both Wireless and Wireline. These are all areas of strength for the new AT&T.

Before I turn the call over to Rick, I want to comment briefly on five specific operational priorities that you can expect from us as we move forward this year. Number one is to strengthen our lead in Wireless, including a further margin expansion. When we acquired AT&T Wireless two years ago, we said our goal was to build the best wireless company in the business; we've done that.

Today, we lead the industry in wireless flow share, and other leading companies look to us first for innovation in wireless. The best example of that is our exclusive with Apple on the iPhone. It's a great handset and I believe it's going to be a big winner.

Our second priority is to lead in business and return enterprise to top-line growth. We're expanding our reach and capabilities. Customers do appreciate the quality of our network, demand is solid and we expect growth rates to continue to move up.

Number three is to strengthen our position as a provider of choice for small and medium business customers. Over the past year, we've accelerated revenue growth rates in this space into double digits. With our array of services, we should continue to do very well.

Number four is to ramp up deployment of video services. AT&T U-verse services are in 11 markets today. We will add to that, and consumer revenues will grow as we ramp our video services. We're committed to IPTV and a fiber-to-the-node network. It's the right architecture for the long-term. We see it in the field; it works and it delivers a great service for customers.

Our fifth priority is to take the lead in wireless-wireline convergence. We think this is a big opportunity for us, and you saw the dramatic first step last week when we launched our new AT&T Unity Service, which creates a 100 million plus wireless-wireline calling community.

Another key objective is to continually improve customer service. Outstanding customer service can and does make a competitive difference. Over the past two years, you have seen Cingular take huge steps up in customer service metrics. Cingular has reduced the number of systems they run and they are getting more efficient. We will continue to apply those same approaches across our business.

In addition to these initiatives, we will also deliver on merger synergies and improve our cost structure. We exceeded our 2006 target range for AT&T merger synergies, and as Rick will cover in a few minutes, we have raised our outlook for BellSouth merger synergies, moving our net present value estimate up from our earlier forecast of 18 billion to 23 billion.

We do have a strong record on merger integration, and we will deliver. That is our short list. We feel good about our business and we expect to get a lot this year. That covers what I had prepared to say, and now Rick Lindner will cover results. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Ed, and good morning, everyone. What I would like to do in the next few minutes is to cover our results in a little more detail, and I will follow the format and pattern we've used over the past several quarters. I'll have some comments on guidance as we go through the results, and then I will conclude with a recap of our updated outlook.

Slide 11 shows our EPS results for the fourth quarter and for the year. As Ed told you, this was our seventh straight quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in adjusted EPS. And for the full year, adjusted EPS was up 36% versus comparable adjusted results for 2005.

The drivers of this EPS growth are straightforward. The first driver is Wireless, where revenue growth is accelerating and margins continue to ramp up, and there is substantial upside ahead.

The second driver is Wireline, where solid results from merger integration have driven margin expansion. And at the same time, Wireline revenue trends are improving, particularly in business. This momentum and the opportunity we see in our BellSouth merger has strengthened our outlook over the past year, and we continue to expect double-digit adjusted EPS growth in 2007 and in 2008.

Now let's start with a quick look at Wireless. And there are a few key points I'd like to emphasize, and those are summarized on slide 12. The first point is our Wireless growth rates have accelerated. In the fourth quarter, we had record gross adds, record net adds, and we ended the year with 61 million subscribers.

On top of those subscriber gains, we're also seeing very strong Wireless data growth. Data revenues were up 69%. Data ARPU was up $0.87 in the quarter and 53% over the past year. And looking ahead, we have a lot of upside potential in date revenues as we expand our 3G network and our selection of data devices and services.

For the second straight quarter, we delivered a year-over-year increase in service ARPU, and postpaid ARPU increases were even stronger than the blended total we report.

We had our second straight quarter with double-digit growth in service revenues. And as Stan Sigman said in his call yesterday, we expect to deliver low double-digit service revenue growth in 2007.

The second point I'd like to make about our Wireless business is that while we are very pleased with the margin expansion achieved to date, there is still a great deal of margin upside ahead. Our fourth-quarter adjusted service EBITDA margin was up 340 basis points over the past year, and our fourth-quarter adjusted operating income from Wireless was nearly 600 million better than the fourth quarter a year ago. We expect Wireless service margins to be in the high 30% range for the full year 2007 and to exceed 40% for the full year 2008, once we're able to sunset our TDMA and analog networks.

We've also been on a path of margin expansion in our consolidated operations, as we show on slide 13. As Rich mentioned, only two days of Cingular and BellSouth results are reflected in our consolidated margins, so this essentially shows premerger AT&T. Our adjusted operating income margin in the fourth quarter was 18.2%; that is up 190 basis points versus a year ago. And for the year, we're at 18.5%, up 160 basis points.

We've now delivered seven consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvement in adjusted consolidated margins. The drivers are stabilizing revenue trends, operational initiatives underway to streamline and remove cost, and merger synergies. With the improvement we're seeing in revenue trends and the projected increase in merger synergies, we now expect our 2007 full-year adjusted margins, which will include the former BellSouth operations as well as our Wireless business on a consolidated basis, will be in the 21% to 23% range.

Now let's turn and talk a little bit about the revenue trends in our Wireline business, starting on slide 14. This is the same slide we've provided to you the past few quarters, and it tracks Wireline revenues by customer category. And of course, it includes the combined operations of the former SBC and AT&T business units, so the growth rates shown here are pro forma.

Starting at the top, our regional business revenues grew 7.5%. That is up from 6.6% growth rate last quarter and consistent with our mid-single-digit growth rates in this space for the past seven quarters.

Our regional consumer revenues grew 0.1%, with bundling and broadband offsetting competitive impacts.

Enterprise revenues totaled $4.4 billion, with a year-over-year decline of 3.7%. This compares to declines of 5.1% in the third quarter and 7.3% in the second quarter. We're seeing and continuing to see a clear improvement in enterprise growth rates, and later in this discussion, we will cover that improvement in greater detail.

Next is wholesale, where results largely reflect industry consolidation. As we expected, carriers are moving traffic onto their own networks, parallel to moves we've made in our own business. And moving that traffic affects year-over-year comparisons.

Also shown on the bottom of this slide are the former AT&T national mass-market customers. This category represents 63% of our year-over-year decline in revenue.

Sequentially, Wireline revenues excluding national mass-markets increased in the fourth quarter over third-quarter levels.

Based on these trends and the strength of our Wireless results, we expect a return to overall revenue growth in 2007 versus pro forma results.

Now let's drill down on some of these customer categories, starting with regional business on slide 15. This has been an area of the strength for us now for several quarters, and the trends continue to be solid. There's a couple of things that stand out in this part of our business.

First, we continue to see double-digit growth in small and medium business. One of the keys is that we're selling products from the AT&T enterprise portfolio into the small and medium business customer space. Customers like the network reliability, the security and the bundled service we're able to provide.

The second thing that stands out -- and it may be somewhat surprising -- is the fact we continue to see good growth in both voice and data in regional business. On the voice side, access lines increased modestly in the quarter, as they have over the past several quarters, churn rates are low and ARPU is stable.

At the same time, our regional business data revenues grew 18%, with solid growth in transport and 25% growth in IP data, led by strengthen in managed Internet services, Virtual Private Networking and DSL. Data now makes up nearly 30% of our regional business revenues. With broad product sets and well-established relationships with these customers, we expect to continue to see strong growth in regional business.

Slide 16 shows regional consumer trends. Total consumer connections -- that is retail access lines plus high-speed data and video -- were up 259,000 over the past year. Primary access line losses were 227,000, down slightly from last quarter. And high-speed Internet net adds totaled 383,000; 90% of them are consumer, in line with third-quarter results.

Just looking at the AT&T results, our broadband penetration of primary lines is now above 33%, and in our West region it's right at 40%. And more of these customers are opting for higher speeds -- 43% of our consumer DSL base subscribed to higher speed service; that is up from 25% a year ago.

The key drivers in consumer continue to be broadband and bundling, and we're doing a lot in both areas. In early October, we simplified our pricing for DSL and added a new speed tier to our lineup. The convenience of simple, flat rate pricing with no contract term, plus the added speed tier choice, stimulated demand as we moved through the quarter. The effect is an improvement in inward ARPU, an improvement in volumes and an improvement in customer retention.

Innovation such as this offer expand the opportunity we have in regional consumer, and video will create another opportunity. Let me give you a quick update on video on slide 17. We've now launched U-verse service in 11 markets; all of these markets have HDTV. Our fiber-to-the-node architecture is performing well. Bandwidth delivered to homes is as good as or better than original forecast.

And customer response has been positive. 70% of customers who are signing up take higher-end video packages, and 70% are taking our highest broadband speeds. As Ed said, our experience to date has strengthened our commitment to IPTV delivered over fiber-to-the-node. It's the right technology and it's the right approach financially.

We're working now on a few final adjustments to the software and video infrastructure, and then we will begin ramping the product launch. We will expand our build to pass 8 million living units by the end of this year. And as we scale, we will concentrate on delivering a quality customer experience, so you can expect we will continue to follow a disciplined approach.

In 2006, U-verse dilution was about $0.06 a share. And as we ramp this product in 2007, we would expect that dilution to increase to between $0.09 and $0.11 per share, which is $0.03 to $0.05 higher than in 2006.

In addition to U-verse, we're also seeing strong customer response to our dish bundle and to our Homezone product. We've added 49,000 satellite subscribers in the fourth quarter, and together with BellSouth, we now have 1.5 million video customers.

I promised a more detailed look at our enterprise trends, and the details are on slide 18. We continue to see steady improvement in enterprise revenue trends. Demand is solid, data transport volumes are strong, the pricing environment has not changed substantially, and we're capturing our share of technology migration as customers move from packet-based service to IP data. In fact, enterprise IP services, which include Virtual Private Networks, managed Internet services, and hosting, had strong double-digit growth in the fourth quarter. And our enterprise IP data revenues are now larger than traditional packet-switched revenue, including Frame and ATM.

As a result of these trends, for the third consecutive quarter, we posted a sequential decline in enterprise revenues of less than 1%. And we're seeing clear improvement in year-over-year growth rates.

Looking at total enterprise revenues over the past three quarters, the year-over-year decline has moved from 7.3% to 5.1% to 3.7%. And if you look at what we call recurring revenues -- that takes out equipment sales and the effects of asset sales and acquisitions -- we had a similar climb -- from 5.9% to 4.4% to 3.9%.

As we've said before, return to enterprise revenue growth is a gradual process, but we're moving in the right direction, and the BellSouth acquisition will increase our enterprise opportunity. And we expect to achieve positive enterprise revenue growth during 2008.

In addition to the progress we're making in revenues, the other key driver in Wireline results is the execution of our SBC-AT&T merger initiatives. And we have an update for you on slide 19. A year ago, we projected full-year 2006 merger synergies to be $600 million to $800 million. And total synergies achieved in 2006 came in at $1.1 billion, essentially $300 million above the top end of our original target.

We had a total net force reduction during 2006 of 12,000. That excludes about 700 people that came into our business from the USi acquisition.

We now expect 2007 and 2008 merger synergies from the AT&T merger to run at the high end of our original target ranges. We also expect merger integration expenses in 2007 to be approximately $200 million, below the $400 million to $600 million range in our original plan.

The climb from $1.1 billion in savings in 2006 to nearly a $3 billion run rate in 2008 is expected to be driven by additional force consolidation and reduced access costs, as we further integrate networks.

So the bottom line of AT&T merger integration is that, number one, we are ahead of schedule at this point. Two, our 2007 and 2008 outlook is now at the top end of our previous ranges. And we're still early in terms of realizing cost synergies, with much of the upside still ahead of us.

These merger synergies have driven our total cash flow and our cash outlook, and the details are on slide 20. Despite year one integration costs for the AT&T merger, in 2006 free cash flow after dividends, including proportionate Cingular, was $2.9 billion, well above our original $2 billion target. Looking ahead, we expect capital expenditures, including BellSouth and Cingular, to remain in the midteens as a percent of revenues. As we show on this chart, we've reaffirmed our previous targets for free cash flow after dividends over the next two years -- $4 billion to $5 billion in 2007, growing to over $6 billion in 2008.

And we're on track with our plan to repurchase $10 billion of our shares by the end of 2007. We acquired $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter, bringing our 2006 total to $2.7 billion, leaving just a little over $7 billion to repurchase in 2007.

At this point, I want to provide a quick recap of BellSouth's fourth-quarter results, beginning on slide 22. Because of the timing of the merger close, only two days of BellSouth fourth-quarter are in our reported results. But to help you with trending and to see the momentum of the BellSouth operations heading into the merger, we've pulled together a summary look. And this look is based on the accounting and reporting approaches used by BellSouth prior to close. All of the numbers we will mention in this BellSouth review are adjusted, consistent with their prior reporting practice.

BellSouth's adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.68. That is up 28% versus the year-earlier quarter, and their fifth straight quarter of double-digit normalized EPS growth. The drivers of growth were Cingular revenue growth and improved profitability across all operating segments.

Small-business revenues grew 9.1% and large business revenues increased 3%. Consumer revenue was down less than 1% due to discontinuation of DSL regulatory cost recovery fees. Absent this impact, consumer revenue growth would have been slightly positive.

Wholesale revenue declined 4.6% due to declines in UNE-P lines. Revenues in the advertising and publishing segment grew 8.9%, or 5.7% when adjusted for last year's Katrina credits. Electronic media sales growth of more than 40%, as well as stable print revenue, contributed to these results. And BellSouth's advertising and publishing operating margin increased to 48.3%.

BellSouth generated strong cash flow. For the full year 2006, free cash flow was $3.7 billion and cash flow after dividends was $1.6 billion.

Looking specifically at BellSouth's communications group, a couple of highlights were data growth and strong margins; and these are on slide 23. Data revenue was up 5.8%, driven by DSL, emerging data products and wireless transport. DSL lines were up 26%, with 183,000 added in the fourth quarter. DSL revenues were up almost 17%, reflecting increased customers and a positive mix shift to 3-meg and higher speed products.

During the quarter, BellSouth maintained a strong margin at 25.7%, up 380 basis points on a year-over-year basis. About 140 basis points of the year-over-year improvement is attributable to lessened storm activity in 2006. But beyond that, margin expansion was driven by greater scale in broadband, data and long distance services, coupled with year-over-year cost reductions.

A number of you noted the positive turn in BellSouth's access line results in the third quarter, so we wanted to update you with a look at trends extending through fourth quarter on slide 24. At year end, BellSouth had nearly 18.8 million access lines. And as you see on these charts, year-over-year rates of decline improved again in a fourth quarter, looking both at residential as well as total access lines.

Wireless substitution remained level in the quarter, and in the aggregate, BellSouth did not see an acceleration of losses to cable competitors, despite new launches in some key markets. The slowing of line losses in mature BellSouth cable markets offset the impacts in BellSouth markets where cable providers have recently launched.

Small business added 15,000 lines during the quarter, offsetting an equal amount of lines lost in the large business segment. More than 40% of those large business line losses were due to technology migrations to BellSouth data services.

The wholesale line base, which consists primarily of UNE-P lines, declined 146,000. But overall, what you see here is continued improvement in access line trends.

In addition to good 2006 results at BellSouth, we've now been able to complete and validate our merger plans. As Ed pointed out earlier, we've increased our outlook for synergies from the BellSouth merger, and the details are on slide 26. We now expect a net present value of $22 billion, up from the $18 billion we communicated last March. We expect a synergy run rate of $2.6 billion to $3 billion in 2008, growing to a $3.3 billion to $3.8 billion in 2009, with virtually all of those totals coming from expense and capital savings.

Integration costs are heavier up front in 2007, as you would expect. They drop quickly in 2008 and are negligible in 2009. Intangible amortization impacts are up slightly from our view last March. And we expect that the merger will be modestly accretive to 2007 adjusted EPS, primarily due to the impact of opening balance sheet adjustments. Our book effective tax rate for 2007 will be in the mid 30% range, up from 32.4% in 2006. And the increase is driven by the mechanics of consolidating Cingular into our results.

I'd also apply to point out an additional purchase accounting impact that you will notice starting in the first quarter this year. As you know, the revenues and expenses of printed directory advertising books are amortized into the income statement over the life of the book, typically a 12-month life. Purchase accounting rules required us to eliminate the deferred revenues and expenses for all BellSouth directories delivered prior to the close of the merger. This will cause a reduction in reported revenues, expenses and net income worth approximately $0.07 of earnings per share in 2007, but will not affect cash from operations.

We will continue to manage the print business utilizing the amortized information, and those amounts will be reflected in our Directory segment results. Throughout 2007, we will provide investors with what consolidated operating revenue expense and income would have been without this purchase accounting impact, and we will normalize this item in our adjusted earnings per share.

In 2008, the consolidated and segment results will both reflect amortization accounting.

Let me close now with a recap of 2006 results and an updated outlook, which starts on slide 27. Last January, we said we expected to deliver double-digit adjusted EPS growth in each of the three years starting in 2006, and in 2006 adjusted EPS was up 36%. And our outlook for the next two years is unchanged. In 2007 and 2008, we continue to expect double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth. The expected earnings per share growth in 2007 includes $0.02 of pressure from the BellSouth merger conditions, the additional pressure of $0.03 to $0.05 of Lightspeed dilution, and the change in our effective tax rate.

A year ago, we targeted adjusted operating income margins for the full year 2006 in the 15% to 16% range, and we raised that guidance at midyear. We ended with a full-year margin of 18.5%. In 2007, with BellSouth and Cingular results included, we expect to achieve an adjusted operating income margin in the 21% to 23% range. That reflects increased merger synergies and continued growth in Cingular margins.

We said previously we expect to return to revenue growth in 2007 versus pro forma results for 2006, and that is still our outlook. And as we return to growth in enterprise and launch our U-verse services, we expect revenue growth to ramp in 2008 and 2009.

Included in this revenue outlook is a strong Wireless business, where we expect double-digit growth of service revenues in 2007.

Last January, we anticipated merger expense savings of $600 to $700 million in 2006 from the AT&T merger. On the expense side, we realized $1 billion. And looking at 2007 and 2008, we expect synergies from this merger to be at the upper end of the ranges we previously provided.

BellSouth expense synergies of $500 million to $700 million in 2007 will also contribute to earnings in cash flow.

We said we expect capital expenditures for the new AT&T to continue in the mid-teens as a percent of total revenue. And we said a year ago, we expected to deliver $2 billion free cash flow after dividends in 2006. And with the improvement in margins and merger synergies, we beat that, coming in at $2.9 billion.

We continue to be confident in our ability to deliver growing free cash flow after dividends in the years ahead, and we expect $4 billion to $5 billion in 2007, growing to over $6 billion in 2008.

And we plan to deliver on our commitment to repurchase a total of $10 billion of our shares by the end of 2007. When you combine our current dividend with our planned 2007 share repurchase of a little over $7 billion, total cash return to shareowners this year will be $16 billion.

I hope you agree when you look at this outlook in total that it adds up to a strong financial picture for our shareowners, one with excellent growth in earnings and cash flows, but also coupled with opportunities to ramp the top-line revenue growth.

Well, Rich, that concludes our prepared remarks this morning, and at this point, I think we are ready for some questions and answers.

RICH DIETZ: Great. Thanks, Rick. John, we are ready for the question-and-answer session, if you would begin, please.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) John Hodulik.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Rick, first, a quick clarification. Does the double-digit earnings per share growth include the $0.07 impact from the change in the accounting for the directories?

And then second of all, on the Lightspeed dilution, it sounds like it disappears (indiscernible) look to be a very -- relatively small increase versus what we were expecting year-over-year, given the limited rollout in '06 that we saw and our expectations for a more broader 8 million home this past year-end -- number for '07.

Could you dig a little deeper and give us some more color on maybe -- I'm not asking for revenue and expense estimates, but a better understanding of why the dilution is so small versus what we would expect to see or maybe have seen at other companies?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, I think I can help with that, John. First, on the directory purchase accounting adjustment, that adjustment is going to impact -- it's going to reduce revenues, it will reduce expenses and it will reduce income on a reported basis in 2007. And it's purely a non-cash item. It's just the elimination of the deferred revenues and expenses that are on the balance sheet premerger related to books that have been published.

So it will impact our reported results, but we're going to continue to reflect the directory numbers on an amortized basis in our segment results, and we will normalize the EPS impact as part of the BellSouth merger in 2007. So it will not affect our adjusted earnings per share number for 2007, and we continue to expect to grow the adjusted EPS over 2006 at double-digit rates.

With respect to U-verse and Project Lightspeed dilution, I think there's a couple of factors there. One is in 2006, some of the dilution that you see is related to trailing expenses, many of them on the IT side relating to developing the OSS systems to support Lightspeed. So some of the expenses that we incurred in development in '06 go away or are reduced in 2007. What you see in 2007 then reflects an increase from primarily customer acquisition costs as we market and add customers to the Lightspeed platform.

One thing that may be throwing your numbers off a little bit is that, obviously, as we go into 2007 with the merger, we're doing so with a much larger shareowner base, our share base in our EPS calculation. So going from $0.06 to $0.09 to $0.11 to some degree reflects the fact we've got more shares outstanding in 2007.

JOHN HODULIK: That makes sense. And just lastly, when can we expect an update on video strategy for the BellSouth territory?

RICK LINDNER: I don't have an exact timeframe on that, John. I think we're going to evaluate that over the next few months. Our focus right now is going to be on making some adjustments and stabilizing the platform, so that we can really roll the launch in the markets that we've already opened up and add some additional markets to that and begin to ramp that into the former AT&T territory.

At the same time, we'll be working now, but I would expect it will take a few months to work through some details on what our exact plans will be in the BellSouth region.

ED WHITACRE: I could add just a little bit to that. You know, BellSouth has a significant amount of fiber plant with a large portion of the homes on copper loops of less than 5000 feet. So I anticipate a quicker rollout compared to what we did in the old SBC footprint.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, good morning. Rick, could you update us on the pension and healthcare situation on a combined basis now? Obviously, BellSouth helped you out there, presumably good returns in 2006. So what are we looking at in terms of funding status on the EPS impact '07 versus '06?

And also with some of the healthcare developments in states like California and some of the stuff that's been talked about in Washington, people have talked about the automakers really being big beneficiaries of this. Can you help us think about your thoughts on offsetting some of the healthcare costs and getting some benefits from some of this over time? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Simon, good morning. On the pension and OPEB side, first of all, postmerger when you step back and look at the Company in total, I think we are in a very good position in terms of our funding. We are very well funded in pension, over 100% funded in pension. And in total when you combine pension and post-retirement benefit liabilities -- I don't have the exact number this morning, but my expectation is that we are certainly up in the mid 80s or so in terms of funding of our combined pension and OPEB liability. So we're in a very good position there.

The combination of that funding position, good returns in 2006 will not cause us to have any pressure as we did in 2006; we won't have any pressure from an earnings standpoint from pension and OPEB costs in 2007.

With respect to some of the developments going on in California and Washington, I think, depending upon what healthcare policy ends up being in the U.S., it could have some positive benefits to us. We have not reflected that, certainly, in our plans at this point or our forward-looking thinking.

We do continue to try to manage those costs and to do it in a responsible way, while still providing a good benefit to employees. And I think an example of that is the higher-deductible plans that we rolled out for managers at beginning of 2006, which will now begin to take -- over the next year or so -- begin to take our employee base. And we're seeing some very good results from that. It is actually helping to bend the curves for us on medical cost increases and, at the same time, providing from a market standpoint a very good benefit to employees.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Janazzo.

DAVID JANAZZO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. We've noted some selected price increases on the consumer side, for example in California. What is the thought process on elasticity of demand on the part of consumers to small pricing increases?

RICK LINDNER: David, what we've largely been doing from a pricing standpoint is a couple of things. First, we continue to focus our sales efforts on bundling. And one of the things that we've done in December that I think will be significant as we go through 2007 is that we've simplified the number of bundled offers that we're offering in our large team sales.

And that has a couple of impacts. One is -- first of all, those bundles are competitive in the marketplace. But two, it provides a better, easier selling experience for our sales reps, and I think will improve productivity there and increase bundled penetration. And at the same time, as we increase our penetration of bundles, it gives us an opportunity to increase consumer ARPUs.

In other areas where we've had a number of states that we've been granted some pricing flexibility now, based on the competition that is in those markets, that has given us the ability in some areas to put some increases in, frankly, in some access line rates and vertical service rates that in many cases had not been increased for many, many years.

And so I don't think those increases in any way put us out of the market or going to increase churn in that base. And it may help us move more customers to bundled offers, where they are able to get discounts as they bundle a number of services.

DAVID JANAZZO: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: David Barden.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thanks a lot, guys. First question I had -- maybe for Rick -- is just the small, medium business segment does appear to be a source of renewed growth at both AT&T and BellSouth, having gone unnoticed by the cable companies who are trying to at least talk about targeting that segment in the future.

Could you talk about what marketshare you guys believe you now have in that segment and what kind of exposure you have there, and what impact you feel, if any, cable companies may or may not be having?

The second question I would have is just, as you guys are obviously aware, with the delays in IPTV, there has been lingering debate about what a Plan B strategy might be. Obviously, you, Rick, and Ed have both used the word commitment today to the IPTV strategy. Are we to read into that that we should stop speculating on Plan B and focus on Plan A for the rest of '07 into '08? Thanks a lot.

ED WHITACRE: I will take the IPTV question. Our fiber-to-the-node architecture is performing better than we anticipated it would. We're actually seeing better bandwidth than we actually forecast. And we're seeing that better bandwidth at both the short and the long loop links.

Our customer feedback thus far has been very good. In fact, we think it outperforms better than cable in side-by-side comparison. 70% of the customers we've gotten are signing up for the high-end video packages; 70% are taking the higher broadband speeds. So the approach we're taking we believe is the right one.

There has been a lot of talk about does this stuff work. It works and it works well. The network is good. All the delays and some of the difficulties we've had have been related to programming, and we think we are just about to get all those solved. Everything seems to be working well, so this is our Plan A, and Plan A we're sticking with. We like this stuff, it works. And it's the right thing financially.

RICK LINDNER: David, with respect to small, medium business, that has been a good area of growth for us. As we said, we're seeing growth not just in data services, but in voice services as well and access line growth. That is an area of the market that there have been competitors in; there have been competitors for years in that part of the market.

But we've done very well, and I think we've done well because when you think about many of these small, medium business customers, they don't have the time or the resources internally to manage communications and certainly to manage data products. And so they're looking for a company they can partner with that can offer a full range of services. And we are certainly today best positioned to do that across a broad spectrum of services, both in the voice and data side.

The cable competition -- I think cable companies have certainly talked about and will enter this market. Actually, Cox has been in this market for some time. And they are coming at the market in a little different way. They are looking to migrate some of their consumer products predominately and migrate that into some small business customers. I think their focus will be on the smaller customers, kind of 10 lines and under -- probably four to six lines and under, frankly.

And when you look at that it with respect to our business, that total is only in about the mid-single-digits range of our total business. So it's a subsegment of the market we go after in small, medium business.

And I would add to what Ed said with respect to IPTV. As many of you know, I've had the service at home, have had it for several months now. The service is working very well. The work we're doing right now it is really fine-tuning the software platform and how that software platform communicates with the set-top boxes, how it communicates and utilizes the databases for things like scheduling and managing DVR recordings.

And in the last month, we've made a lot of progress there. In fact, we've had a couple of events that were very high profile DVR type events. With the premiere of the "24" TV program, the "American Idol" premiere, all of those were high-demand events from a customer standpoint. And the platform performed very well through those.

So we are making some changes to the software, and I think very shortly, once we have those changes in place, we will be ready to launch and start adding more customers to this platform.

DAVID BARDEN: That is really a helpful stuff. Thanks, Rick. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks for taking the question. Can you talk a bit more about your outlook for enterprise to begin top-line growth in 2008? Specifically, is that outlook driven by mostly contract renegotiations, where declines versus the imbedded base are less than in prior years? Is it growth from usage from current customers and the overall demand environment? Or are you assuming some acceleration in share gain?

If you could -- obviously, it's probably a combination of all three -- but if you could just provide some color there, I think that would be appreciated.

RICK LINDNER: Well, I think you're right -- it is a combination of all of those factors. Demand is very good right now. And we are certainly seeing strong demand in areas like transport. We're seeing very strong demand in IP data services. What has provided -- what has caused a drag on this part of the business, if you will, are pricing declines, primarily -- or to a large degree in long distance voice.

And the point-of-sale pricing that we see -- it continues to be a very competitive environment. But the point-of-sale declines in the last several quarters have been pretty small -- 1% or less in each of the last few quarters. And as contracts are renewing, the gap between our average price in our contracts -- in our portfolio of contracts and the point-of-sale price has been reducing. So we see that continuing, which will reduce over time the drag on revenues from voice service.

But what will really drive it is the continued growth in IP services in areas that we talked about -- VPN services, managed Internet services, hosting services. We also have some opportunities, I think, to grow incrementally internationally.

So again, it's a gradual process because we do have some embedded pricing in our existing contracts that are higher than the current market, and so we've got to work through that. That is why it's more of a gradual process. We're very encouraged by the trends we're seeing. As we showed you in the presentation, every quarter as been improving in terms of those trends.

TOM SEITZ: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Thanks, guys. Just a couple of things. First, on the revised synergies. You've identified, obviously, that 2007 I guess is mostly non-cash. But when you go in towards 2008, 2009, maybe you can identify what you've seen there to improve the guidance. Is it changes in the view on operations or is it stability, either at BellSouth or continued stability at AT&T?

And secondly on Lightspeed, you've got operational dilution of going from roughly 141 million last year to what I think could, be based on your numbers here, about 625 million in the current year. But it's still, I think fairly, amorphous for us; we don't really have an idea as far as subscriber targets, revenue or expense. -- well, we've got expense, but no revenue or subscriber targets or market targets. Maybe putting some parameters around that.

And then maybe connected to that is just commentary on your announced free TV offer in the San Antonio market and the strategic rationale for that. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Those were a lot of questions, Mike. We will try to tackle those, we will do the best we can. Going back to the first one, I think the first one had to do with expected improvement in synergies. Let me just talk about primarily the -- well, let me talk about both the AT&T and BellSouth mergers.

In the AT&T merger, I think we are more confident and comfortable with the ranges that we've originally provided; in fact, we think we will be at the upper end of those ranges. We have some areas where we've actually exceeded our expectations. But for the most part, what we have been able to do is achieve the synergies sooner, and I think that's what you've seen in 2007 -- or 2006 rather.

As we get into the BellSouth merger and firmed up our merger plans, we found some areas, both with respect to operating expenses and capital, where we think we have more opportunities. On the operating expense side, we're expecting about the same level of consolidation in force. The numbers there are a little bit higher, but for the most part, we're picking up what we believe will be a couple -- eventually 200 -- $200 million to $300 million per year in additional expense savings. A lot of that is through consolidating operations and consolidating external spend and getting better prices for those products and services that we buy.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Is there still -- Rick, I'm sorry -- an expectation that roughly 20% of that headcount is still Cingular related? I think that was the original number.

RICK LINDNER: Yes, I think that is fair. It's still in the 20% to 25% range.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay.

RICK LINDNER: And then secondly where we did increase synergy expectations has been on -- as well on capital expenditures. And that is -- frankly, half of that in CapEx is related to just doing a review of all of our purchase contracts and all of our major venture contracts. And as we combine the spend and as we move to the best pricing embedded in those contracts, we believe there is $300 million to $400 million a year in CapEx benefit over time.

And then we also have CapEx savings that are largely coming out of IT, from consolidating operations, consolidating data centers, moving to common platforms. So I think those are the major areas.

MIKE MCCORMACK: That is helpful.

RICK LINDNER: We have not -- on Lightspeed and U-verse, we've not provided guidance on customers at this point. We want to get the products into the market, open up the channels. And I think what we're going to find is that when we do that, we are going to get some nice early penetration gains. But I think it's premature to put numbers out there yet. Focus right now is on making sure that the platform's working well and those customers we add have a great experience.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Is that something you plan to just continue to report, Rick, though, as far as sub counts go or markets go? I guess that will be qualitative discussion on the calls.

RICK LINDNER: Yes. As we start to really ramp these markets and put advertising and marketing behind it, you will see our customer counts, both in terms of high-speed data as well as video related to U-verse.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay.

RICK LINDNER: And just a quick comment on the -- we did put an offer out. It's not universal; we've got it in a handful of markets. And it revolves around a 12-month free dish offer; it's at the low-end package. And in order to get that offer, customers have to bundle voice and data and long-distance service with that.

So when we look at that, plus the opportunity in many cases to upsell the customer to a higher video package, this ends up being a reasonable offer for us financially. And we are targeting it in markets where we are seeing more aggressive cable competition or new launches from cable.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Sorry for the long question, Rick.

RICK LINDNER: That's okay.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Couple questions. Just first on Wireless. Cingular obviously is performing very well. You talked about Wireless being sort of the core of the strategy, and Ed, you mentioned -- two out of your five key priorities were tied into the Wireless business. I'm just wondering, as we think sort of conceptually about this, you've got Wireless and Enterprise, which are national franchises. But consumer wireline, broadband and video strategies are all sort of regional -- target market is about half of the U.S.

If you think long term about the business and sort of the future bundling opportunities of Wireless, does it make sense to think longer-term about extending either the video or the broadband footprint to better complement the wireless footprint?

And maybe second question is just for Rick. On the free cash flow guidance, it does seem about a bit conservative. You sort of kept the guidance the same, despite increasing synergy guidance for BellSouth and really pointing to the higher end of the range for the legacy AT&T business. So just would have seemed like it would have moved up free cash flow guidance. I'm just wondering if you can offer some comments there. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Let me address the cash flow issue first. First of all, we've got a fairly good-sized range there. That range on cash flow was the same range that we had projected prior to announcing the BellSouth acquisition. And so as you put BellSouth on top of that, in 2007 in particular, you have to remember that we're going to have a pretty heavy cash outflow in terms of integration costs in 2007.

We've got all of the rebranding to occur in 2007 across both BellSouth and Cingular. Plus there are a lot of costs that due to the timing, Jason, of the close that are costs related to the legal costs, banker fees -- all the costs related to actually doing the transaction will be accrued either in expense at BellSouth in their 2006 results or be on the beginning balance sheet for 2007. But all of that cash comes out in 2007.

So total integration costs 2007 are, on a cash basis, over $2 billion. So that has an impact. And then of course, with the dividend increase we did in December, which was actually higher than we would have planned a year ago, that dividend increase, now with the additional shares outstanding, takes our dividends well into the upper $8 billion a year range.

So you put all of those things together, I think in answer to your question, is it possible could we do better than the guidance? Sure, that is possible. We are going to try to do that, we hope to do that. But I'd say the integration costs, some higher cash taxes in '07 and higher dividends, all of those are impacting that range for 2007. Ed, do you want to --?

ED WHITACRE: Yes, Jason, you talked about Wireless and Enterprise being national franchises, and that is right. You made the point of consumer more of a regional business, and how does that connect that to video and what makes sense.

You know, we're the number one wireless business now; we are the global leader in enterprise. There's always going to be opportunities out there, but we have very good connections with small and medium firms. And what you say certainly makes sense and is probably true, but we're about executing right now and we will see what comes along.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thanks for the color.

RICH DIETZ: John, due to time constraints, this next question will have to be our last question.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Making it in under the wire, thank you. A quick question for Rick. On the directory, the incremental dilution or however you want to classify it, is that a one-time item that's going to show up in the first quarter, or are we going to see that hit each quarter throughout '07?

And then second, on the CapEx, it looks like we are -- midpoint, 15% CapEx to revs. It's about $1 billion or so down year-on-year. And I'm wondering if you can give us an idea of where are some of those ups and downs. I have a sense that Cingular probably is down $1 billion, $1 billion plus. Is that where most of the sequential change is? Or if you could just give us an idea of where some of that spending might be up and down? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Chris. On the directory issue, that is something -- because those directories are amortized over 12 months, you will actually see it throughout the year. It will be more front-end loaded because as we go through the year, the amortization from some of the directories -- say, the directories that were issued in the first half of last year by BellSouth -- that amortization will start to fall off. So it will reduce as we go through each quarter, but you will see it throughout 2007.

And again, we will show you the numbers in our segment without that purchase accounting adjustment, and we will normalize the impact in our adjusted margins and in our adjusted EPS.

On the CapEx side, we're actually seeing -- we will see a pretty substantial decrease in Wireless CapEx this year. And let me back up on that for a minute. I think your numbers are pretty much on target. If you put the three companies together in 2006, total CapEx would be in the upper $18 billion range. If you take out -- there was a couple hundred million or so of CapEx related to some hurricane restoration at BellSouth. If you take that out, you are in the $18.6 billion kind of range for 2006.

Our expectation for 2007 is that we will be at or below that level, which would put us, again, kind of right in the midteens as a percent of revenues. But underneath that, pretty significant decline in Wireless CapEx. In fact, Wireless CapEx will move into the lower double-digit range as a percent of their revenues. And that is just a function of their integration buildout in California and most of their buildout costs related to UMTS being behind us.

They now have -- and you heard Stan talk about this yesterday -- they now have the ability --they've got this converged network at the local level, pretty dense cell site configuration and a very good spectrum position. That gives you the ability to ride that, if you will, as you put new customers and new traffic on the network, and maintain a lower CapEx level.

On the Wireline side, you're going to see some increases this year, and that is related to rolling out and ramping up our build on Project Lightspeed, and in general driving fiber deeper into our network.

And then on top of that. we're making some investments in our AT&T national networks and we will make some investments targeted and selectively in international, in areas like hosting services, building some data centers. You've seen some of our announcements there already. So we will make some incremental investments there that we think will drive revenue growth for us in 2007 and beyond.

But that is a pretty good picture, I think. You've got a pretty good view of CapEx.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks, Rick. Just one clarification. The CapEx budget includes the integration spending that you are doing, right? That would be capitalized?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, it includes integration.

CHRIS LARSEN: And so maybe on a run rate basis, it is a little bit lower than that, as we get into '08, '09?

RICK LINDNER: Yes, I think that is fair. As you start to have -- we have some integration capital in '07 and then we'll have some CapEx synergies as we go into '08 and '09. But obviously, a big driver there as we get into '08 and '09 is what are seeing in terms of demand, how does that drive CapEx, and what other opportunities do we see in order to invest in the business and start to ramp up that top-line growth. So it will be a balance there as we go into '08 and '09.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks a lot.

RICH DIETZ: Before we close, Ed Whitacre has some closing comments for us.

ED WHITACRE: Thanks to all of you for being on the call with us today. When I look at how we closed 2006 and how we're positioned for the year ahead, there are a number of things that are very encouraging. We're ahead of plan on merger savings and we raised our estimates for BellSouth synergies. Wireless growth has accelerated and we continue to expand Wireless margins. Regional business trends are solid. Enterprise is on an upward trajectory. And we expect to return to overall revenue growth this year.

As a result of all this, we have a strong growth outlook for both EPS and cash flow, which we have reaffirmed today. We are confident in our ability to deliver on the targets we've laid out for you today, and we're very excited about the year ahead. The new AT&T is a company with great assets. We've demonstrated our commitment to strong and consistent execution. And most important, we're confident we have a business that over the next few years will be able to generate value, not only through productivity improvements, but also through top-line growth.

Again, we look forward to a great 2007. Thank you for joining us, and thank you for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Thanks, Ed, and thanks to all of you for joining our call. John, this concludes our earnings call this morning.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070201e31p000su
  


 HD
 Q3  2006  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,919 words
   PD
23 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the AT&T third quarter earnings release for 2006. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question and answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations for AT&T. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

RICH DIETZ, SVP, IR, AT&T: Great, thank you, Dawn, and good morning to everyone and welcome to AT&T's third quarter earnings call. It's great to have you with us this morning. I am Rich Dietz, Head of Investor Relations for AT&T. Rick Lindner, our Chief Financial Officer, is on the call with me to cover our results, and then as Dawn indicated, we will have a Q&A session at the end of our prepared comments.

   TD
Our release, investor briefing and supplementary information were issued earlier today. They are available on the investor relations page of the AT&T web site. The presentation slides we will speak on this call are also available on that same web page; that's AT&T.com/investor.relations.

Before we get started, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement, which is on slide 3. Information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained at AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update or revise statements contained in these presentations based on new information or otherwise. This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures and the GAAP financial measures are also available on our web site.

Okay, with that as background, let me now cover our third quarter EPS comparisons, which is on slide 4. In the third quarter of 2006, our adjusted EPS was $0.63. The math is in the first column of this slide. Starting at the top and working down, reported EPS was $0.56. We add back $0.05 of Cingular merger integration and intangible amortization costs. We also add back $0.02 of merger-related costs at AT&T, and the result is an adjusted EPS of $0.63.

A couple of things to point out and note regarding EPS adjustments this quarter. First, as we've pointed out in past quarters, a very high percentage of the adjustments are non-cash. And second, you will note that AT&T merger-related costs were lower this quarter than in the past two quarters. This is due to a $246 million expense reduction which came from a change in policy regarding the timing for earning vacation days. This reduction affects reported results, but since it is a merger-related item, it does not affect our adjusted results. This vacation policy change has a remaining expense benefit of approximately $80 million that will be recognized in the fourth quarter of this year.

The EPS walk-down for the year-ago quarter is in the right-hand column. In the third quarter of 2005, reported EPS was $0.38. We had $0.08 of Cingular merger-related costs, we also had $0.01 for Cingular hurricane-related costs, and that resulted in an adjusted EPS of $0.47.

So, our reported EPS in the third quarter this year was $0.56, up 47% versus the year-earlier quarter. And, our adjusted EPS was $0.63, and that's up 34% versus comparable results in the third quarter a year ago. Included in these results, but not adjusted for, is a reduction in operating expense of approximately $100 million associated with opening balance valuations from the AT&T Corp. merger. Approximately 70 million of the reduction was for prior periods to the third quarter.

Okay, with that, I will now turn it over to Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, CFO, AT&T: Thanks, Rich, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the slides, I'd like to make a couple of comments this morning about the quarter and about the overall trajectory of the business.

You know, looking back at the beginning of the year and the analyst meeting we held in January, I think we started 2006 with a set of very sound plans and we started with a resolve this year to do a few key things. The first was to get a great start on integrating the former AT&T operations, and the second was to ramp up performance at Cingular; and third, we set the target of delivering double-digit adjusted EPS in each of the next three years starting this year in 2006.

Now that we have three quarters of results behind us, I think it's clear we have delivered what we said we would do and more in all of these areas. We're hitting and exceeding our targets, we have ramped up our performance every quarter and we had a very strong third quarter. In the third quarter, margins expanded in both Wireless and Wireline EPS growth was strong, and I think we have solid momentum as we look ahead to 2007.

One of the things ahead of us, obviously, is the BellSouth merger, and as you know, the FCC has scheduled a November 3rd meeting to vote on the merger. I believe the operational progress we have made this year is a great foundation, and frankly, I think the timing is right for the BellSouth and Cingular integration process, which we look forward to getting started in the weeks ahead.

Also looking ahead, I think we continue to have substantial opportunities across our business, and BellSouth will add to that potential. And as we execute against those opportunities, we're also returning value through shareowners through a strong dividend and our stock buyback program, which we got underway in earnest at the end of July. So from my perspective, I think we have great assets, we're executing well against those assets and it's an exciting time and I think a very promising time for AT&T.

So with that as a perspective, let's get into the quarter in more detail. Slide six shows you our third-quarter highlights and they start with Wireless. Cingular grew ARPU, kept churn low, completed their nationwide GSM network integration, which is a key operational milestone, and drove margins up sequentially by 300 basis points. I think there's no other way to say it -- just terrific progress at Cingular.

We also did very well in business markets. We grew regional business revenues in the strong mid-single-digit range, as we have over the past several quarters now, but I think you even see in this quarter some acceleration of that growth. Enterprise revenues declined sequentially by less than 1% for the second straight quarter, and the trends there continue to be encouraging.

In terms of the AT&T merger integration, we're clearly ahead of our original schedule. Through the third quarter, we've realized approximately $650 million in operating expense savings. And with progress in all of these areas, we're delivering strong margin expansion and cash flow. Consolidated margins, which as you know don't include Wireless, were 19.5% on an adjusted basis, up 50 basis points from last quarter, and cash from operating activities is up 26% year to date.

What I'd like to do now is drill down and look at some of these areas in more detail, starting with a look at our EPS trends, which are on slide 7. As Rich mentioned, before merger-related costs, third quarter EPS was $0.63. This is our sixth straight quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth in adjusted EPS, and also our sixth consecutive quarter of sequential growth. The EPS growth drivers are very straightforward. First, it's Wireless where contributions have ramped up substantially and there's more upside ahead. The second driver is Wireline where the AT&T merger integration, plus some good operational progress, have driven margin expansion. And in addition, we're starting to see progress in Wireline revenue trends, particularly on the business side.

Cingular had their own call last Thursday, so I'm not going to spend a lot of time on their results, but there are a few key points I would like to emphasize, starting on slide 8. The first is simply that Wireless customer growth continues to be very strong. Cingular has led the industry for several quarters now in gross add flow share and gross adds in the third quarter were 4.6 million; that's up from 4.4 million in both the preceding and year-ago third quarter.

The key for us, given the size of our customer base, obviously, is churn, and the great news is, churn has come down and stayed low despite the fact that churn's typically higher in the third quarter. In addition, as you know, we made some pricing changes that impacted the remaining customers on our TDMA network and we're sunsetting some of the former AT&T Wireless prepaid plans. Despite all of this, postpaid churn was 1.5% and total churn, including prepaid and resale, was 1.8%, both down 50 basis points year-over-year.

The subscriber mix has also improved. Retail subscribers represented 87% of Cingular's net adds in the third quarter, up from 75% in the preceding quarter and 74% a year ago. We also had postpaid retail net subscriber adds of 928,000 in the quarter, the third straight quarter of at least 900,000 net adds. So as I said, strong volumes, 1.4 million total net adds in the quarter, 6.4 million over the last year, and more than 11.5 million since the Cingular-AT&T Wireless merger. That subscriber growth, plus robust demand for Data services, have strengthened our Wireless revenue growth, and the highlights are on slide 9. At the beginning of the year, we said we expected Cingular to deliver upper-single-digit revenue growth, and that's what they have done. In the third quarter, total revenues were up 9.2% to $9.6 billion and service revenues were up a strong 12.2% to $8.7 billion. Cingular's retail ARPU and service ARPU both posted growth this quarter, up sequentially and year-over-year. Voice revenues are beginning to stabilize, and then Data growth on top of that continues to be very strong. In fact, Data ARPU was up 46% to $6.32; that is a $0.55 increase from last quarter, and Data ARPU for postpaids now about $7.25. This was Cingular's third consecutive quarterly increase in Data ARPU of more than $0.50, and on top of that, I think there's substantial upside potential for Data as our 3G network deployment expands further and usage grows. So Cingular is well positioned to be a long-term leader in Wireless Data.

I think the most encouraging and most promising part of the Wireless results this quarter was margin expansion, and that's on slide 10. Third-quarter margins before merger costs were 35.6%, up 400 basis points year-over-year, but even more impressively, sequentially up 300 basis points. On its call last week, Cingular referred to this as a watershed quarter in the sense that a number of initiatives have started to come to fruition and their hard work and operational progress are starting to show up clearly in the financial results. I would echo those comments and at that, not only did Cingular deliver good margin expansion in the third quarter, there's more to come.

In the first week of October, Cingular's GSM network conversion was completed and Cingular has rationalized distribution and taken costs out of IT and customer care. The GSM billing conversion is complete, and that will allow better processes with lower cost and TDMA billing system conversions and sunset are still ahead. The TDMA network will be turned down and sunset in early 2008, and as we continue to make progress on the T-Mobile joint venture [unwind], costs are coming down as Cingular migrates traffic onto its own network.

So the third quarter was a big step forward in terms of margin expansion, and there's more progress to come.

In summary in Wireless, merger synergies are flowing to the bottom line, revenue growth is accelerated, subscriber growth remains strong and ARPU has stabilized. And with all of these, we see considerable upside potential in the quarters ahead in wireless.

Now while we have improved profitability in Wireless, we've also been on a path of margin expansion in our Wireline and Consolidated operations as shown on slide 11. As most of you know, because of joint venture accounting requirements, Cingular's results are not reflected in these consolidated margins, so this essentially shows Wireline plus Directory and other. Adjusted operating income margin in the third quarter was 19.5%, up 50 basis points versus the year-ago third quarter and 50 basis points sequentially, and as you see on this chart, considerably above where we were early this year. In fact, we have now had six consecutive quarters of year-over-year improvement in adjusted consolidated margins. The drivers of this margin improvement are merger synergies and the separate operational initiatives we have underway to streamline and remove costs. Consolidated operating expenses before merger costs were down $188 million sequentially, and that follows a $264 million sequential decline the quarter before that. Based on these year-to-date results, we now expect a full year adjusted margin in the mid-18% range. And of course, that's AT&T standalone without effects from the BellSouth merger being factored in.

The key to margin expansion for us has been the execution of our AT&T merger initiatives, and slide 12 provides an update. Last quarter, we increased our outlook for merger expense synergies that we expected to realize in 2006 to a range of $700 million to $900 million. We now expect to be at or slightly above the high end of that range. Through September, we have realized $650 million in expense savings. In early October, we completed the migration of former SBC mass-market long distance traffic to AT&T networks ahead of schedule, and our operational progress has allowed us to keep ahead of schedule on merger force targets as well. Total company force was down 3600 in the quarter, roughly the same as in the preceding quarter, and year-to-date, force is down about 10,500. We're still early in terms of realizing cost synergies. Much of the upside potential we identified in this merger is still in front of us, but so far, execution has been solid and most functions are on or ahead of schedule.

Let me turn now away from costs and look at revenue trends in the Wireline business, starting on slide 13. This is the same slide we have provided the past two quarters and it tracks Wireline revenues by customer category. And of course, it includes the combined operations of the former SBC and AT&T business units, so the growth rates shown here are on a pro forma basis.

Starting at the top, regional business revenues grew 6.6%. That's up from 5.1% growth last quarter and consistent with mid-single-digit growth rates in this space that we've seen for several quarters. Our regional consumer revenues grew 0.7% with bundling and broadband offsetting competitive impacts. And combined, regional business and regional consumer revenues totaled $5.8 billion and had a combined third-quarter growth of 2.7%, in line with last quarter.

Enterprise revenues totaled $4.4 billion with a year-over-year decline of 5.1%. This compares with a 7.3% decline in the second quarter and we're seeing clear improvement in Enterprise growth rates, and later in this discussion, we'll cover that improvement in greater detail. Sequentially, Enterprise revenues declined just 0.5%, and that's two consecutive quarters of sequential declines of less than 1%; that's an encouraging sign.

Next is Wholesale, and Wholesale results largely reflected this quarter some impacts from industry consolidation. As we expected, carriers are moving traffic onto their own networks, parallel to the moves we have made in our own business, and that affects year-over-year comparisons. Also shown on the bottom of this slide are the former AT&T national mass-market customers. This category represents about 9% of our Wireline revenues, but about 60% of our year-over-year decline in revenue. We continue to be confident in the outlook for a return to overall revenue growth following the BellSouth transaction in 2007, and that's versus pro forma results for 2006.

Now let's take a quick look at some of these customer categories and we'll start with regional business on slide 14. As you know, this has been an area of strength for us for several quarters and the trends we're seeing continue to be solid. In fact, when you look at just the small and medium business space in our regional business category, year-over-year revenue growth this quarter was in the low-double-digit range.

In addition to good overall growth, what stands out is the fact that we're seeing good growth in both Voice and Data. Data revenues grow 12% with growth in transport and more than 20% growth in IP data, led by strength in managed Internet services, virtual private networking and DSL. Data makes up about 30% of the total revenues in the regional business category.

On the Voice side, access lines increased modestly in the quarter as they have over the past several quarters. Churn continues to be low and ARPU is stable. One of the keys for this group of customers is that we're selling products now from the former AT&T Enterprise portfolio, and customers like the network reliability, security and other services we're now able to provide. So bottom line, another quarter of solid performance in regional business.

Slide 15 shows our regional consumer trends, and as we drive growth and compete through bundling, the key drivers for the Consumer business are Consumer revenue connections. And total connections -- that's retail access lines, plus high-speed data, plus video -- were up 376,000 over the past year. Primary access lines trends abated somewhat from the seasonally higher disconnects in the second quarter. Total high-speed Internet net adds, which includes DSL, U-verse high-speed Internet access and satellite broadband, were 380,000, of which about 90% are consumer. These net adds are up from the second quarter, but less than our normal third quarter pace. Gross sales in the quarter were strong; in fact, the best that we have had in four quarters, but we had some year-ago promotions, plus a number of six-month contracts, all expiring in the same quarter, and those contract expirations caused an increase in our churn for the quarter. We now have 8.2 million total high-speed Internet connections, up 1.7 million, or 26% year-over-year. Our broadband penetration of primary lines is now above 31%, and in our West region, it's over 35%.

More of our customers are opting for higher speeds. To date, 42% of our consumer DSL base subscribe to higher-speed service, and that's up from 22% just a year ago.

In early October, we simplified our pricing for DSL and added a new speed tier to our lineup and we expect that the convenience of simple, flat-rate pricing with no contract term, plus the added speed tier choice, will stimulate demand, as well as enhance customer retention. In addition, we're expanding the size of our target market by increasing the DSL footprint at a rate of about 200,000 livings units per month.

We'll also take the concept of simplified pricing our voice packages. In the next couple of months, we plan to roll out a simplified pricing structure that will be even easier to understand, more convenient for customers, and frankly, easier to sell in our consumer sales channels. We see a lot of opportunity in the regional consumer space and as we innovate with more bundles, including wireless, as we increase broadband penetration and speeds, and as we launch new video products.

Let me give you now a quick update on our next-generation video and integrated services deployment, which we market under the AT&T U-verse name on slide 16. As you know, we've begun our initial expansion in San Antonio, and by design, we're ramping the project in a measured but, we have made good progress this quarter on a number of fronts. The service is working well, customer response has been positive, and our marketing approach is producing good results with deployment on track. At the end of the third quarter, living units passed was at 1.3 million. We expect to reach 2.4 million by year end with aggressive scaling in 2007.

As I said, customers like the service. In fact, I have the service in my own home, and I can tell you that picture quality is excellent, features and the user interface I think beat cable in side-by-side tests. Word-of-mouth in the San Antonio community is good and 85% of customers receiving AT&T U-verse services are taking higher end video packages.

In late June, AT&T started the commercial launch of U-verse services in San Antonio, and the initial response has been strong with customer totals at approximately 3000, or about 10% of the penetration of homes that we have marketed to. We're doing some innovative things in terms of marketing, including live demos available at a Cingular store, and that's proving to be effective. Our next U-verse market will be Houston, which we plan to launch in late November. We currently have a trial going on in Houston homes, which includes HDTV. The picture quality is great and we're pleased with the overall results, and we'll launch that service as I said in late November, and at the same time, we look forward to launching then HDTV in the San Antonio marketplace. After that, we will launch about 15 markets by year end. All of these markets will HDTV at launch. And as we scale, we'll concentrate on delivering a quality customer experience, so you can expect we'll follow the approach we've taken in San Antonio, which is to be deliberate and focused as we build to a more aggressive ramp.

Last quarter, we gave you some guidance on 2006 Lightspeed dilution and said that it would be in the $0.05 to $0.07 range. That's still a good number for 2006, but that dilution, as you know, is during a ramp-up phase, and as we move into 2007, we will have a full year of deployment, so we'll expect overall dilution to increase somewhat. Although I would tell you that that expectation has been built into our guidance as we look forward into next year.

Let me turn now to Enterprise on slide 17 where our results continue to demonstrate progress towards stabilization in revenue trends. For the second consecutive quarter, sequential decline in Enterprise revenues was less than 1%. And in addition, we're seeing improvements in the year-over-year growth rates. In the second quarter of 2005, the former AT&T sold a payphone business that had been included in this category. Excluding those revenues from the year-ago results and adjusting for some nonrecurring CPE revenue, the year-over-year growth rates have improved from a decline of 6.3% in the first quarter to 5.9% in the second quarter and now to a decline of just 4.4% in third quarter. So however you look at the trends in the Enterprise space, the results are improving.

Enterprise Data revenues, which make up about half of the category, grew 1.5% year-over-year. We had sequential and year-over-year growth in both Enterprise Data transport and IP-based Data revenues. Volumes continue to be strong in Transport, and Enterprise IP services, which include Virtual Private Networks, Managed Internet Services and Hosting, had mid-teen percentage growth. And growth in these services is more than offsetting the decline in our traditional frame (indiscernible) products.

Overall in Enterprise, we're seeing a continuation of the trends that you saw in the second quarter. Demand continues to be solid. Voice trends have improved with long distance minutes about flat for the last three quarters. Data Transport volumes are strong. Technology migration in this space is a continuing process with customers moving from packet-based service to IP data, but we're capturing this migration with a strong portfolio of services.

And the pricing environment has not changed substantially with slowing declines in competitive point-of-sale pricing. The return to Enterprise revenue growth is a gradual process, but with our network and product sets, we're confident we'll do well in this segment and we continue to expect to achieve revenue growth as we exit 2008.

As you may have seen last Friday, we completed the acquisition of USinternetworking. USI is leader in managed enterprise software solutions and this is a key step for us in that it expands what we can deliver for enterprise customers as it pairs up USI's software and e-business management services with our portfolio of Enterprise Hosting and Managed Services.

The Wireline category where you did see a change in trend this quarter was Wholesale, which is on slide 18. Looking at the Wholesale market, underlying trends are consistent with recent quarters, volumes are strong, which are offsetting point-of-sale pricing pressures. But, the new factor this quarter, which was expected but which nevertheless does impact growth rates, is simply industry consolidation as consolidated carriers move their traffic onto their own networks. We have done that, moving traffic from the WilTel network to the AT&T network. Other carriers are also moving wholesale traffic from our network to their own, as you would expect. Year-over-year revenue is down approximately $200 million and nearly half of that decline is due to the industry consolidation we just covered. We expect the majority of this movement to be completed in the first half of 2007, and at that point, we expect revenue trends will level off and be fairly flat through 2008.

Before concluding Wireline, let me comment just briefly on revenues from a product perspective, specifically Data revenues, and the highlights are on slide 19. In the third quarter, total Data revenues grew 2.8%, the same as in the quarter before. 84% of our Data revenues come from Transport and IP, both of which are growing. Data transport revenues were up 1.2%, packet data declined 10.1%, reflecting migration from frame relay to EVPN and managed Internet services, which are part of the IP data category, and partly due to this migration and also due to strong demand, IP data continued its double-digit growth, up 12.5%. About three-quarters of Data revenues are retail -- business and consumer -- and in the third quarter, retail data revenues grew 4.7%.

I also want to comment briefly this morning on a business that I think distinguishes AT&T from its peers, and that's our directory business. Our recent trends are on slide 20. As you know, we have substantial scale in traditional print directories, producing more than 750 yellow page titles and more than 110 million copies annually, and those numbers would grow following the BellSouth transaction. And currently through a joint venture with BellSouth, we're also a leader in Internet Yellow Pages, with the leading brand in that space, yellowpages.com. Following the BellSouth merger, AT&T will have 100% ownership of this business.

We like the directory business for a number of reasons. First, as you can see on the chart on this page, it has stable revenues, strong margins and it's a big cash generator with virtually no capital required. We like this business strategically. It's a great fit with our traditional communications space, especially when you consider our strength in small and medium business. And as we move to an integrated IP platform, yellowpages.com will provide local search capabilities across all of our communications and entertainment platforms, from the PC to the TV through U-verse and through wireless. Yellowpages.com this year will have more than 1 billion local searches, and that's a 64% year-over-year growth versus 2005.

In addition, the local directory sales force will have opportunities going forward to generate additional advertising revenues by leveraging the integrated platform and selling advertising through yellowpages.com, which will then reach through to our U-verse and wireless customer bases.

Let me walk you through our cash generation for the quarter and year-to-date. Cash from operations has grown this year, despite integration costs from the AT&T merger, and we are solidly on track deliver on our full-year target of mid-$2 billion and free cash flow after dividends, and those details are on slide 21. Cash from operations tends to be a bit lumpy quarter-to-quarter, typically reflecting the timing of cash tax payments throughout the year, and that was the case this quarter. But that said, cash from operations is up 26% year-over-year, and through the third quarter, cash from operations was $10.6 billion, capital expenses were $6.2 billion and free cash flow after dividends was nearly $1 billion.

As you see on this chart, we also made good progress on our share repurchase program in the third quarter. Because of the timing of share owner votes for the BellSouth transaction, we weren't able to fully activate the buyback until the last week of July, so the $1.2 billion in repurchases for the quarter represent roughly two months of activity and we're firmly on track with the share repurchase range target range of $2 to $3 billion that we outlined for you last quarter with a total of $10 billion in repurchases by the end of next year. We will revisit all of our guidance after the BellSouth transaction closes and we have had some time to work through business plans for 2007, but we continue to be confident in the view we outlined for you earlier this year, which expects strong and growing free cash flow after dividends in the years ahead.

And speaking of that guidance, our margins and our operational progress in both Wireless and Wireline add to the confidence and the guidance that we've provided to you.

And by way of closing, let me recap that outlook on slide 22. We continue to expect to deliver double-digit adjusted EPS growth in each of the next three years, starting in 2006, and we now expect full-year 2006 adjusted operating margin to be in the mid-18% range. Following the BellSouth merger, we continue to expect a return to overall revenue growth in 2007 on a pro forma basis, and our opportunity to reduce costs continues to be unmatched in the industry. When you add together the costs energies from each of the mergers, AT&T Wireless, AT&T and BellSouth, plus add in our operational initiatives, we expect to realize $9 billion of annual savings by 2008. As we have said before, we expect to generate strong and growing free cash flow after dividends in the mid-$2 billion range this year, $4 billion or more next year and more than $6 billion starting in 2008, and we will return substantial amounts of that cash to share owners through our strong dividend and through our expanded share repurchase program with $10 billion of repurchases by the end of next year.

So let me close with one comment. In our call last quarter, I emphasized to you that the management team was confident about achieving the guidance we provided, and the best way to validate our belief with you was to deliver consistent results each and every quarter. I think our third quarter results provide another solid set of data points and add to our confidence, and hopefully to yours as well, and we look forward to building on these results going forward.

So with that, I will turn back to Rich for our Q&A session. Rich?

RICH DIETZ: Thank you very much, Rick. Dawn, if you would begin the Q&A session, we're now ready to take our first question.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Rick, you talked about deployment of free cash flow, and the strong earnings growth brings us to the dividend payout ratio. It has obviously dropped significantly. You have only had a sort of low-single-digit dividend increase the last couple of years. As we approach the November -- or the December Board decision, can you think about how we should be considering dividend policy in the light of the free cash flow and the earnings momentum that you're showing? Thanks,

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Simon, good morning. Well, I think you've said it appropriately. The combination of the earnings growth that we're seeing, combined with the projections and prospects for growing free cash flow after dividends, gives us a lot of flexibility going forward. In terms of how we'll use that cash, first of all, we remain committed to the share repurchase program that we outlined for you at the time we announced the BellSouth transaction. So we will complete that in 2007.

I think then going forward, the combination of the earnings growth and the cash available gives us more flexibility to continue to return cash to share owners. And as we look at the market with where our stock price is, where our dividend yield is, I think it certainly points us toward continued -- being able to support continued dividend growth and moving in a direction more towards dividend growth as we go forward. So, obviously, we have not met with the Board or made any decisions relative to our next dividend increase, but we'll be doing that in the months coming up.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just trying to square some of the comments you made regarding margin guidance, you kept the mid-18% range for '06 year, but you moved up the synergies to over the $900 million mark. So it looks like you're going to do $250 million-plus in terms of annualized synergies in the fourth quarter. You're at 18.5% year-to-date, margin is already leaving the year -- the quarter at 19.6. Do you expect -- is it that you expect margins to come down substantially in the fourth quarter, or are you guys just sort of being conservative at this point?

Secondly, a related question, that the $0.05 to $0.07 in terms of Lightspeed dilution, how much have you realized thus far year-to-date, maybe just thinking that you have a big pop in the fourth quarter as you roll out these 15 markets?

And then thirdly, and I will stop there, you raised the guidance for this year. You have $1.6 million to $1.9 million guidance for '07 in terms of the AT&T deal. Does that go up proportionately as well? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Okay, John, let me try to take those in order. First of all, in terms of the margin guidance, I think you're right -- we're currently year-to-date on an adjusted basis in the mid-18s. Seasonally, the fourth quarter tends to be lower for us in terms of margins for a variety of factors, including the fact that there are -- tend to be with the holidays less business days, so you see usage-sensitive services, like long distance, come down in the fourth quarter.

In addition, in this fourth quarter, we will see I think some growth in expenses related to Lightspeed. Of the $0.05 to $0.07, we have incurred through the first nine months about -- right at about $0.04 of that. So we'll see somewhat of a jump in the fourth quarter. And I think the other thing related to margins as we've talked about on the call and as we've talked about in our press release, the margins in the third quarter did have some impact that was out-of-period related to some balance sheet revaluations for the AT&T beginning balance sheet that we did during the quarter, and that impacted margins about 40 basis points out of period. So if you kind of normalize for that, the quarter would have been about 19.1, and then you would look at some element of fourth quarter seasonality, plus Lightspeed, and that's how you get into kind of a mid-18 range for the year, which I would tell you, we feel very comfortable with.

JOHN HODULIK: That makes sense. And then the synergies for next year?

RICK LINDNER: I think as we look at the synergies, clearly, we're ahead of schedule in terms of migration of network traffic, which will now have a full year of impact, and we are also ahead in terms of force reductions, probably in the neighborhood of about a quarter or so ahead of plan. And so we'll have the positive benefit of both of those as we go into next year. We haven't changed guidance overall in terms of the synergy levels, but we are very confident in meeting those targets for the AT&T merger. And I think, overall, we will get there quicker than the three-year spread we outlined originally.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a couple of questions. So the true-ups that you were just talking about, was that related to $100 million on the bottom of page 2 of the investor briefing?

RICK LINDNER: Yes.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: And then the second question I had just more broadly, can you give us an update in terms of where the Large Enterprise Group is at migrating the base from the older data technologies to the newer data technologies? And, is that something that can continue to significantly weigh on the Enterprise revenue number, or can you start seeing progress on that over the next 12 months? Just a little bit of the detail as to why would be great, thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Yes, Mike, on Enterprise migration, first of all, I think we're still relatively early in that transition. If you look ahead, I've seen some marketing surveys that indicate as much as 40% of Enterprise customers are looking to increase their IP services over the next year, and that's largely migrating legacy voice and data services. So I think we'll continue to see that. The incentive for customers to migrate is that it's a more efficient solution for them. They're able to combine voice and data traffic and voice and data networks, and that results in lower costs for them, and therefore, lower revenues for us. But the good news I think is, as customers go through that migration, and once they have gone through some of that migration, we have then the ability to sell additional bandwidth and to sell additional managed services to them. And so a typical pattern for a customer going through that migration would be to reduce revenues as they migrate traffic to IP. And then over time, through increases in network requirements, bandwidth and managed services, we have the opportunity to grow that revenue stream again as we have those customers under longer-term contracts. So that's the typical progression you see. And so I think looking ahead over the next couple of years, we have that benefit to look forward to.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: First question, just real quick on merger expenses, Rick, if you could kind of touch on kind of how from a reported basis these expenses are kind of accumulating versus the -- I think it was about $1.25 billion guidance for 2006, and then by extension, with some of the accounting changes, how it's all affecting the cash-flow statement for the year?

And then the second question I guess would be on your outlook for the Wholesale business kind of leveling out after some of the integration we're seeing in '06 through '07/'08, obviously, there has been incremental consolidation in the wholesale market, the prospect of more consolidation coming. I guess there is a universe of companies out there that hope that the wholesale business outlook is something more than flat. I was wondering if you could kind of talk through some of your assumptions that go into kind of a flattish wholesale market outlook through '08? Thanks a lot.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David. Let me go back and talk a little bit first about the merger expenses. And as you saw this quarter, the merger expenses, in terms of merger integration costs being normalized, were significantly less than some prior quarters. That was due to a couple of reasons. One is, the incremental costs we incurred relative to re-branding to AT&T have been reducing. Those were obviously much heavier in the first half of the year. But then secondly, we had this change that we made to our vacation policy which produced a onetime reduction in expense. It was related to -- the policy change was related to developing consistent policies across both legacy SBC and AT&T employee bases. And so we normalized as well this quarter. But, overall, we are running about at our expectation on integration costs, a little bit under. I think we have been conservative in the past in estimating those costs. But we're going to be in the ballpark across I think those cost estimates. Certainly, the re-branding costs are coming in about as we expected. That was a big piece this year. Some of the costs associated with reducing force and consolidating organizations is coming in less than we originally expected, and that's a function purely of trying to manage changes in our employee base and to try to achieve as much of the reductions as possible through attrition. And I think our organizations have done a good job of that.

Looking at the Wholesale business, there's a number of things that we put into our Wholesale revenue stream that in some ways are a little bit unrelated. But for example, in our Wholesale business, we have our local Wholesale operations, which are sales of our UNE-P platform and sales of resale customers. So as those bases, particularly the UNE-P base is declining, Wholesale has to overcome those revenue declines to generate positive revenue growth.

And then in addition, we have our access revenues that we collect from other carriers, are included in that Wholesale base. So as access lines have declined somewhat, and as rates, particularly on intrastate access, have declined, that reduces that revenue stream. When you look that -- I think what you're thinking of and others, many others, would think of, in terms of Wholesale revenue streams, in terms of carrying Wholesale Voice and Data traffic, we are seeing growth in those areas, absent some reduction due to carriers consolidating their own traffic. But in general, we are seeing growth in minutes; a lot of it is Wireless-related. We are seeing growth in Data traffic, although we're still seeing some pricing pressures in that area. And so that's why, once you get through this -- some of this consolidation of traffic, then we expect revenues to be -- to flatten out as we go into 2008. But embedded in there, the revenues associated with carrying Wholesale traffic will be increasing, and they will be offsetting any declines in local wholesale revenues.

The other thing I would mention relative to consolidation is that, while some carriers consolidating their traffic are moving traffic off AT&T's network, at the same time, that frees up capacity and gives us the ability as we have done to move all of our voice traffic, prior SBC national voice traffic, onto that network; also gives us then capacity that we can use to put all of BellSouth's traffic and the remainder of Cingular's traffic on our own networks as we move throughout 2007. And so while you will see some revenue reduction, you're also going to see some reduction in expenses, and the net impact on the bottom-line is going to be positive from those movements.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks for the color, Rick.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions; first on line loss. You've previously made comments about sort of '06 being a peak year of erosion. I'm just wondering, sort of given three quarters of relatively stable erosion, what's sort of the interpretation here? Is it that it kind of levels off here and stays around these levels, or that rates of line loss actually step down next year, and just sort of what the assumptions underlying your expectation are. And then second question -- as we look out into '07, a couple moving parts that I'd like to dig into on the EPS side; maybe first, some comments on pension impacts. I think, directionally, you should start phasing in a stronger '06 fund performance and ultimately the results there. And then, maybe offsetting that, you talked about incremental Lightspeed dilution. Just sort of any incremental color on quantifying the magnitude of the incremental dilution from Lightspeed? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Sure. On line loss expectations, I think a couple of things. One is, we're seeing -- there's a lot of moving parts there, as you know, Jason. We are seeing some growth right now in our regional business base in terms of lines, but we're actually seeing line loss reductions in the larger customer -- enterprise customers. But when you look at it on the business side, a lot of that is really related to transition of customers to IP-based services. So they line loss there is not necessarily indicative of our expectations, with respect to revenues.

On the consumer side, we're still seeing some impacts from customers going wireless, or from wireless cannibalization, although it looks to be that those some of those impacts are starting to flatten out somewhat, and the losses there are starting to reduce.

In terms of competitive impacts in consumer, we're seeing increased line loss related to cable competition, and I think that's as you would expect. In 2005, we had the launch of just about all of the Time Warner markets in our territory, and in 2006, we're seeing the launch of all of the Comcast markets. By the end of this year, I think cable competition from a voice perspective will be pretty much fully launched. And as a result of that, you'll start to see I think the line loss there begin to top out, stabilize. And at the same time, while Wholesale lines have been declining, the rate of decline there is reducing, we would expect that to continue into 2007.

So I think when you put all of those together, our expectations as we go into 2007 is that we would start to see line losses overall begin to reduce somewhat. Still, we'll have impacts from all of those factors, and I think in particular, cable competition in next year. But on balance, it seems that we're starting to top out in terms of line loss.

On earnings per share, there will be some additional moving parts as we go into next year, certainly as we bring BellSouth into the Company. I think the good news there is that BellSouth's pension and post-retirement medical plans are very well funded, in the 90%-plus range. And so as we get to the end of this year, this is somewhat dependent on where discount rates and interest rates end up at the end of the year. But post-merge, I would expect that we will be, in total, both pension and post-retirement and medical, funded in about the mid-80% range, which is a very good position to be in.

And so looking ahead to next year, I think at this point, our expectation is that our pension and benefit costs on a pro forma basis certainly would be relatively flat for this next year. We will see, as we talked about, some additional Lightspeed dilution as we start to ramp the markets. That will be primarily related to customer acquisition costs. I can't give you any definitive guidance at this point. We're still finalizing '07 plans, and obviously, the BellSouth merger and how we roll out video products within the BellSouth territory will have some impact on that. But where we are this point and looking ahead to 2007, again, we remain confident in the ability to grow adjusted EPS at double-digit rates next year.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jeff Halpern, Sanford Bernstein.

JEFF HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Most of my questions have been answered, but Rick, just a follow-up on that last one. FAS 158 is going to cause you to have to recognize a reduction in shareholder's equity as a result of pension funding and OPEB funding. Can you just talk about when you think that's going to end up on the balance sheet and the what the effect is going to be in dollar terms; and then also on a pro forma basis, given what you've just said about BellSouth's balance sheet?

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Jeff. First of all, let me address it just kind of AT&T standalone. And if you look at our pension and post-retirement and medical funding and liabilities today, we would expect at the end of this year, assuming if discount rates stay the same as last year, we would have an additional liability on the balance sheet of about $16 billion. That would be -- that additional liability would be tax affected, and so it would impact shareholder's equity by about $10 billion. Now I would tell you, and my expectation is that the impact in the number will be less than that, and it will be less because I think at current rates, we're going to see probably at least a 25-basis-point increase and maybe a 50-basis-point increase, depending upon where we end the year in discount rates. That increase in discount rates obviously reduces the liability that will have to be booked. But I think that should give you kind of a magnitude of the number, certainly on a worst-case basis.

When you then fold in BellSouth, as I said, BellSouth is funded in total in their liability at about 90%, or a little over 90%, and the amount that would be unfunded is around $2 billion, I believe. And when you purchase a company, we will state all of the assets and liabilities, including the pension and post-retirement and medical assets and liabilities at market in the beginning balance sheet. So that's the funding level that you'll see hit the balance sheet.

JEFF HALPERN: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Credit Suisse.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: A couple of questions. Enterprise has been flat as you mentioned the last couple of quarters, yet the guidance is that end of '08 is when you start seeing that return to growth. Is it possible we could see that return to growth a little bit earlier?

Secondly, on the concessions you have offered to date for the BellSouth transaction, can you give us a sense for what the impact to the income statement might be of those? And then, what is the long pole in the tent, so to speak, on the HDTV rollout with U-verse? Is there constraints on set-top boxes or anything else for the mid-November or late-November rollout there? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Chris, on Enterprise, we are encouraged by the results that we're seeing this last quarter or two. Frankly, I would like to see another quarter or two of results and see if that changes our outlook. We still have a situation where, if you look at the Enterprise base in terms of areas that are declining, it's in voice traffic, and it's primarily LD traffic, and we still have a difference between average point of sale pricing and pricing embedded in the base that's in the low 20% range. Now that has come down. If you looked at it a year ago, it was closer to 30%. But that difference between point-of-sale pricing and pricing in the base is still there, and so that will put pressure on revenues for the next year or so. And so that's the primary driver of our expectation that it's in the second half of '08 before we start to see year-over-year growth. But, clearly, if we continue to see good results there, continue to see good results in Data and IP revenues, there are some categories, like Managed Services and Hosting, that are growing at strong double-digit rates. We continue to see that; that will impact those results, but I would like to see another quarter or two before we change our outlook there.

Relative to the BellSouth transaction and approval at the FCC -- as you know, we have a meeting scheduled at the FCC on November 3rd. We believe that the merger is a positive. We believe it's a positive for the industry, it's a positive for consumers, and we believe it should be approved. As all of you know, there aren't really any competitive issues associated with this merger. We're seeing strong and increasing competition across just about every segment of the market that we participate in, and that's why 18 states and the Department of Justice approved this merger without conditions. But, we would like to get the deal done, and in trying to expedite the approval, we have made some proposals that I think are very pro-competitive and pro-consumer. And, hopefully, we look forward to getting this deal done on November 3rd.

We're still awaiting to hear response from the FCC, and so there aren't any proposals related to the merger that have been agreed to or finalized, and so it's premature for me to comment on financial impacts. What I would say is that, I don't see anything at this point that would change guidance that we have provided relative to the Company in total or guidance that we've provided to you at the time we announced the BellSouth merger.

And on HDTV, you know, I don't think there are any long poles in the tent at this point. We're going through the trial process in Houston, it's going very well. We are on the same schedule that we outlined when we talked to you at the end of last quarter. The field trial with HDTV is going well in Houston. We have done some upgrades to our network here in San Antonio, so we'll roll HDTV here at the same time. I believe the set-top boxes are on target, so I would expect this by the end of November to be rolling on a commercial basis with HD in both San Antonio and Houston, and then we're lined up to begin rolling markets on a weekly basis after that.

CHRIS LARSEN: Thanks.

RICH DIETZ: Dawn, this will have to be to be our last question. The next question will have to be our last question.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, JP Morgan.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Great, thanks for taking the question. If I could just follow up on the last question quickly. In looking at the Enterprise revenue trends, we've had two quarters in a row now of flattish trends in sort of mid-'06. And as we look out to '07, I'm just wondering -- you're seeing improving trends in Voice, and that's where the drag is. And there's obviously strong growth in the growing pieces of Enterprise, and I'm just wondering what you're sort of most concerned about. Are you concerned that Voice declines might accelerate again, or that the growing pieces of Enterprise might start to slow meaningfully? I'm just wondering why 2007 isn't the turnaround year in Enterprise revenue growth.

And then, secondly, if I could just ask quickly on the Video, I think you launched at the end of June. The footprint that you're serving, now that you have 10% penetration of, did you go out to all of that footprint at about the same time at the end of June, or have you expanded that footprint since you've been in the market? And then I'm just wondering if you have any sense of how not having HD has held back penetration in that market? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Jonathan, on Enterprise revenues, our expectation is we will continue to see improvement as we go into 2007 and throughout 2007 again. I think the expectation in terms of 2008 being the year where in total it turns -- the revenue stream there turns positive again has more to do with just the remaining impact and pressure on Voice revenues that we see in the base versus what's in the marketplace today.

I think, obviously, a concern as we look ahead in Enterprise is always a combination of what happens in the economy and what happens with respect to overall spending with these large Enterprise customers, combined with what we see in the marketplace going forward from a competitive pricing standpoint. This is still a very competitive marketplace with a number of players and some consolidation of smaller players that you've seen that are and will be more of a factor in the marketplace. So we'll have to see there how those dynamics play out in terms of pricing. But again, we're encouraged by this quarter's results and I'd just like to see another quarter or two, and then we'll continue to refine our projections going forward based on that.

In terms of you U-verse, let me tell you a little bit about what has happened here in San Antonio. As we've talked about, we've purposely gone slow in San Antonio. We wanted to trial the service and the platform. And, frankly, we didn't want to put too many customers on the platform before we had the HD capability. That was not so much an issue in terms of marketing and adding customers at this time as it was the fact that we'll need to go back in for our existing customers, we'll have to replace the set-top boxes. It does have some customer impacts in areas like, for example, that customers will lose some programming that they may have recorded on their DVR and so forth. And that, plus just the additional cost, we wanted to limit the homes that we were marketing to, and we limited it to a range of about 30,000 households, 30,000 living units.

What we have seen has been very encouraging. Within a three-month period, we have achieved about 10% penetration across that base. In some areas, for example, we've gone into some multiple dwelling units where we have gotten penetration as high as 25% within a three-month period. So the results there are encouraging to us. We're doing it with some different marketing techniques, going very local into the neighborhoods as we turn the service up; that's working very well for us. And so we look forward to getting HD in the platform. I do think that, today, that's certainly important and will open up the market further for us. But mainly, we look forward to just beginning to ramp and scale this product.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Thanks very much.

RICH DIETZ: Okay, that concludes the question and answer session. Rick has some closing comments before we adjourn the call.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Rich. And first of all, let me just say thanks to everybody for taking part in the call today. We always appreciate your time and certainly appreciate your interest.

I think, overall, it was a strong quarter for us. And as we talked about today, merger integration and achievement of synergies in the AT&T merger are not only on track, they are ahead of schedule. And as a result, margins have expanded, EPS growth was strong, cash flow was solid. And the bottom-line, as we said, is we're delivering on our targets and doing what we said we'd do. But I think just as important, when I look at the trends in the business and I look ahead to what AT&T will become once we have completed the BellSouth merger, I think the most encouraging thing that I saw this quarter is that, in addition to merger, integration and cost savings opportunities, which are substantial, we also have a business that over the next few years is going to be able to generate value through top-line growth.

At the time of the BellSouth merger announcement back in March, I said we expected to return to overall revenue growth in 2007 versus pro forma results for '06, and the revenue trends we saw this quarter, particularly in Wireless with over 12% Wireless service revenue growth, and in Business with accelerating growth in regional business revenues and improved trends in Enterprise -- those things add to the confidence we have in that overall revenue outlook and give us a much better line of sight towards that goal. And that's encouraging, and frankly, it's exciting for us. So, again, we look forward to building on this quarter's results going forward, we want to thank you for joining us, and again, thank you for your interest in AT&T.

RICH DIETZ: Thank you, Rick. Dawn, that will conclude the call from our part.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061106e2an000p2
  


 HD
 Q4  2005  AT & T  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,197 words
   PD
26 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the AT&T fourth quarter earnings release for 2005 conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Rich Dietz, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Dietz, you may begin.

   TD
RICH DIETZ, SVP IR, AT & T INC.: Thank you, Mary. And good morning to everyone.

This morning and with me on the call today is Rick Lindner, our Chief Financial Officer. We're delighted to have you with us for the first quarterly earnings conference call for the new AT&T.

To get us started, let me cover a few items. First, we will speak to a set of presentation slides that are available on the Investor Relations page of our web site, that's sbc.com/att.investor.relations. Our earnings release, investor briefing, and supplementary information were all issued earlier today, and they are all available on that same site.

Second, I need to cover our Safe Harbor statement and remind you that information set forth in this presentation contains financial estimates and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results might differ material. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in AT&T's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. AT&T disclaims any obligation to update and revise statements contained in this presentation, based on new information or otherwise. This presentation may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, reconciliations between the non-GAAP financial measures, and the GAAP financial measures are available on the company's Web site. On slide four, provides additional information about our fourth quarter results.

As you know, SBC Communications acquired AT&T Corp. midway through the quarter. And at that time, we adopted the name AT&T Inc. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, our reported financials include AT&T Corp. results starting from the transaction's close on November 18. To provide consistency, we have done two things. As we finalize new segments, we have kept SBC's previous financial segments, and we show AT&T Corp. results as a separate segment for the period after transaction close through December 31. In this transactional quarter, to help investors see continuing trends in the AT&T Corp. business, we also show full-quarter pro forma revenue results which were filed with the SEC earlier today, and which are available on the investor page of our Web site, under the heading Financial and Operating Results.

It has also been our custom over the past few years to include guidance as part of our fourth quarter earnings call. This year, we will cover forward-looking guidance and the business plans that support that guidance, at our analyst day in New York, next Tuesday. Updates to AT&T merger synergies, and Project Lightspeed status will be included. This meeting will take place this coming Tuesday, January 31, in New York, at 12:30 Eastern time. The event will also be web cast on the AT&T web site. With that in mind, on today's call, we will not be able to respond to any questions regarding 2006 guidance.

Now, I would like to review our EPS comparisons which are on slide five. Starting with the column on the left, our adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.48. Reported EPS was $0.46. We add back $0.08 of Cingular merger integration and intangible amortization costs and a very small amount of hurricane-related costs. We also add back $0.16 of costs related to the AT&T merger, including asset impairments, severance, and other integration costs, and customer amortization. We add another $0.02 for force reduction charges from cost initiatives unrelated to the merger. We subtract a $0.25 benefit we received in the quarter from tax settlements. And the result is an adjusted EPS of $0.48. Comparable EPS in the fourth quarter a year ago was $0.34. Walking down the column on the right, reported EPS was $0.21. We had $0.08 of Cingular merger related costs, $0.03 of force reduction costs, plus $0.02 for a lease accounting adjustment at Cingular, adjustments for tax settlement impacts and pension charges cancel each other out, resulting in an adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter a year ago of $0.34.

So bottom line, our adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter of 2005 was $0.48, up 41% versus comparable EPS in a year-ago quarter. And as Rick will outline for you in detail, the two major drivers of this improvement are expanded margins at Cingular, plus impressive execution and expanded margins in our wireline business. And the fact that the AT&T acquisition was accretive to adjusted results.

Okay, with that as our background, I will turn it to Rick Lindner, AT&T's Chief Financial Officer. Rick?

RICK LINDNER, CFO, PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER, SVP, AT&T INC.: Thanks, Rich and good morning, everyone. It's great to have you with us this morning.

As Rich said, our focus this morning will be on fourth quarter results. We will cover our 2006 guidance and in fact our outlook for the next three years at our investor conference in New York this coming Tuesday. On behalf of the entire AT&T executive team, I hope you can attend the meeting on Tuesday. It is an opportunity we've been looking forward to, to meet with investors in person, and provide more back ground on the new AT&T. We hope to see many of you there.

Turning to the matter at hand, let me summarize our fourth quarter by saying that across our operations, we continue to deliver very solid results. We ended the year with good momentum in wireless and wireline. We're pleased with the AT&T assets we've added, they're in great shape. We're generating solid cash flow and we're returning cash to our owners via stock repurchase and dividend growth.

Slide seven provides the highlights of the quarter. We continue to attack costs, and looking at our adjusted results, we achieved substantial margin expansion, both in our wireline operations and at Cingular Wireless. Our adjusted wireline operating income margin was up 400 basis points versus the year-ago fourth quarter, and Cingular's normalized EBITDA margin was 31%, up 760 basis points over the past year.

We also continued to compete and drive growth in key areas. In our wireline business, we posted our seventh straight quarter of revenue growth. Seven consecutive quarters of growth in total wireline revenues in business and in consumer. In retail high cap data revenues, we had our best growth in more than two years, and Cingular pro forma revenues were up 9.4%, our fourth straight quarter of steadily improving wireless revenue growth.

We're also generating strong cash flow. Cash from operations was 4.6 billion in the quarter, and 13 billion for the full year. Full-year free cash flow after dividends was 5.6 billion. During the fourth quarter, we repurchased more than $1 billion of our shares and our board declared a dividend increase in December for the 21st consecutive year. So overall, strong execution as we finalized our merger with AT&T.

As Rich mentioned, one of the key drivers of our results has been margin expansion and slide eight provides more details. The chart on the left shows adjusted wireline operating income margins, fourth quarter versus fourth quarter. The second chart shows adjusted consolidated operating income margins. Now, just as a reminder, these consolidated results do not include results from Cingular, but they do include results from AT&T Corp. for the period after the transaction closed through year-end. We've adjusted out severance and pension costs in the fourth quarter of '04, also severance and AT&T merger-related charges in the fourth quarter of 2005. On this basis, our consolidated margin expanded 170 basis points and our wireline margin expanded 400 basis points.

On an adjusted basis, we made steady progress, reducing operating expenses. We've worked to streamline processes in our call centers and network centers. We've made progress moving more sales and service transactions to the web. And these improvements have allowed us to reduce force in an orderly, logical way. In our legacy SBC operation, we reduced force by 2400 in the fourth quarter. And for the year, we were down more than 10,000. The vast majority of these reductions occurred through natural attrition, and our progress in these areas has more than offset natural cost pressure from volume growth. That volume growth is evident in our wireline revenue trends which we summarize on slide nine. Total wireline revenues were up 1.3%. Business revenues were up 1.9%. And consumer revenues were up 4.6%. A very solid quarter. Our retail revenue growth more than offset an expected decline in wholesale revenues. Wireline wholesale revenues were down 3.3%, versus the year-ago quarter, and this is an improvement from last quarter and reflects good demand from carriers, particularly wireless.

Now, let's cover some of the key drivers of our wireline revenue growth, starting with data services. Those are summarized on slide ten. In the fourth quarter, our total wireline data revenues grew 7.8%. High cap revenues grew 6.5%, driven by products such as DS1s, DS3s and dedicated IP. Retail high cap revenues grew 7.7% and we had our second straight quarter of mid single digit growth in wholesale high cap revenues.

DSL Internet revenues were up a solid 21%, reflecting a very good unit growth over the past year. And Data, at a 3.1 billion quarterly run rate, now represents a third of our total wireline revenues. Data is also key to growth in our business markets, which are covered on slide 11. As you see on the left of this slide, we've had solid growth in retail high cap data revenues. That's data transport for business customers. And as I mentioned, these revenues were up 7.7% in the fourth quarter. That's our fourth straight quarter of improved high cap growth rate.

Small and medium business also continues to be an area of strength for us. In the fourth quarter, SMB revenues grew 7.2%. That compares with 4.9% growth in this category last quarter. For the full year, our small and medium business access lines increased by 229,000. And our overall business access lines had stabilized over recent quarters. That has occurred while at the same time many firms are migrating to product sets such as Voice over IP, which don't show up in traditional access line counts. Based on our recent research, more than 30% of business line losses are for technology reasons, and we are retaining the majority of those customers as they migrate from voice to data services. We will cover the business markets in much more detail at our analyst conference next week.

Slide 12 shows the drivers behind consumer growth. Our wireline consumer revenues were up 4.6% in the quarter, and the drivers of that growth, very simply, are bundling and broadband. Our key product bundle penetration is now 68%. That's an access line, plus at least one key service -- DSL, long distance, dish, or jointly billed Cingular. More to the point, over the past year, our consumer retail connections increased by a million, consumer connections are retail access lines, plus DSL, and video customers.

A couple of years ago, our total consumer connections were declining. But over the past several quarters, we've turned that around, and we've now posted three straight quarters with an annual increase of a million or more. And as a result, our consumer ARPU was up 7.8% in the fourth quarter.

The center piece of our consumer bundle is DSL and those results are on slide 13. As you see in this chart, DSL penetration of consumer primary lines now exceeds 25%, up 780 basis points this year, and we have more than doubled our companywide penetration over the past two years. Our best region, California and Nevada, now has a consumer DSL penetration above 31%. We had a net increase in DSL lines this quarter of 425,000. The same as in the fourth quarter a year ago. And over the past four quarters, we've added 1.8 million, and our base now approaches 7 million, well ahead of our closest telco peer. DSL Internet is a sizable revenue stream with an annualized run rate approaching $3 billion, and more strategy click, broadband is a key foundation product for us, that's why we've been a leader driving broadband penetration and we will continue to have it as a major emphasis going forward.

Long distance also contributed to wireline revenue growth. The trends are on slide 14. We now have 23.5 million LD lines in our former SBC regional operations, representing an annualized revenue stream approaching $4 billion. These revenues continue to show good growth. In the fourth quarter, they were up 13.4%, versus the year-ago quarter, and up 3.7% sequentially. Since mid-2005, our consumer LD revenues per line had increased 7.5%, reflecting pricing actions, and the fact that more customers are on plan with monthly recurring charges. And despite these pricing action, over the same period, our consumer LD churn has stayed flat.

Well, that covers our wireline segment. Now, let me turn and talk briefly about AT&T Corp. results for the fourth quarter, these are shown on slide 15. As Rich explained at the outset, under purchase accounting, our reported financials show AT&T Corp. results after the transaction closed. To help investors who were looking for trends in the business we also have made available data on full quarter revenues, and this data was calculated on a consistent basis with AT&T Corp.'s prior quarters, and reflects what these revenues would have been if the merger not closed in the fourth quarter. Detail is available on our web site.

Looking at full quarter results, the key change in trend from recent quarters is the business revenue line, where we had a smaller decline than we had seen in some time. On a consistent basis with those reported by AT&T Corp. in the past, business revenues were down 8.3%. However, in the year-ago quarter, there was a $97 million lift to revenues from a reciprocal compensation settlement. Taking that out, business revenues declined 6.7%, and that's the smallest decline in this category in nine quarters. Additionally, AT&T sold its pay phone business in the second quarter of last year and revenues from that sold unit are in the fourth quarter 2004 business revenue total. If you exclude those revenues, fourth quarter business revenues were down 5.9%. IP and enhanced revenues were up 8.2% in the quarter, and sequentially, IP&E revenues were up 7.4%, with strength in EVPN, IP-enabled frame and hosting. Consumer revenues declined 24.9%, in line with recent quarters, and a reflection of management's actions to focus away from customer acquisition efforts in that market. In general, the AT&T Corp. businesses are performing substantially better than we had modeled in our acquisition planning a year ago, with lower churn, and better revenues.

The other major contributor to our adjusted EPS growth is Cingular Wireless, on slide 16. As you heard in their conference call earlier this week, Cingular continues to make good progress on multiple fronts. Adjusted margins are up substantially over the past year, up 760 basis points to 31%, while at the same time we grew the customer base by 5 million, or 10%. Gross adds continue to be strong at 5.1 million, and over the past four quarters we've led the industry in gross flow share. Churn was down to 2.1% overall, and 1.9% in post pay.

We've made terrific progress on GSM conversion; 95% of Cingular's minutes are now on GSM. Cingular has also made very good progress integrating networks. All of its TD made networks are converted and significant progress has been made in the GSM overlap markets. And most importantly, where we've completed integration, we've seen significant improvement in network performance metrics. And our UMTS/HSDPA deployment is on schedule, with 16 markets launched in the fourth quarter.

Another positive trend is Cingular's revenue growth, which we show on slide 17. In the fourth quarter, Cingular revenues were up 9.4%. As you see in the bar chart, that's our best growth in some time, and we've now had four consecutive quarters with higher revenue growth. The drivers are fairly straightforward. First, good subscriber growth, up 5 million over the past year, to more than 54 million. The second driver is progress in data services.

Cingular's Data ARPU was up more than 60% in the quarter. And in the fourth quarter of 2005, Cingular had nearly 24 million active data customers, delivered 72 million multimedia messages and 6.1 billion text messages. This has had a positive impact on overall ARPU trends. Cingular's overall ARPU is down 2.2% in the fourth quarter on a pro forma basis, and that's good improvement from the 5% pro forma decline in the third quarter. And excluding the increase in the resale mix, ARPU was flat year-over-year. Cingular also launched some exciting new services in the fourth quarter, including push to talk, and sales were strong in the high-end business space, where they signed 800 new contracts in the quarter.

I commented on cash flow and share repurchase in my opening comments, slide 18 provides the detailed summary on the quarter and the year. In the fourth quarter, cash from operations totaled 4.6 billion, capital expenditures were 1.8 billion, and approximately 170 million of that was from AT&T Corp., subsequent to closing. We paid 1.1 billion in dividends, leaving free cash flow after dividends and capex of 1.5 billion, with roughly 550 million of that from AT&T Corp. For the full year, cash from operations totaled 13 billion, capex totaled 5.6 billion, and free cash flow after dividends and capex was also 5.6 billion.

As we told you in our third quarter earnings call, we would use our free cash flow to repurchase shares. And in the fourth quarter, we bought back 1.1 billion in shares. And 1.6 billion in total over the second half of 2005. At the same time, our board declared a dividend increase of 3.1%. We've increased our annual dividend every year in our history. We also strengthened our balance sheet, as we said we would do after the AT&T Wireless acquisition. We ended the year with 1.2 billion in cash. That's after the 1.6 billion in share repurchase in the last two quarters ,and we reduced debt by more than 4.8 billion in 2005, ending the year with a debt-to-capitalization ratio under 36%.

Slide 19 gives you a quick summary of the quarter. We continue to make great progress at Cingular, with lower churn, expanded margin, and improving revenue growth trends. In our wire-line operation, we posted our seventh straight quarter of revenue growth and our seventh straight quarter of adjusted year-over-year margin expansion. We're off to an excellent start on the AT&T merger integration. And cash flow continues to be strong to support dividend growth and share repurchase.

To close, I thought it would be useful to stack our 2005 results up against the guidance we provided a year ago. At the beginning of the year, we said we expected low single digit percentage revenue growth. And we said we expected positive revenue growth at Cingular in its first year after acquiring AT&T Wireless. For the full year, we delivered 1.5% revenue growth in wireline, and Cingular posted an increase of 6.6%, with improved growth rates as the year progressed. Our original guidance on adjusted operating income margins was 15 to 16% ,and in our SBC operations we achieved 17.1%. Our capex range was 5.4 to 5.7 billion in SBC operations and we came in at the low end of that. Our original guidance for free cash flow after dividends was 3 billion. We delivered 5 billion.

To sum it up, what we committed to, we achieved, and more in 2005. That concludes my prepared remarks. Rich, I believe we're ready to take some questions.

RICH DIETZ: Great, thanks, Rick. Mary, we're ready for questions, if you would take us through that.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. We will now begin the question-and-answer session.

[OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]

Thank you, our first question comes from Mike McCormack, from Bear Stearns. Please go ahead, sir.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & CO.: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just a couple of questions.

First, on wireline legacy SBC margin if, you will. Just if you could walk us through your thoughts, and I know we will hear more data next week, but thoughts on sort of sustainability, obviously you had pretty good head count reduction, this year, I think in '06, you will clearly have more spending around Lightspeed. Maybe give us a sense for how much we can expect force reduction to carry over into 2006? And secondly, on the AT&T legacy business, obviously we may be seeing some stability there reflected in the revenue number. Your thoughts, maybe, on the pricing environment there, what you're doing on the consumer customer, whether they can be migrated from wholesale back to retail? And then, just if there is any way we can look at a full quarter of profitability on the AT&T legacy business, if there is a number there that you can provide, that would be great. Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Okay. Mike, I will try to tackle all of those.

First, with respect to SBC margins, I think the good news, as you dig into the numbers and sort through the numbers, I think you should feel good about sustainability in terms of the margin performance there, because the things that we have done are changes, improvements in processes, consolidation of call centers, movement of more of our traffic to web-based, and IVR services, and so those are all things that are sustainable going forward. As you know, and as we talked about on the call, we had substantial reduction in force this year about, 10,000, as a result of those changes. And so obviously, we will get the full benefit of that as we go into next year. And we improved margins this year, as we said, year-over-year, 400 basis points in the fourth quarter in wireline, and that's despite the fact that we had some growth in pension and OPEB costs, and despite the fact that we had some dilution from development in Project Lightspeed. And so going forward, I think you should expect some of the benefits that we generated this year certainly to carry over into 2006. And we will continue, this is just a part of the business today, we will continue to work to improve processes and improve cost structure, because it it becomes a strategic advantage for us going forward, and you will hear more about our thoughts on Tuesday, in terms of continued ways outside of merger integration and synergies, continued ways we can improve the cost structure in the business.

On the AT&T side, I will tell you, in pricing, with about a total of nine or 10 weeks experience in this, it is difficult for us to reach firm conclusions with respect to how pricing is progressing. But what I would tell you is this. The -- we are seeing, across the industry, growth in traffic and demand. We're seeing growth in minutes on our networks, we're seeing demand for more bandwidth, we're seeing substantial growth in IP traffic. At the same time, as you know, in many parts of this industry over the last several years, there has not been significant investment in capacity. And so I think a natural progression in the industry will be for that demand and supply formula to start to bring some -- to set some floors under pricing. And so I think that, probably more than consolidation or other competitive factors, will bring some stability over time.

The truth is, for the large customers, for the large enterprise customers, and for the large wholesale customers, it is still going to be a very competitive pricing environment. With respect to AT&T Corp.'s consumer base, that base has thrown off, as you know, in looking at the 2005 results, it throws off some very nice margins and some very nice cash flow. And we will continue to enjoy that margin and cash flow stream. I think there are some opportunities and we will talk about them, in fact, Scott Helbing, who leads our consumer marketing effort, will talk more about this on Tuesday, but obviously, we have some opportunities now, post-close, particularly in-region, and even in some cases out-of-region, to market some bundles of products, including wireless, DSL in-region, and Dish TV, and enhance the revenues of that base. So we will talk more about that, more about that next week.

MIKE MCCORMACK: And just on the full quarter of profitability, is there something you can share with us on that?

RICK LINDNER: Well, on full quarter profitability, I guess the best thing I can share with you is this. If you take out some of the noise from merger adjustments and amortization of intangibles that occurred as a result of the merger, things like that, normally fourth quarter would be a little bit lower in terms of margins. You have a little seasonal downturn in long distance volumes, less business days in December, and so forth. And so I think you see a little bit of that, but in general, you would see business margins in the AT&T Corp. business in the low 20s, similar to what you would see in the rest of the year, and in the consumer business, margins around -- EBITDA margins now around 30%.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Yeah, that's helpful. Thank you, Rick.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from John Hodulik, from UBS. Please go ahead.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just a quick follow-up on that. This decline in the business segment at AT&T, 5.9%, I know you want to sort of get away from giving guidance on the call, but can you get a little more granular? That is a dramatic improvement over the last few quarters. Is that something to expect going forward, that kind of rate of decline? And any more information on what's particularly driving that would be great.

And then, just as it relates to cable competition, obviously Comcast is going to ramp up throughout the year. Do you expect this sort of low-200s in terms of retail residential line loss to continue, or can you just comment on how you see cable competition progressing and how it impacted you this quarter? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: I think on the business segment declines, John, let me tell you a little bit about what we saw in this quarter, and then I am going to let Forrest Miller and Mark Kiefer talk really about the outlook on the business markets when we're in New York next Tuesday.

But what we saw this quarter was, for one thing, continued growth in volumes. There was strong growth, low double digit growth in minute volumes. There was some good volume growth in some of the data services T1s, T3s, OCN services. There was, of course, nice growth over 8% growth in IP and E-services. And we're still seeing, both in the legacy data and certainly in the long distance rate per minute, we're still seeing pricing pressure. Some of it is on the legacy data side, certainly that's competitive pricing pressure, and just the movement of the base, as customers come out of contract and move to more current rates.

On the rate per minute side, there is some movement and some of that reflects movement of those minutes from retail minutes to more wholesale minutes. And so there is a rate action there. But that's essentially what we saw in the fourth quarter. And I would say the improvements there were in good -- some good volume growth, and some nice growth in IP & E-services.

With respect to cable competition, what we have seen in the last few quarters is-- we've actually seen access lines, if you look at retail consumer lines, you know, the losses have been fairly stable. And in fact, our churn rates on access lines, retail access lines, had been lower, and had been better. We're obviously going to see some impact as Comcast enters the market, but we've had -- we've really had Time-Warner now in for most of this year and marketing very hard in all of their markets. And we've had some of Comcast in the latter part of 2005. We really frankly, I think, are seeing the customers going to cable more out of, in some cases, our wholesale base, where frankly, we've lost those customers already, and so we're just a wholesale provider at this point.

And I think the other area of opportunity for us, as churn rates have come down in the consumer space, the other area of opportunity for us, and I think Scott Helbing will talk more about this next week, but it is in some specific initiatives where we're working to get out front, to garner more share of customers that, as they're moving, and starting service again, we want to make sure we're getting a strong share of those inwards. But so far, when you look at 2005, actually, the retail line loss has been pretty stable, despite a lot of entry and marketing by cable and VoIP providers, and consumer lines I think will -- those losses -- I'm sorry, not consumer line, the wholesale line losses, are starting to come down somewhat. And that's a reflection of the fact that we're kind of moving through the bubble from UNE-P pricing changes and most now of our lines are UNE-P lines, are on commercial agreement.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Simon Flannery, from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Thank you very much, good morning. Can you just talk a little bit about the AT&T integration so far, the AT&T Corp. integration? You talked about legacy head count being down 2400 in the quarter. Any updates on what happened to the head count at AT&T since acquisition? And related to, that I think you had a $0.16 merger charge, can you help us with sort of the key elements of that severance, rebranding, cash, noncash, and a quick comment on directory, revenue down a little bit, but SG&A very down significantly there. Thank you.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, Simon. I will be happy to talk about those. In terms of AT&T integration, again, we're going to cover that in terms of the progress and the outlook in a lot of detail next week.

But as you would expect, in the first eight, nine, 10 weeks, what we've worked very hard to do is get our organizations in place. Forrest Miller is heading up the AT&T core business units. He has named his key leadership team. Many of those officers will be at the conference next week. We're very pleased with the people and some of the key leaders we've been able to retain in the AT&T Corp. operation, so, I think everything there so far has been on track. I think the best news is the transition has been, I think, very seamless from a customer standpoint. We actually had set up some special SWAT teams to handle any customer concerns or customer issues, and frankly, those folks have had very little to do. So the transition has gone very well.

In terms of the $0.16 of charges in this quarter, let me give you the major pieces of that. We booked just under $350 million of asset impairments. And so obviously that is a noncash charge. And those asset impairments related primarily to some SBC assets that we had network assets out-of-region, as well as some internal use software. And the out-of-region and assets were written down because our plan will be to move those customers and that traffic on to existing AT&T facilities. Likewise, we had some capitalized software, and that software was supporting data applications for enterprise customers. Those customers will be moved over to the AT&T platforms and systems, so we wrote down that software.

Another piece of the $0.16 is we took a charge of about 283 million for severance charges, and this relates to the merger plans we have in place, and essentially our estimates of impacts to former SBC business units, related to the consolidation of organizations with the merger. And then on top of that, we did have about 50 million or so of branding costs and other integration costs. The branding was primarily some brand launch advertising, some write-off of some signage that we had in certain areas. So that was in the quarter. And then the final item was from November 18 forward, we had intangible amortization related to the value placed on the AT&T customer base. And that was in about the 180, $185 million range. So those are essentially the elements that make that up.

The last question you had, Simon, was with respect to directory, and as you correctly noted, there was a revenue decline in directory that was a little larger than we have had for the year. There was also a positive variance in their operating expenses, I believe, down in selling costs. Those two are somewhat related and it relates to a change we made in how we handle barter sales in directory, which typically are heavier in the fourth quarter, and we made a change, instead of recognizing those barter sales in revenues and expenses in the quarter in which they occurred, we're now amortizing them over the life of the book, so that had an impact on those year-over-year growth rates. And there was also an adjustment that was a reclass between uncollectibles and revenues, uncollectibles shows up as part of selling expenses. So that pretty well accounts for that change in the trend of directory. But as you also saw in there, the margins and the operating income stayed at very good levels.

SIMON FLANNERY: So is minus 3% a -- if that is not the true run rate, is it a little better than that?

RICK LINDNER: No, it would be better than that. We can get back with you on better numbers, but I think the combination of those two factors that I talked about probably impacted fourth quarter revenues by something in the 20 to 25 million range.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Jason Armstrong from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks, good morning. A couple of questions.

First, just a follow-up on John, I'm just wondering if you can break out your retail access line loss for us across wireless substitution, cable telephony and maybe other factors and just be a little more concrete.

The second question relates to the out of territory UNE-P lines that have you now from legacy AT&T and I'm just wondering how these lines fit into the strategy going forward, and specifically, you've got a bunch of low-margin subs, at this point, in Verizon's territory, and they, correspondingly have a bunch of former MCI subs in your territory, so it seems like there could be an opportunity here, so I'm wondering if you can comment on that.

And then finally, just let me ask you the wireless question, given the new information this morning from Verizon. Cingular has made commitments to get to industry leading metrics with that asset, which I think were based more on a convergence assumption of Cingular metrics getting better and the industry leaders getting a little bit worse. The results from Verizon this morning seems to indicate there are no real signs of a crack there. So I'm just wondering, as you look at Cingular, are you still comfortable pointing people to industry-leading metrics for the business by 2007? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Jason, on retail line losses, as we look first of all at data where we see customers porting, we actually saw a little bit of a decline this quarter in the percent of customers porting to cable or VoIP providers, and we saw some increase in some other areas, including even some increase in some customers porting into resale or local wholesale complete types of arrangements. But overall, the trends remain the same and that is I think in terms of retail lines, those lines are going first to wireless substitution, secondly a decline in lines, particularly secondary lines, are simply broadband, reflect broadband substitution. And then I think third, to cable and VoIP providers. But as I said earlier, at least up to this point, there seems to be more of the lines on the wholesale side that may be going to other providers as opposed to our retail lines, and our retail churn rates continue to be good, and to improve.

On the out-of-region customers, there's -- first of all, AT&T Corp. had, at the end of the year, about 14.5 million or so customers that are stand-alone long distance customers, and then a little over 3 million customers that are bundled. And of those bundled customers, probably 40% are more -- are in our region. And then when you look outside the region, I don't know that I would characterize those customers and that base as low margin today. For one, they're bundled, so they're producing not only local but good LD revenues, and overall ARPUs from those customers are pretty strong. And the fact is, the customer acquisition cost has already been borne. So we will continue to manage and service that base. And I think as Scott will talk about next week, we will look at opportunities even to enhance the offerings we had to that base. But it is a good margin and a good cash flow stream, and so we will continue to manage it.

With wireless, we are really pleased with Cingular's progress. And the truth of the matter is, we have not really seen the impacts of the most significant element of the integration, and that is the integration of the local networks. While we did complete some integration of local networks in 2005, that was done in the latter part of the year. And what we are seeing in those networks is really good performance and significant improvement in network performance around blocked calls, dropped calls, and voice quality. And those are the drivers that will, I think drive significant improvement to Cingular's churn, and in turn, improvement on the margin side.

We're also seeing at Cingular, I think, some nice trends in ARPUs and in revenues. And we will see, as we get through the network integration over this next year, I think we will see significant improvement in their results through 2006 and into 2007. The thing that you have to remember, and Verizon has done a terrific job in their wireless business, and in the results there, but they've had the luxury of not going through a technology change-out. And that's a significant event in terms of network performance and a significant event in terms of impacting the customer base, new handsets, new devices, changes in billing systems, and so forth. But we're really starting to see the ramp-up of the metrics at Cingular, and we're -- I think we feel very confident that 2006 and '07 are going to be great years in wireless for us.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay. Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from David Barden from Banc of America Securities. Please go ahead.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, guys, thanks a lot. I just wanted to maybe kind of talk a little bit on pricing just philosophically, I mean if we look at 2005, you guys really kind of came out of the gate swinging on DSL pricing, kind of taking the first of what we've seen are many steps bringing unlimited LD pricing down, also, you know, very aggressive posture on video in the satellite market. Over the course of the year, the DSL subscriber growth has matured, you're now with AT&T kind an incumbent LD provider, if you will. Some of the recent moves on DSL pricing have suggested that maybe you are looking to wring more profitability out of the low end that of market. And so as we head into 2006, I was wondering if you could kind of just talk about, even in the face of competition, as you've learned about how competition is affecting you and about how price works with the customer base, how are you looking at that equation heading into 2006? Thanks a lot.

RICK LINDNER: Sure, David.

Let me take LD first, because in LD, we have achieved even prior to the merger, we achieved significant penetration. So our penetration in consumer markets is well into the 60s and in business, is in the upper 40s, pushing 50%. And then you add in AT&T's Corp.'s base on top of that and penetration rates are higher. Realizing where we were in terms of penetration, and looking at that base, we did begin in 2005 to take some selected actions in pricing, particularly around services or plans that were purchased on a stand-alone basis, or that were purchased without monthly recurring charges. So over the last couple of quarters, we've actually seen our LD consumer ARPU go up by about 7-8%. And we're seeing that growth based on those changes, and the customers, we feel it probably has cost us some customers and some number of picks, but the picks that are leaving us are ones that have typically very low monthly usage. So overall, it has been a positive in terms of the revenue growth, and that's why you see us producing over 13% LD revenue growth this quarter.

I think in terms of DSL, well, we're probably in a different -- we're in a different stage in that market for a couple of reasons. One is, we think there is still substantial upside in terms of penetration and secondly, we think it is a critical product for us. We don't say this just lightly. We believe it is the foundation product for us in consumer. It is the product upon which other services are built around. So we'll continue to be aggressive in terms of penetration there. And overall, in pricing, though, you will see in some areas, some price increases on stand alone services, and we will continue to be competitive with particularly our cable competitors and others in the market around bundled prices.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Christopher Larsen from Prudential Equity. Please go ahead.

CHRISTOPHER LARSEN, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP, LLC: Hi, Rick. In the past, you've talked -- mentioned the fact that your after-tax cost of debt is above that of your dividend yield. You can talk a little bit about -- you were aggressive in the fourth quarter -- what are the plans maybe for '06, and you'll probably hash that out more on Tuesday, but if you can give us an idea. And then secondly is, you're talking about the repricing of the AT&T long distance base. What percent of the base is already repriced, is there a way we can think about it is that is already lived through, if you sort of look back and say maybe '04 was the big price-- new price floors. What percent of the base has already been repriced and as we work through that, how will that sort of flow through the revenue line?

RICK LINDNER: Well, I think, Chris, certainly our views around share repurchase haven't changed. And that outlook changes with changes in the marketplace, both in terms of, I guess, things like interest rates, as well as where the share price and dividend yield are. And also change with -- at times with other opportunities we may have to deploy cash in ways we think we will increase value. But overall, our share repurchase thoughts haven't changed, and that is, based on the current environment, we expect to be using our free cash flow, or ar large portion of our free cash flow for share repurchase. And there's nothing really has changed relative to that at this point.

I don't have really good metrics in terms of how to tell you at this point to think about repricing or price impacts in the AT&T base of customers, because it is a little more complex than that. You have to look at the various customer segments and what is happening in each one of those. But if you look at enterprise customers, those customers typically those contracts come up for renewal, typically on a three-year or a three to five-year basis, and as those contracts come up, those are competitive situations, and that will drive the prices to rates that are consistent in the marketplace at that time. What I do believe is that, as I said earlier, the supply and demand factors are starting to provide some floor under pricing, and so even though the base is almost continually rolling over as contracts renew, the floor pricing, I believe, over the next few years, has the opportunity to stabilize at some levels based on just the underlying costs of providing those services. So what you have seen in the past, I think, several quarters has been the natural evolution of that, and that is reduction in the amount of decline in terms of those revenue streams. And I think we will have more time on Tuesday again, with Forrest Miller and Mark Kiefer and others, and we will have a chance to talk and give you some more thoughts about that.

CHRISTOPHER LARSEN: Thanks.

RICH DIETZ: Marie, this will have to be our last question, please.

OPERATOR: Yes, Sir.

RICH DIETZ: No, one more question, Marie.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Blake Bath from Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.

BLAKE BATH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, Rick and Rich. Most of my questions have been asked, maybe I could try two last ones. Just was trying to put the run rate earnings performance in context. Traditionally, the fourth quarter has been a weaker EPS quarter because of wireline and wireless margin pressures, relative to the prior quarters. Is there something that's changed in the seasonality, or were the results really this strong, such that the run rate is even stronger than what we actually saw in the fourth quarter? And I guess the second question, as a bit of a follow-on, Rick, I think I've heard both you and Randall suggest that you believe traditional SBC or lack wireline margins ought to be up in '06, relative to '05. Without stealing any of the thunder from next week, is that a fair characterization? You're still expecting that to be the case? Thanks.

RICK LINDNER: Thanks, Blake. We're glad to get your questions on there. We almost accidentally cut you off.

The fourth quarter, and November December in particular, can be a CFO's -- well, can keep a CFO up at night, let me put it that way, because you work hard at producing results through the year, and sometimes the organization can lose some focus as you get into the end of the year, particularly in this year, when you close a major acquisition in November. And what I would tell you is that the organizations throughout the company in legacy SBC, legacy AT&T, did a terrific job in 2005, and particularly in the fourth quarter, despite a heavy workload, and a lot of distractions around merger closings, did a terrific job of staying focused and producing results.

We are a large momentum kind of business, and what you saw in the fourth quarter, I think, was the result of work throughout the year in terms of taking costs out of the business, work throughout the year in terms of continuing to grow revenues, and there wasn't anything, in answer to your question, there wasn't anything that was seasonal or impacted positively fourth quarter results other than just the momentum we carried into the quarter, and good execution there.

In terms of our regional, our local exchange business, as said earlier, in answer to some of the other questions, we still believe we have opportunities to grow revenues. We're seeing nice revenue growth in consumer. I mean, despite all concerns about competition, our consumer retail revenue is up 4.6% this quarter. It is really a strong result. We're seeing strong results in business as well. Year-over-year, at 1.9%, but that is even a little bit low, because in fourth quarter of last year, we had some large CPE sales, which are traditionally lower margin sales, and so when you look at just the services excluding CPE, the run rates were better than that, and they were driven by terrific growth of small-medium business.

Then you layer on top of that a continued focus we will have on costs, and as I've said before, as you go into next year, we are going to have some additional pressures from pension OPEB costs, we are going to have some pressures from our commercial launch and rollout of Lightspeed as we go into '06, and so that will have some impacts. But I think we have enough positive momentum on the cost side to offset that. So we are -- we feel very good about 2006, and we're going to be excited to tell you more about it on Tuesday.

BLAKE BATH: Great. We will look forward to it.

RICK LINDNER: If I can, I would like to just go ahead and wrap up, and just have a quick closing comment.

This is an extremely busy and a very exciting time for us at the new AT&T. Our results this quarter are probably a little more complex to analyze because of the merger closing. And hopefully, this call will help, and our IR staff is ready to answer your questions and help you through the numbers.

If you get below the numbers, and into the operations, I think you will see we delivered another very strong quarter. We expanded margins in both wireline and wireless. We grew revenues in wireline, consumer and business, for the seventh consecutive quarter. Cingular is on a good track, revenue growth is improved, churn is down, margins have expanded, and we've exceeded expectations and returned value to owners in 200r. On top of that, we're very pleased with our AT&T acquisition. The assets are in great shape, the people are terrific, and together, it is a great way to start 2006.

So with that, I thank you for your interest in the new AT&T. And we look forward to seeing you in person at our conference next Tuesday. Thank you.

RICH DIETZ: Mary, that will end our call for today, thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the AT&T fourth quarter earnings release for 2005. Thank you for participating, and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.] 

   CO
sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060209e21q0012z
  


 HD
 Q2  2002  AT & T  Wireless Services Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,613 words
   PD
23 July 2002
   ET
09:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved.  

   LP
 OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the AT&T wireless second quarter earnings conference call. Today's conference will be in a listening-only mode. Later we will be conducting a Q&A session with the instructions being given at that time. If you should require assistance during today's meeting, please press zero followed by star, and an operator will assist you off line. As reminder, today''s conference is being recorded, and I would like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Holly Ash. Please go ahead.  

   TD
 HOLLY ASH, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, AT&T WIRELSS: Thank you, and good afternoon. This is Holly Ash, Vice President of investor relations for AT&T Wireless Services. I would like to thank everyone for joining us today. On the call with me today are John Zeglis, Chairman and CEO; Mohan Gyani, president mobility services; and Joseph McCabe, CFO & Executive Vice President. John will begin the call by discussing the current environment and provide a brief overview of the quarter. Mohan will delve deeper into our performance for the quarter and discuss our core mobility operation. Joe will offer additional thoughts on our financial performance along with the outlook.  

 Following our executive presentations, we will open the call to questions and be joined by Andre Dahan, President Mobile Multimedia Services; Rod Nelson, Executive Vice President and CTO; Greg Flemmings, Executive Vice President network services; and Lou Shakrin, Executive Vice President, corporate strategy and planning; and others. I would like to point out today's call is being webcast on the AT&T Wireless investor relations website, which is accessible at WWW.ATTWS.com/wirelessIR. The call will also be archived on that site and available for replay shortly after we conclude.  

 I hope everyone had an opportunity to read the press release and our accompanying earnings commentary, which provides detailed financial information on the AT&T Wireless second quarter results. These documents are also available on the wireless website. Before I turn things over to John, I would like to caution all participants that this morning's call may contain forward-looking statements reflecting management's beliefs and assumptions concerning future events based on currently available information. Forward-looking statements include our future financial and operating performance and financial condition, including specific projections and guidance for fiscal year 2002, subscriber growth, the strength of our balance sheet and our liquidity, and needs for additional financing. Listeners are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements, as they are not a guarantee of future performance and remain subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forecasts. A more detailed description of these uncertainties and risk factors is detailed in our filings with the Security and Exchange Commission, including the information under the heading "forward-looking statements in the form 10K for the year ended December 31, 2001." With that, let me now turn things over to John Zeglis. John?  

 JOHN ZEGLIS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, AT&T WIRELSS: Thanks, Holly. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. We are here to report our second quarter results. I'm pleased, not only that Mohan and Joe will share the duty, but we have Andre Rod, Greg, Lou, and some of our other colleagues here to be ready for your questions. We will spend most of our time this afternoon on the hard data and bear drivers and what all that means for how we run or business. As Holly said, in this environment with the whole sector seemingly on the edge of imploding, I can't help but say a few words up front on the state of telecom and our position in it. In a lot of ways we at AT&T Wireless are unlike the firms, and the circumstances being written about in this meltdown period. But in one way we are practically all in the same boat. Given the market's uncertainty about the future of telecom, it is obvious today's investors value cash more than the promise of cash. Your patience for funding far out future cash flows has worn thin; you want higher returns and earlier paybacks, you want us widening margins, accelerating the generation of cash, and hastening forward the day we become free cash flow positive. We at AT&T Wireless hear that message loudly and clearly, and we were executing on it before the current storm over telecom broke. Still the industry crisis is adding an extra intensity to all of our cash affecting and cash generating activities. It's causing us more clearly to prioritize operational and financial goals. Our intense focus on cash means that we will not compensate for [ INAUDIBLE ] misses by taking a chance on a lot of bad customers, nor will we compensate for revenue misses by selling service where there's a high risk we can't collect the bill. These principles and other implications of our focus on cash are on display in our second quarter results and we'll get there in a minute.  

 First, let me also say, up front, there are many other ways that our operations are fundamentally different from the firms that are at the eye of the telecom hurricane. Foremost, we at AT&T Wireless do not face a liquidity challenge. Financial viability, our wherewithal to conduct an ongoing business, is not an issue. We had just under $4 billion of cash on hand at the end of the second quarter. We are forecasting cash on hand at year-end of somewhere between 2.5 and $3 billion. Plus we have committed liquidity in a $2.5 billion line of credit and a $1.2 billion account receivable securitization program. That's over $6 billion of cash and cash commitments going into 2003. On our current plans, we can fund our business and, if we had to, even pay dollar for dollar next wave spectrum prices without raising any more cash until the time we expect to turn free cash flow positive.  

 Nor, are we in the wireless industry in a position as some of the wire line sector are where prices threaten to collapse because of severe overcapacity. Quite the contrary. We are racing to serve exploding usage and are spending substantial sums to deploy sufficient capacity. This does have implications for the cash conscious business. Namely we not build capacity for not paying minutes or unprofitable customers. But we don't face price downs from companies going in and out of bankruptcy, bringing under-utilized capacity to market on written-down assets. Nor, is there only a future of commoditized voice service in front of us. We can and we will give our customers a wireless data and multi media future. But, one more time, the cash oriented company builds and promotes and upgrades its data network only as demand for the new services appears, which is precisely the plan add AT&T Wireless.  

 Those, then are the practices and policies of a company responding to the capital market's new dynamics of valuation. We are no stranger to these policies. They have led us, since our conception, to maintain a strong balance sheet and to pursue high value customer strategies. Now, more than ever they are apparent in our results.  

 Moving a step closer to the numbers, our second quarter was by and large a study in how well we are doing at serving existing customers against some of the challenges we face in attracting profitable new customers. The best source for building cash in a business of 20 million subscribers is from that very large base of incumbent customers. During the second quarter we did some of our best work here. We did well holding on to our customers, churn was down again to 2.4%. We inched up the average revenue we received from each of our customers. RPU was $60.40 after dipping to $58.60 in the first quarter. We held a tight control over the cost of serving these customers. Cash cost per unit, CCPU, was $31.41 despite an increase in average minutes of use, along with someone-time charges.  

 On the other hand, acquiring good quality new customers gets harder each period. We had 417,000 net adds in the second quarter, against expectations of well over half a million. And they were more expensive. CPGA was up to 383, as our principal reseller, Worldcom, began to exit the business and we had fewer gross adds to spread over our fixed marketing costs. All in, the progress with existing customers offset the higher cost of attracting new ones, and we raid record EBIT. Our first billion dollar quarter at a billion, 23 million, generated from an EBITDA margin of 28.2%, also our best ever.  

 Let me unpack these numbers a little further. Beginning with customers, we ended the period with 19.95 million customers against 16.4 million last year at this time, a 21.6% increase. In the second quarter, we had 417,000 net adds against our guidance of 550,000. Our company sales channels performed pretty well. Almost exactly as we thought they would when we forecast the 550,000. We continue to get better at retaining our customers. The total churn of 2.4% was the best we've had in three years. Virtually the entire shortfall from our net add guidance came from our reseller channel. Essentially all of that shortfall was from Worldcom. Worldcom has been our largest reseller, accounting for a mid-single digit percentage of our total base of subscribers. The value to AT&T Wireless has been good, though we sold the minutes at a wholesale discount, Worldcom customers came to our network at low acquisition costs, at least low to us, and with high usage.  

 When Worldcom announced its exit from wireless resale, two things began to happen. Worldcom's gross adds slowed significantly, and its de-activations picked up considerably. As a result, Worldcom accounted for a substantial number of negative net additions for the quarter. Had Worldcom, instead, performed like it did in the first quarter, we would have been right on the money with our net adds. The entire swing is accounted for by the difference between the expected positive, versus the actual negative net adds from Worldcom.  

 As it is, we now have around 600,000 Worldcom wireless customers on our network and at risk. We have recently concluded agreement with Worldcom to move most of those customers to AT&T Wireless, but we'll only pay for the good ones actually left on our network after about four months' time. We won't be able to convert all of the Worldcom customers to the AT&T Wireless subscribers, actually, because of credit risks, we wouldn't want them all. Their continued de-activations, matched against virtually no new Worldcom customers coming in, will put pressure on our net adds for the balance of the year. Add to that the slower growth in the industry's overall net adds for the year, 14 to 15 million now expected instead of the 19 to 20 million forecast when the year began, and we are going to have to bring down our net add guidance by that same 20% reduction in anticipated industry growth. Initially expected to increase our 18 million beginning customers by 20%, including Telecorps subscribers. Now we'll take 20% off that 20% and look to increase customers by about 16%. That means net adds will be on the order of two to 2.2 million, with some possible down side, depending how we do converting Worldcom's customers. Even if we end up missing a few net adds, we will try to make up the revenue and the EBITDA elsewhere, so we are not changing guidance for those measures.  

 Turning to revenue. With more customers and higher usage per customer, we saw some pleasing top line growth in the second quarter. Total service revenue was 3.625 billion for the quarter. That's 16% growth over the second quarter of last year, and a 8% increase in revenue sequentially from the first quarter of this year. RPU was 60.40 in the second quarter against 63.80 a year ago. In other words a 5.3% decline. Second quarter RPU was, nevertheless, up by $1.80 or 3% from the first quarter when we dropped below $60 to the 58.60 mark.  

 The year-over-year decline is entirely accounted for by price reductions. Second quarter average minutes of use rose to 482, compared to 383 in the second quarter last year. The sequential increase in RPU comes partly from a predictable second quarter seasonality, plus a little bit from volume. Usage per subscriber increased 50 minutes from the first quarter, and also maybe a little bit from the beginnings of our upward pricing activity around the edges of our service, like shortening the off-peak period by an hour at each end.  

 Now to costs. One of the company's strongest performance in this quarter was our control over the costs of serving incumbent customers. Cash costs per unit was $31.40. That is 4% below the second quarter of last year, even though we are, on average, transporting almost 100 more minutes per customer. A 26% increase in average customer usage. What's more we have about 80 cents of one-time charges in our second quarter CCPU, without which we would have been lower than this year's first quarter, too. Although we have done a good job of reducing the cost per minute on our network the high traffic volumes mean that network expense is adding to our CCPU, quarter-over-quarter. The unit cost reductions came this period from lower per-subscriber expenses for roaming, for customer care, and for information technology.  

 The cost of adding new customers is more challenging. Our cost per gross add, CPGA, picked up from the first carrot, this time to $383, due entirely to the lower volume of gross adds from Worldcom. We are 15.4% above last year's CPGA and 4.4% above the first quarter of this year. We are pulling levers that bring down CPGA in our end user channels. Without Worldcom's inexpensive gross adds, with slowing industry growth, and given our unwaiving focus on acquiring high quality customers, our CPGA and traditional channels will remain under pressure for the balance of the year.  

 And lastly, EBITDA. Higher revenue and a lower CCPU offset our CPGA increase, and we had our best every quarter for EBITDA. $1.023 billion. That's a 19.2% increase over last year's second quarter and a 24.4% increase over this year's first quarter. EBITDA margin was 28.2%, also our best ever, ahead of 27.5% a year ago and 24.5% in the first quarter. In that billion 23 million are reserves for all but 13 million of the Worldcom wholesale revenue still owed to us, as well as the last few millions for shutting down our wireless aviation division. Without those nonrecurring items we would have made 8 billion one. And so, all together, at the year's halfway point, we are not changing EBITDA and revenue guidance for the full year, and our new guidance for customers is around 16% growth.  

 Now, moving on to a couple strategic matters. Our principal strategy for profitable growth over the longer term is deployment of a world standard next generation GSM/GPRS network, along with the multi media application that that technology will support. My words here can be relatively brief, because we are on schedule and on budget in this activity. As of this moment we have GSM/GPRS equipment in 97% of our base stations throughout our pre telecorp footprint. We will have equipment in 100% of those base stations before the third quarter ends.  

 We have launched commercial service in markets comprising 54% of the footprint; by early fourth quarter we expect to be launched in over 90% of the footprint, and all of it should be launched by year-end. The GSM/GPRS buildout will begin in fixed telecorp markets this year, with initial commercial launches and the remaining build-out scheduled throughout 2003. Our costs are holding at around $15 per pop, and indeed our capital spending controls have been so successful throughout the business that we are able to bring down Cap-X guidance for the year by another $200 million to 5.1 billion in total, and still accomplish all we set out to do. We have GSM roaming agreements with 70 of the world's carriers and have implemented 31 of them both for our customers to roam in countries beyond the United States, including most of western Europe, and our partner's customers to roam on AT&T Wireless when they are in in the United States. Our goal is 100 agreements by year-end.  

 Customer additions to our GSM network are still modest in the tens of thousands. We won't ramp higher until the fourth quarter when the larger GSM service areas will be available to us. Among those modest GSM additions so far, we continue to out-perform our plan for customers who also sign up for our GPRS, M-Mode data service. The $7.99 bulldog plan is, by far, the most popular election.  

 We continue to introduce new data services and applications that will let customers take advantage of the GPRS network. For consumers we recently launched our first wave of location services led by friend finder and go to. For businesses we have GPRS laptop modem cards in the sales channels. In June we introduced a blackberry with GSM voice and GPRS data, and we also launched office online.  

 For both business and consumers we have introduced billing on behalf of services for AT&T Wireless subscribers and merchants who want to do business over our network, and have purchases billed to our customer's wireless statement or to a credit card. We are also well begun on installing edge radios in our base stations with a higher data speed than the larger data capacity when expect our business customers will need in the future. Edge should be in a position throughout the network by mid-2003.  

 Finally on our 2 G and 2.5 G networks, SMS traffic continues to build as does monthly SMS revenue. We believe we are transporting more text messages now than any other carrier in the industry. That concludes the strategic update.  

 I do want to say, also, that the completion of our GSM network has important implications for accelerating our generation of cash. The new network will be in place, but lightly loaded going into next year. That fact, plus our ability to reduce TDMA capacity as customers churn, means we can bring down 2003 Cap-X considerably from this year's high water mark.  

 In the past, we have seen some unrealistically large numbers suggested for our 2003 Cap-X in some of your models. Recently, though there seems to be some convergence down around $4 billion. We are still in the planning stages, of course, but we can say even at this early point that we are comfortable with 4 billion as the absolute ceiling. The maximum we would spend in 2003. And we are hard at work to determine how much less than $4 billion we'll have to invest. Much more on that as we close in on 2003 plans and have more visibility on the industry's likely growth patterns for next year. I'll do a wrap-up in a few minutes. Let's ask Mohan to come in for a deeper dive on operations.  

 MOHAN GUANI, PRESIDENT MOBILITY SERVICES, AT&T WIRELSS: Thank you, John. Good afternoon. Let me start by saying that we are pleased with the solid quarter we posted despite a slow economy, some of the fiercest competition our industry has sustained for quite some time, and the fallout of a fairly sizeable distribution channel for us, Worldcom, we continue to operate and deliver superior results under all the pressure the market place throws our way. Whether it was our wireless usage manager program that offered limited service useage, a previous unsatisfactory distribution channel, or now Worldcom, we have absorbed each respective impact and delivered on our profitability objective quarter after quarter and year after year. Nevertheless, we realize the kind of industry and environment we are in today, even compared to just three months ago, is quite different. Therefore, we have heightened even more of our focus on generating positive cash flow.  

 Let's get into the details by starting with customers. The good news on our customer base is this, we are still standing strong on our philosophy of adding quality post paid customers to the mix. We did not change unprofitable customers in the credit challenged segment. We did not lower credit standards. We kept the focus on adding quality, post paid subscribers. For instance, our post paid net adds, excluding resellers from the mix, were up slightly over prior year period. Nor did we try to ramp up on prepaid just to inflate our sub growth. Prepaid continues to be just a mid-single digit set of our overall subscriber base.  

 Let me take a moment and talk about our wholesale subscriber business. Post paid resellers and total made up a mid-single digit percent of our overall subscriber base at the end of the second quarter. Of this amount, Worldcom makes up the bulk. As John mentioned earlier, we did come to an understanding with Worldcom to convert many of these customers to our systems. This will allow us to bring over high quality and profitable Worldcom customers. Though this is good news, it is difficult for us to tell which customers from within their base are sustainable, until we get further into the conversion process. Clearly the percentage of reseller will continue to decline over the coming months as we convert Worldcom subscribers. At the same time face higher levels of de-activations from their subscribers.  

 Reseller reactions, competitive pressures, economic uncertain, and usual summer seasonality will place added pressure on subscriber growth this year, and particularly in the third quarter. We are currently looking into mechanisms we can put into motion in order to replace the customers we will lose from our resale channel. We expect some of them to go into effect this quarter. They will have limited short-term impact. Thus the cause of anticipated reseller de-acts, as Worldcom continues to work its way through our system and our disciplined approach to running the business we believe net adds in the third quarter will likely be below water mark for the year. We expect net adds to be significantly lower than the second quarter of this year.  

 Now, let me turn to churn. Churn is a great story for this quarter as our focus on growth through customer retention continues to pay off. The 2.4% total churn we delivered for the second quarter not only represents improvements sequentially in year-over-year, but also one of the best quarters we have ever posted. What's more impressive is that both total and post paid churn would have been better without the impact of the increase worldcom de-activations. Clearly our company-wide churn reduction efforts, and in particular the focus on right siding the plans for existing customer base and increasing the percentage of our customer base on contract are paying off. We are growing our subscriber base in a smarter and more cost efficient manner. While the result in the interim is pressure on RPU, we feel that it is worth the longer term benefits to do right by our customers. We will continue to take this approach in our ongoing efforts to manage churn.  

 Now, despite the churn improvement this quarter, realistically we expect to see it pick up as we move forward through the year due to a continued reduction in reseller subscribers as a result of the Worldcom situation. Competition continues to be fierce, and many of our revenue enhancement programs have begun to kick in. I know that some of you have asked about our recent changes to customer rate plans and the associated opt-out that allows our customers to leave existing contracts if they are dissatisfied with the rate changes we are implementing. While we recognize it will impact churn, it is in line with our customer friendly philosophy. The more important message you should be taking away from this is we are serious about holding the line on pricing. We do not believe that we are yet to see the toughest part of churn. In fact we believe we are passed the toughest part. We do not expect it to be above the 3% level that you saw last year.  

 Let me move on to RPU. RPU is in line with our expectations and increased slightly over the first quarter to $60.40. The increase was due in most part to seasonality associated with roaming traffic. From a year-over-year perspective RPU continues to be negatively affected by less breakage from our calling plans as pricing drops and minutes get larger due to competitive forces. Continued migration of existing customers to current promotions in an effort to right size their calling plans which are usually at a lower price point. The ongoing effects of the economy with customers managing their buckets of minutes more carefully and new customers coming on board and opting for lower price rate plans. Despite the competitive pressure, we expect to hold RPU close to current levels for the remainder of the year as we begin to see the benefits of our initiatives. Some of these include the launch of our new international calling plans that we shared with you at the end of last quarter. While it's too soon to tell the benefits from the revenue enhancement initiatives that were launched in the second quarter of '02, we do expect them to somewhat offset pricing pressures in the second half of the year.  

 Let me turn to minutes per use. Minutes of use for average subscriber continue to rise. For the quarter MOUs per average subscriber increased to an all-time high of 482 a 26% increase over the same period last year, and a 12% increase over the first quarter. The higher minutes of use were driven by customers using their mobile phone more and more as they recognize the value proposition of their wireless plans. The higher MOUs are were impacted by seasonably higher roaming traffic in the quarter. The increase was due in part to telecorp being included in the results for the full quarter, given their customers had higher MOUs per subscriber relative to the rest of the company. The good news bad news story here is that people are relying more and more on their wireless phone to communicate. Yet, as carriers we need to do a better job of turning that into profitable revenue generation. Assuming ongoing pricing pressures and increasing customer acceptance, we expect to see minutes of use continue to increase as we move forward.  

 Let's now turn to cash flow. You heard us talk a lot about our focus on cash flow. This quarter's EBITDA performance of over 1 billion, which was negatively impacted by approximately 38 million due to Worldcom and the shutdown of our aviation unit lends support to the continued successful attention we are giving to this very important area in our business. As we move forward, we will continue to be cognizant and receptive of what the capital markets are telling us. Our focus on cash flow will increase more than ever, and we are concentrating on getting to free cash flow even faster. We will continue to target high quality of profitable subscribers and pay less and less attention to simply acquiring customers that are asked to post large net add numbers. Essentially this means our job just got tougher. We need to relook how we approach the offers on services that we go to market with. Our business models will need to evolve so they are in line with changing realities or cost focus will be more critical than ever.  

 Let me turn to cost next, and start with cash cost per user. CCPU at $31.40 represented an improvement on a year-over-year basis and was slightly higher on a sequential basis. If you adjust for the one time impact from Worldcom, CCPU actually improved year-over-year and sequentially. The improvement over last year was a result of our continued efforts to lower our expense and manage our GNA and customer retention costs. As of the second quarter [INAUDIBLE] as a percent of service revenues was less than 10%, or over 100 basis points down from the prior period last year.  

 Another significant driver of the reduction in CCPU was our focus on costs. For example, our I.T. costs on a per user basis were down over 25%. The primary drivers include improvement in back office infrastructure costs and the ability to maintain a flat head count despite rapid growth in the business. As we move forward we expect CCPU could trend slightly upward during the rest of the year as a result of the continued spending on customer retention efforts, seasonally higher roaming expenses, and anticipated increases in usage.  

 Let me move to the next important metric on the expense side, cost per gross add or CPGA. CPGA for the quarter came in higher than we expected, despite the fact that EBITDA also came in much higher. Specifically while our CPGA may have increased on a year-over-year basis, our acquisition expenses in aggregate were in line with our expectations and did not increase at same rate.  

 Let me dig deeper into the drivers that impacted CPGA in the quarter. First, field gross adds in the quarter. The fixed components of CPGA were higher in the second quarter because there were fewer gross adds than we had last year, over which relatively fixed costs such as man power, certain portions of advertising, and retail facilities expenses could be spread. Second, increases in variable cost components such as commissions and equipment subsidies both continue to being impacted by competitive forces within the industry, particularly in the indirect acquisition channels. Third, telecorp's full quarter impact of higher acquisition costs, since they are still being integrated and have a higher CPGA than the rest of the company. Fourth, the incremental advertising expenses associated with the launch of [INAUDIBLE].  

 While we would like to see CPGA lower, we do not get overly concerned with any one metric. We understand the reasons and will be working to improve them as we move forward. Specifically we intend to focus on improving our aggregate cost to acquire a new subscriber. For example, we would look to improve equipment incentives as we move to GSM and greater economies of scale and leverage, favorable and set pricing, managed commission levels both within our direct and indirect channels as we move forward. Shift the number of subscribers we add towards the lower cost channels. Nevertheless in the short-term, we will see increased measure on CPGA due to the following. Continued level of fixed cost spread over lower volumes. A significant reduction in the number of very low cost reseller gross adds. Increased expenses associated with replacing those gross adds to higher acquisition cost channels. Continued impact from higher telecorp CPGA until we fully integrate them into our operations.  

 Most importantly, however, I want to leave you with the message that we won't run the business in a manner that would compromise our strategic and profitability objectives just so we can make our CPGA number look good. I will remind you we are neither managing this business for any one metric, nor are we managing to make any one quarter. Our focus is for sustained growth and overall profitability for the future.  

 Let me touch on one more point regarding our EBITDA. John already indicated that we are maintaining our EBITDA guidance for the full year. I know some of you are probably questioning why that guidance would not increase, given the reduction in subscriber growth guidance for the year. It's an excellent question, so let me take a moment and explain. Some of the reduction in our subscriber growth can be attributed to the loss of existing reselling subs as they will churn at a faster rate. This will adversely impact EBITDA by the amount of cash that we expected the last subs to generate for the balance of 2002. Additionally some of the net add reductions is due to the loss of reseller subscribers that we were expecting to come on board during the second half of the year. Reseller subscribers have a very low CPGA to us. The amount of money we would have saved due to reduced acquisition expenses is not meaningful. In fact the more significant impact here is that we will have to try and replace those customers through higher cost acquisition channels or lose potential revenue.  

 Yet another adverse impact to our EBITDA from the Worldcom subscribers will arise from any costs that we pay to acquire the customers. So the net/net is this. The impact from Worldcom and the one-time hits we absorbed in the second quarter have an adverse impact on our EBITDA for the full year that more than offsets any benefit we get from reduced acquisition expenses related to lower subscriber growth. Despite this, we are maintaining our full year guidance for EBITDA growth as we plan to absorb these impacts within our current guidance of mid to low 20% growth.  

 Let's shift gears and take a moment to discuss Cap-X. Total capital spending in the second quarter was 866 million. As we have explained before, most of the total capital spending in 2002 will be capital for our next generation network. The small portion going toward spending on PDMA capacity. As our income spending is timed with our market launches, we expect Cap-X for 2002 to be second half loaded. We are still on time and on budget with our GSM/GPRS rollout for this year.  

 Finally, we now believe at this point we will be able to lower our Cap-X spending for 2002 by $200 million due to slower subscriber growth and tighter controls on spending. This effort is yet another example of the intense focus we have on generating positive cash flow.  

 Before I finish, I would like to turn my attention to Telecorps for just a brief moment. I am pleased to say that things are moving along very nicely with it, both in terms of integration, as well as operations. We are on plan and on track for the Telecorp integration. We expect to have the brand and rate plan offers converted to AT&T Wireless in the next month or two. Then we will move expeditiously toward full integration of Telecorps' system and back office. We expect that to be completed early next year.  

 In conclusion the overriding message for the quarter is continued solid execution. We have been through rough patches before, and managed very well through those issues. Challenges such as Worldcom, a tough economy and fierce competition in our industry are real. But they do not change our view as to the inevitable power and customer acceptance of wireless communications. We work hard each and every day to implement better ways to run our business more efficiently. The good news continues to be the fact that we operate and deliver under all the pressure the market place throws our way. That is why we have been able to absorb the impact and deliver on our profitability objectives. Let me turn it over to Joe for his final comments.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR., CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, AT&T WIRELSS: Thanks. I'm going to cover the highlights below EBITDA that produced our net income, review our liquidity position, and close with a summary of the guidance you just heard from John and Mohan. As they both emphasized in their remarks our second quarter was a solid one. Our results further demonstrate our focus on balanced growth and cash flow management and were accomplished with a conservative approach to running the business.  

 Let's start with our loss from continuing operations available to common shareholderers in the quarter. It was $8 million or zero cents a share. Basically a break-even quarter. This was in line with analyst consensus, even though it includes a number of one-time financial charges that impacted EBITDA and net income. The $8 million loss loss compares with income of $309 million dollars, or 12 cents per share in the second quarter of 2001. The year-over-year decrease can be accounted for by a one-time gain of $298 million recorded in the quarter quarter of 2001 from the sale of our interest in Japan telecom. That's too easy an explanation. Let's go through some of the major pluses and minuses.  

 On the positive side, our EBITDA grew $164 million, or 19% in the second quarter, compared with the same period last year. This is a direct result of our continuing focus on profitable growth. The quarter's EBITDA was negatively impacted by two events, worldcom's exit from the wireless reseller business which resulted in a $57 million impact, and the winding down of our aviation operations which resulted in a $21 million charge. It's important to note that we have minimized our financial exposure to Worldcom's problems. We have reserves that cover all but $15 million of the account receivable balance as of June 30th. This is one example of our conservative approach to running our business.  

 Another positive in the quarter is the benefit of no longer amortizing the goodwill and license balances; effective January 1, 2002 we adopted FAS 142. Offsetting the positive impacts for the quarter were lower earnings from our equity investments. There are two reasons for the lower earnings when you compare to the same quarter of 2001. First, during this quarter we booked a $74 million after tax charge for the impairment of one of our domestic equity investments. Second, last year, as I just said we had the gain from the sale of our Japan telecom investment.  

 The second quarter impairment charge is another example of our conservative approach. We have a policy on investment values and have consistently followed it in this quarter and past quarters. The balance of the differences between the two quarters can understandably be attributed to the change in our debt position which affected our interest expense, the increase in property plant equipment balances which explains the increase in depreciation, and the lower provision for income taxes due to lower pre tax income and a lower effective tax rate.  

 Speaking of property plant and equipment, I want to make a few points about our capitalization policy. We capitalize costs in strict conformance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our policy requires that the capitalized costs have an useful life of greater than one year and meet a minimum dollar threshold. An example of this in our conservative stands is PCs. We do not capitalize individual PCs unless they have a value greater than $10,000. As you can imagine not many meet this criteria. Costs that we capitalized included the purchase of the fixed asset, purchase of the development of software for internal use, fixed asset installation costs, the cost of addition, improvements or expansions to fixed assets. In addition, when we are in the process of building or developing a capital asset, we capitalize direct labor costs and interest expense. Capitalization ceases once a project is complete. All capitalized costs are amortized over the useful lives of the related assets and we review them for impairment as required. Net income available to the common shareholders which was $19 million or 1 cents per share in the second quarter included a $27 million after-tax gain on the disposal of discontinued fixed wireless operations.  

 We are ahead of schedule and doing slightly better than our original cost estimates for the exit of this business which we expect to have completed by the third quarter. Net income available to the common stockholders in the second quarter was $229 million or 9 cents a share and included the Japan telecom gain that I have already mentioned. Let me close-out the income statement discussion by saying we are pleased with the progress we are making towards positive net income.  

 Turning to our balance sheet and our liquidity position. We continue to have one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry and we have taken steps to insure that we are well funded. Let's start with our credit ratios. We ended the second quarter with a net debt position of $7 billion. At the end of the second quarter our net debt to the last 12 months EBITDA ratio was 2.1. It improved from the first quarter ratio which was 2.2. We believe this is a very strong ratio for mid-triple-B company. As many of you know throughout all the turmoil in the telecom industry, the rating agencies have maintained our debt rating at a mid-triple B.  

 We have done a very good job on key working capital components. Our net account receivable balance at the end of June 30th was down slightly from year-end 2001. Our inventory balance was essentially flat with year-end 2001. These reflect our efforts of continuing focus on cash management. This focused on balanced growth and cash resulted in a quarter nearing free cash flow positive.  

 Now to liquidity. From a funding perspective, we are in an excellent position to continue to growth business and implement our strategic initiatives. We had a cash position of $3.8 billion at the end of the second quarter, in addition to the cash on hand, we have a $2.5 billion bank credit facility which backs up our commercial paper program. $1.25 billion of it expires in March of 2003 and $1.25 billion billion expires in 2006. The credit rating does not impact the availability of these funds. We have also put in place a $1.2 billion dollar accounts receivable securitization program. The banks have the option to terminate this facility if our credit rating drops three levels below our current rating, and I think you'd agree that's an unlikely scenario given the strong credit ratios I just mentioned. We have not issued any securities under either of these programs to date. We don't have any near term financing needs since our first debt maturity is $250 million in 2005. Bottom line, as of today, we have access to $7.5 billion of funding to grow the business and deliver on this strategy.  

 Now, let me move to our guidance for 2002, and our guidance for capital spending in 2003, but before I go into individuals areas, a word about Worldcom. We have incorporated our best estimates of the Worldcom impact. The final impact of the Worldcom customer base is an important contributor to meeting the guidance. The final cost of the customer base, the number of de-activations the number of customers converted and the cost of doing so, and the ongoing costs will impact our subscribers, service revenues, and EBITDA growth numbers. So with that in mind let's start with subscriber growth.  

 We are bringing down our guidance for subscriber growth in 2002 in line with the 20% decline in estimates for the overall industry growth in subscribers this year. We now expect our net adds for the year to be in the range of 2 to 2.2 million, in addition to the 839,000 subscribers added with Telecorps. For a total growth of 2.8 to 3 million subscribers in 2002. The current outlook equates to approximately a 16% growth in subscribers from our year-end 2001 base of 18 million customers. The lower end of this range for expected net adds is at some risk, again depending on the outcome of Worldcom subscribers.  

 Now service revenue. We are not changing our guidance for mid-teens percentage growth in service growth revenues in 2002. Key to hitting this is the outcome of Worldcom and the success of our pricing action in other revenue enhancement initiatives. Worldcom represented a low single digit percent of our service revenue during the second quarter. The outcome of Worldcom is important as we go forward.  

 We have also received some questions about the potential impact of the recent decision by the is FCC related to the Sprint AT&T case on the ability of Sprint to collect from AT&T access charges for terminating long distance calls. For us the answer is very simple: There's no retroactive or perspective impact on us at all because we do not record revenues for terminating long distance calls from the long distance carriers.  

 Moving to EBITDA we are not changing our guidance for EBITDA growth at a percentage rate in the low to mid-20s. We are currently on track to deliver an EBITDA at -- EBITDA growth at the lower end of this range. Again the successful transition of world come will be an important factor in our ability to hit the EBITDA target.  

 Lastly Cap-X. We are reducing 2002 Cap-X by 200 million. We are able to accomplish this reduction because of the reduction in subscribers and continued tight management of spending. The reduction does not jeopardize our current network quality or the buildout of the GSM/GPRS network. The quality of our network has never been better, and the GSM/GPRS buildout continues on schedule and on budget.  

 Looking out to 2003, we have said that 2001 and 2002 would be the high water marks of our capital spending as we continued to improve the quality and capacity of the 2G network, and at the same time put in place our 2.5 G network. As we go into 2003, we have a solid 2G network with lots of capacity to handle customers that need voice and SMS. We will also have a solid 2.5 G network that is likely loaded for customers who are looking for access to data. Optimizing the customer loading on the two networks will allow us to significantly reduce the capital expenditures from 2002. Our current projection is that 2003 Cap-X will be no higher than $4 billion. As we work the rest of the components of free cash flow meaning revenues, EBITDA, working interest, we will continue to work to determine how much less than the $4 billion we can invest in 2003. We will update you on all of the 2003 metrics in January. For now you can take it to the bank that our capital spending will not be higher than $4 billion in 2003. With that I'll turn it back to John for a quick wrap-up.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Well, we have gone long again. Maybe some quarter we'll be playing into a settle down telecom sector and we can get in and out of these discussions faster. For now we do think it's important that you hear it all and, in return we'll add some minutes to question time.  

 I do want to wrap-up on one matter, and that's the C word, consolidation. Which is never very far from the surface in discussions like these, and which is the subject of ever more frequent criss-crossing rumors. You know I can't say much, in fact I can only repeat an abbreviated version of what I said to you on the last call. Namely, there are synergies to be had with some such transactions. We are alert to the possibilities. We are more than alert, we are studied in them. If all wireless carriers had our balance sheet and our independence, we would be faster at create an industry structure that might capture some of these synergies. Others are impaired or entangled, and we are not about to do something just for the sake of getting so-called consolidation ruling; we will be a player only if it improves our shareholder value against the considerable value we believe we are creating in our current form.  

 That's it for the prepared remarks. We will go to questions. I'll be the ring master, but I believe Holly and maybe the operator has instructions on how to get your questions into cue.  

 HOLLY ASH: Thank you, John. Before we move into the Q&A session I would like to add in our continuing effort to update everyone on our rollout in GSM/GPRS, we will hold a conference call on Monday, July 29th with Greg, Executive Vice President network operations; Greg will give a presentation on our network progress and strategy and we will open it up for questions afterwards. Further information regarding this call will be released later today.  

 In just a moment I'll ask the operator to review the procedures for asking questions. I would like to ask those on the call to limit your questions to no more than one or two per person so we can accommodate as many as possible. Joining me on the Q&A are John, Mohan, and Joe, as well as Andre Dahan, Rod Nelson, Greg Clemmins, and Lou Shankrin. Operator, would you please provide the instructions for asking a question?  

 OPERATOR: Certainly. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to ask a question please depress the one on your telephone keypad; you will hear a tone that indicates you have been placed in cue. You may remove yourself from cue at any time by pressing the pound key. We also ask if you are using a speaker phone, you please pick up the hand set before depressing the numbers. Our first question comes from Louise Carvalhoe with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.  

 LOUISE CARVALHOE, MORGAN STANLEY: One is on bad debt expenses. If you can update us how big it is relative to revenues? And the second on the Worldcom subscribers, on your base case, how many Worldcom subscribers do you expect to convert of the 600,000? Very good job on the guidance for Cap-X and '03. Thanks.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Joe, why don't you take the bad debt.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: In the second quarter the bad debt was slightly below 4% which was a significant improvement compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Just a slight uptick -- I'm sorry a slight uptick from the second quarter of last year. Significant improvement from the first quarter of this year, and, as I said earlier, it included over $50 million associated with Worldcom. So excellent progress in our bad debt.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: And on the Worldcom customers, we really aren't in a position to make estimates for you right now. We have no experience with these customers. We are adding the uncertainty to a couple of of the guidances that we spoke to because of that. I will tell you we have structured this in a way we aren't going to be paying for bad customers or customers that end up at the end of the period not on our network. It is a very attractive price to us for the customers relative to having to go out and replace them at our current CPGA run rate.  

 LOUISE CARVALHOE: Thank you.  

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Steven Yannis. One moment.  

 STEVEN YANNIS: Hi. Thanks.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Hi, Steve.  

 STEVEN YANNIS: Hey, just two clarifications. One: the 200 million that you are not spending this year, I just want to hear you correctly, some of it was lower subs, but some of it is more efficiency, or is it somewhat of a shifting to next year?  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: The former. Both. Some lower subs and some efficiency.  

 STEVEN YANNIS: Right.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Steve, specifically to your question it is not a shifting from this year into next year. It's true savings.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Getting more out of the dollar, Steve. And some fewer minutes because of fewer customers.  

 STEVEN YANNIS: I just wanted -- one small follow-up. On SMS you say you carry more than any other carrier. I think you said a quarter of RPU, has that started to budge at all?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: I said last time we were coming up on a quarter of RPU, now we are past a quarter of RPU. So lets let it sit there.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Thanks, Steve.  

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Collette Flemming with UBS Warburg, please go ahead.  

 COLLETTE FLEMMING, UBS WARBURG: Yes. Just a quick follow-up on the Worldcom. How exactly is that going to be booked when you purchase those customers? Since you already own them, I assume that, you know your RPU woo slightly pick up did did -- particular up you would get the full retail amount. Would you be flowing the cost of that through the CPGA? Thanks.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Good question, Colette. Yes as we convert the customers to AT&T Wireless we'll get the retail price versus the wholesale price. So depending on the final resolution of them, we'll see what impact it has. As far as the booking, right now we are in discussions with PWC on the correct booking. Current thinking is most likely it would be in our cash cluster users. Something like a retention cost. But there's also a possibility it might be an offset for revenue based on the deal. As we announce the third quarter, we'll let you know exactly how it was booked.  

 COLLETTE FLEMMING: Just a quick follow-up on that. Could you give us an idea of just to quantify somewhat what your retention is running at? About what percent of your subscriber base is upgrading hand sets in a given quarter?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Collete, two things. One: I am not able to answer that question for you. On the Worldcom, if I can just close it out. I wouldn't automatically assume that if Worldcom subs based on your knowledge was a X that they simply come over to X and we get the difference between the wholesale and the retail. We are not sure whether the people are on the right price plan. We might have to migrate them onto price plans that we think make sense for them. So it could be an impact on the RPU as a result of that.  

 COLLETTE FLEMMING: Thanks  

 OPERATOR: Next we have Ben Abrabomitz with Jefferies and Company. Please go ahead.  

 BEN ABRABOMITZ, JEFFERIES AND COMPANY: A quick clarification on the first quarter. You said primarily a lot of the shortfall was from Worldcom in terms of the net adds. If we look at -- if the churn was a little bit lower than we anticipated and the lower subs, you know, if we back out numbers, that looks like a 300 plus thousand gross add shortfall. I'm trying to get a little clarification. Is most of that from Worldcom?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Let me take a shot at what I think you are going with this. We were referring to this on a net add basis. On a net add basis, the shortfall is pretty much attributable to Worldcom. On the other hand if your question, because your math will lead you there, if you had lower churn than we thought, then your gross add must have been lower in order for you to come in on the whole thing. You are right, we did see a softening in gross adds on our own channel. But we made it up through the lower churn.  

 BEN ABRABOMITZ: So, okay. So the primary shortfall on the gross adds is not necessarily Worldcom?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Um -- that is correct.  

 BEN ABRABOMITZ: Okay. Just real quick. Is Worldcom in your churn rate, then?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Yes.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Yes. It's in the world -- the difference between the 550 and the 417 is the difference between positive Worldcom net adds in the first quarter and the negative net in the second quarter. On beyond that is this additional gross adds from our channels that you and Mohan were discussing.  

 BEN ABRABOMITZ: Okay.  

 MOHAN GUANI: You shouldn't find that surprising what we just talked about that softness is in part why we are saying we need to bring our guidance down to where we see the industry guidance going.  

 BEN ABRABOMITZ: Okay. Thank you.  

 OPERATOR: And our next question comes from David Janozol with Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.  

 LINDA MUCHLER, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi it's actually Linda Muchler. Two questions. Could you comment on the trends in breakage, you know, do you have a percentage of breakage on the plans? The minutes of use growth, obviously, continues to be very strong. And obviously the carriers aren't getting a whole lot of RPU pick up from that. Do you have any sense of where you think the minutes of use are going?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Two things on the breakage I'm not going to be able to give you a specific answer other than to tell you yes, in fact we are seeing less breakage than we used to see and that's part of the pressure on RPU we have to deal with. In terms of minutes of use and where they are going I would say today we say to you we continue to expect them to increase. We are not seeing any slow down in the increase of minutes of use.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Does that get it for you, Linda?  

 LINDA MUCHLER: Yep, thanks.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Okay.  

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from John Benchy with Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Hi, John.  

 JOHN BENCHY, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, guys. Question for you. Sort of financial goals in this drive towards cash. When on do you expect to be free cash flow positive? And when do you expect to be net income positive?  

 MOHAN GUANI: Um -- John, what we have told everybody is free cash flow positive on a run rate basis happens somewhere in the back half of 2003 as it begins to turn into 2004. You know, whether this emphasis we have on the Cap-X reduction next year can improve that, we'll have to plan through the fall before we can be anymore specific than that.  

 JOHN BENCHY: And would net income follow in a similar timeframe, or lag that by a quarter or two?  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Well, actually, John if you take a look this quarter was pretty -- basically positive break-even net income. And I think if you model out for the balance of these next two quarters, we are not expecting a significant change from that.  

 JOHN BENCHY: Well, let's hope positive free cash flow does more for you than it does for Bell South.  

 MOHAN GUANI: We have our fingers crossed.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Thanks, John.  

 JOHN BENCHY: Okay  

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Alex Troffomof with Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Hi, Alex, we have you.  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, guys, nice quarter. I have a quick question on maybe -- maybe two questions, actually. On the Cap-X, can you break down what percentage of the Cap-X is driven by minutes of use, versus what percentage is driven by new subscribers? That's question one. On a completely unrelated question, on the CPGA you mention that obviously fixed costs represent a pretty good percentage of your CPGA. Relative to the CPGA number, how much --what percentage is that? And what is the absolute fixed costs that you are spreading among the gross adds?  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Alex, we are trying to understand the first part of your question. Essentially all capital is driven by minutes of use here. We -- we do it -- you know we have stores, we have nonsystem capital we call it. But it's a distinct minority of our total spending. We really, in the network portion, budget our capital based on total minutes of use, and we sometimes abbreviate that to subscribers because each subscriber uses so many minutes on average. It is really minutes that drives the vast bulk of our capital. And we build to serve the minutes and we don't build if we don't see them coming on.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: John, if I can. The only distinction in this particular year, while we are building out the new network which is not yet producing minutes, or that many minutes, so you separate out the build cost or the GSM/GPRS networks.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Is that what you are after, Alex? We build some way ahead of when we will use them for the minutes. But, again, it's all tailored to how many customers and how many minutes they will use once we start churning this network on with some force.  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF: I guess what I was trying to do is back into a number of what minutes of use on the network would be driven by new subscribers next year versus minutes of use as an increase of usage by existing subscribers. So I guess it was -- I'm trying to back into an estimate for the minutes of use for new subscribers and therefore your expectation for next year's net adds.  

 MOHAN GUANI: Maybe we can help a little bit by saying it used to be about half and half new customers and increased usage. Then the base is getting larger and the rate of usage is picking up, we are trending considerably more than half, maybe in the one-third two-third customer increase usage.  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF: Okay, great.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: That's a tricky way to try to back into net adds since what really drives the capital is our minutes of use at peak capacity hours.  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF: Can you give us some detail on that?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: No, I can't. [ LAUGHTER ].  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: You have a CPGA question for Mohan, too, Alex?  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF: Yes, please.  

 MOHAN GUANI: The question was what percentage, what is the actual amount of the so-called fixed cost that goes into the calculation of the CPGM? We don't break it down into that level so I can't help you on that.  

 ALEX TROFFOMOF: Okay. Thanks. Nice quarter.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Thanks, Alex.   

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Nerah Karik with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. Go ahead.  

 NERAH KARIK, DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN: My question has to do with the reduction in Cap-X estimates. The $200 million reduction, what bucket does that come out of? Is it the GSM, TDMA, or other?  

 MOHAN GUANI: Mostly coming out of the TDM A side of the house.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: TDMA and what we call nonsystem and I.T. type systems.  

 NERAH KARIK: Second question I had was can you add to your comments on your experience with some of the GSM markets that have been converted, especially maybe with some of your early markets? What are you seeing in terms of, you know, split in terms of gross adds? Are you seeing appreciable gain in the GSM product?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: It really is too early to tell. You know the power of these networks builds as the network built out.  

 NERAH KARIK: Sure.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Since we have a lot more markets to come in the second half, we need to wait.  

 NERAH KARIK: You don't think on the consumer side of things, you know, people would sign up for local plans and therefore they wouldn't really mind the fact that you don't have the full network built out nationwide?  

 MOHAN GUANI: It's two things. One, we have to off a so-called local plan. And they said they couldn't, but we always know the things customers are most interested in they are interested in price and interested in coverage.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: We have necessarily had to look for local customers for the relatively small numbers we have brought on to date. The only beginnings of a lesson, I think we can draw is that M-Mode is selling very well against those who take GSM. We have a very high loading on the GPRS M-Mode service we offer. Even that, as Mohan says is very early. Enjoy data and want it faster and broader are adding on to GPRS. We need to see some more adds before we can draw any conclusions.  

 NERAH KARIK: On the subject of M-Mode, what kind of average traffic are you seeing?  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: That's what we are saying. We want a little bit more time before we know that we've got a sustaining winner here as opposed to curious early adopters.  

 NERAH KARIK: Thank you  

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Larson with Prudential Securities. Please go ahead.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Hi, Chris.  

 CHRIS LARSON, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Hi, good afternoon. Wondering if I could get a sense for or how we should think about the money you will be spending to get the worldcom subscribers as a percent of revenue, or however you want to classify that. Secondly, since we are about three weeks into the month of July, can you give us any sense for the initial impacts of the no cancellation fee?  

 MOHAN GUANI: Um -- in terms of the no cancellation fee, that's -- I'm sorry, the -- are you talking about the ability to cancel your contract?  

 CHRIS LARSON: Your contract, yep.  

 MOHAN GUANI: Okay. Well, we are expecting that we will see an uptick in churn because of that. So, you know, we did that fully appreciating the fact that that could happen. As I said in my prepared remarks, nonetheless we think it was the right thing for us to do from a pricing standpoint and a right thing for us to do from the customer standpoint to give them the option to opt out if they want to. A little early to tell but I would not be surprised if it does not cause an uptick in our churn.  

 CHRIS LARSON: Should we think about 10 dips there?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Your crystal ball is as good as mine.  

 CHRIS LARSON: I just thought three weeks in you might have a little number for us.  

 MOHAN GUANI: Deal dynamics of Worldcom say we can't talk with you about the costs. They are relatively modest, as I tried to indicate earlier against a full CPGA on a brand-new customer. Think of these more on the retention mode.  

 CHRIS LARSON: Thanks  

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Michael Rollin. We have time for two more questions. Mr. Rollin with Salomon, Smith Barney, please go ahead.  

 MICHAEL ROLLIN, SOLOMON, SMITH, BARNEY: Thanks. Hi. I just had a couple questions on the cost side of the model. Just in terms of your overall cost focus, are their opportunities to do more dramatic programs some companies have outsourced customer care in varying degrees, different things with billing systems. I'm curious, what are the saving opportunities on that front? Secondly, as you are moving to this GSM network, how are you treating the costs as you put in radios and maybe some additional back haul? Some additional outside rent for new antennas? How is that affecting the cost model? Is it showing up today, or is that something that shows up when the network is turned on live?  

 MOHAN GUANI: Let me take the first one which is what other opportunities may we have in terms of reducing cost, and you cited billing and care. We are very open to outsourcing possibilities, and we look at them and some of our key processes today are outsourced. We look at it not for just a short-term bank. Sometimes the problems with the outsourced capabilities is you get a help up front in the first quarter or year when you implement it, and it comes back to bite you a couple years down the line. So we're going to be pretty smart about doing it; some of the opportunities that we have, we are, for exam, looking at -- we do incidentally outsource some of our care, even today. We are looking at outsourcing our care into different geographies across the globe where the cost might be even lower. We are looking at those opportunities actively. Similarly, with I.T. and billing systems, there's always the question of would it make sense for us to partner with folks and create off-shore development capabilities? Again, at much lower costs, and we are looking at those. Joe, do you want to take the second one?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Michael, pre the market launch, we capitalize the recurring costs such as the access and interconnect and lease in rents. Once we have commercially launched it, it's expense.  

 MICHAEL ROLLIN: And so is it fair to say the difference between what's churn on live today and the 97% that are installed that might be capitalized until those go live?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: That's correct.  

 MICHAEL ROLLIN: Is that something that puts substantial or significant pressure on cost of service as you enter the second half of the year? And how should we think about that in terms of cost?  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: Well, there will be an uptick as we turn on the markets, but nothing we haven't included in our guidance that we have given you.  

 MICHAEL ROLLIN: Great. Thank you.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: One more, Holly?  

 OPERATOR: Yes, we have one more question. And the last question comes from Ned Zacker with Thomas Weisel partners. Please go ahead.  

 NED ZACKER, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Thanks very much for taking the question. It pertains to booking revenues on termination from the long distance companies. You mentioned you are not booking those revenues. Are you trying to collect the revenues as I understand from some of the other companies that they are trying to get paid for termination. Please help us there.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Ned, no we are not trying to collect them, either. So this isn't a case of trying to collect them and not book it. We are waiting to see what happens with the Sprint case.  

 NED ZACKER: Just a quick follow-up. Is there any reason why you don't think you deserve to get paid for the termination? As I understand it people are increasingly getting paid for terminating the phone calls.  

 JOSEPH MCCABE, JR.: We'll take revenue anywhere we can find it. We are happy to have Sprint in the lead. We have a dog in so many fights, but it's a good thing to have somebody else out front in this one.  

 NED ZACKER: Thank you.  

 MOHAN GUANI: We are rooting for them.  

 JOHN ZEGLIS: Holly, I think we wound up questions. Do you have some closing guidelines here?  

 HOLLY ASH: Yes. Thank you. You can access the replay of today's call on the AT&T Wireless investor relations wireless at our website or by dialing the following number at 5:30 p.m. Pacific time today, or 8:30 p.m. Eastern time. For both U.S. and international dial 320-365-3844 and the access code for both is 644714. Again I would like to remind everyone of the upcoming call on July 29th with Greg Flemming Executive Vice President of network operations. Additional information will be provided within 24 hours. Please watch your e-mail or log on to our website to learn more about the conference call and the webcast. As always if you have additional questions or further questions please feel free to call me or the other members of the team at 425-580-1652; thank you.  

 OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for your participation and for using AT&T teleconference. You may now disconnect.  

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
attwir : New Cingular Wireless Services, Inc. | unitel : Sprint Nextel Corp. | cingw : AT&T Mobility LLC | sbcatt : AT&T Inc
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i7902202 : Cellular Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document fndw000020021226dy7n00076
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=at&t not hd=event and co=t
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
33
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:57 AM GMT
  
