 
•	 Q3 2016 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Verizon Communications Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Verizon Earnings and Investor Meeting - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2006 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Verizon Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Verizon Earnings Conference Call and Investor Conference - Final  
•	  Q3 2002 Verizon Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 Verizon Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2002 Verizon Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q4 2001 Verizon Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,937 words
   PD
20 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to Verizon's third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Jay. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo and Matt Ellis, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Finance Operations and Chief Financial Officer designee. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements about expected future events and financial results that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may affect future results are discussed in our filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran reviews the third-quarter results, I would like to highlight a few items from our quarterly earnings. For the third quarter of 2016, we reported earnings of $0.89 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results include several significant nonoperational items that I would like to highlight.

Our reported earnings include a non-cash pretax loss of $797 million. The pretax pension remeasurement adjustment due to settlement accounting resulted in a $555 million charge, and severance costs related to existing separation plans amounted to $242 million. The net impact after tax approximated $500 million or $0.12 per share.

In third-quarter 2015, earnings included $0.05 per share of a non-cash charge due to pension remeasurement. Excluding the effect of these nonoperational items, adjusted earnings per share was $1.01 in the third quarter, a decline of 2.9% compared with $1.04 per share a year ago.

Additionally in the quarter we executed on our first on-balance-sheet asset-backed securitization transactions totaling $2.6 billion.

The cash flow statement reflects asset-backed securitization proceeds in financing cash flow rather than operating cash flow. This captioning impacts the free cash flow metric, but overall net cash available remains unchanged relative to off-balance-sheet securitization. We plan to continue to securitize equipment receivables with on-balance-sheet financings in future periods.

With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. 2016 continues to be a transformational year for us, just as we had outlined over a year ago. During this transformation we are executing on a very challenging competitive environment, investing and positioning for the future growth, and returning value to our shareholders.

Competitive activity in the wireless market increased during the third quarter as expected, and we responded in a measured way to grow and retain our valuable customer base by introducing new wireless plans and disciplined promotions.

We have been successful in retaining our high-value postpaid smartphone base and improving service revenue trends. In the Wireline market, we returned to a strong quarter of execution following the strike that impacted the second quarter. We grew our Fios base and improved the consumer revenue trend.

We are focused on continuously improving our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies. This execution enabled us to deliver overall strong margins and adjusted earnings per share.

We remain focused on our disciplined capital allocation that consists of investing for growth, returning value to shareholders, and preserving our strong balance sheet. Our investments are consistent with our three-tier strategy, starting with investing in our network by expanding our wireless capacity and pre-positioning for future growth in both 4G and 5G.

We continue to lead in all third-party measures for network performance and reliability. We are investing in new growth businesses in digital media technology to extend our ability to monetize the usage on our networks and create new revenue streams from advertising, content rights, telematics and other IoT solutions.

In early September, our Board of Directors approved a 2.2% dividend increase, which raises our annualized dividend to $2.31 per share. This was the 10th consecutive year that our Board has approved a dividend increase, endorsing their confidence in the strength of our balance sheet and returning value to our shareholders.

Let's move to third-quarter performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 6. Our third-quarter results highlight our ability to execute in a challenging environment and drive strong operating and financial results. On a reported basis, total operating revenue decreased 6.7% in the third quarter. This decrease was primarily due to the sale of the three Wireline markets to Frontier, which closed on April 1, 2016, and the Wireless commercial pricing model change. Excluding the impact of Wireline divestiture, consolidated revenue was down 2.9%.

In terms of Wireless revenue, the service revenue trend was on track with our expectations for the migration of our postpaid subscriber base to unsubsidized price plans and optimization of our current customers to the new pricing plans. Equipment revenue, which started the quarter slowly due to low volumes, ended strong with the introduction of the iPhone 7. Wireline revenue trends were consistent with previous quarters.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled $11.3 billion, up 1%, and our adjusted EBITDA margin was 36.5%, up 140 basis points in the quarter. We remain focused on enhancing our overall cost structure by improving productivity and gaining efficiencies in our operations throughout the business, which we expect will enable us to deliver a strong earnings profile into the future.

Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 7. Cash flows from operations were $4.8 billion in the third quarter. Keep in mind as we shift to the asset-backed securitization model, there is $2.6 billion of cash that is reflected in the financing section of the cash flow statement, while in prior periods under the off-balance-sheet securitization model this funding would have flowed through cash flow from operations.

Free cash flow for the nine months of the year totaled $6.2 billion, which was impacted by our on-balance-sheet securitization transactions. Cash taxes for the quarter were higher compared to a year ago, primarily due to transaction tax payments of $2.4 billion. This amount represented the majority of total taxes due for the gain on the sale of our Wireline operations to Frontier earlier this year. The remainder is expected to be paid next quarter.

The increase was also affected by certain benefits that we realized in prior periods which did not occur in this period. Capital expenditures were $4.1 billion in the quarter, driven by increased spending in Wireless for densification and in Wireline for Fios installations, as volumes expanded post-work stoppage.

We now expect full-year 2016 capital expenditures to be at the low end of the range of $17.2 billion to $17.7 billion. We ended the quarter with $106.6 billion of total debt, which includes $2.6 billion of asset-backed securitization debt, net debt of $100.2 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.3 times.

The net debt includes the asset-backed securitization debt. We remain on track to return to our pre-Vodafone credit rating profile by the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.

Now let's move into reviews of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 8.

Service revenue of $16.7 billion declined 5.2% for the quarter, compared to a decline of 5.4% in the second quarter. Service revenue plus installment billings increased 2.3% to $19.3 billion in the third quarter. Service revenue trends are consistent with our expectations as the postpaid base migrates to the unsubsidized price plans.

We now have approximately 60% of our postpaid phone customers on the unsubsidized price plans. We continue to expect that we will return to year-over-year service revenue growth by the end of 2017.

Equipment revenue was $4.1 billion, down 3.9% due to lower equipment volumes. The percentage of phone activations on device payment plans was about 70% in the third quarter compared with about 67% in the second quarter. We expect the take rate for device payment plans for the fourth quarter to be around 70%, given the higher seasonal consumer mix of volumes.

During the quarter, 6.1 million phones were activated on a device payment plan. In total, we have about 35.8 million phone connections activated on a device payment plan, representing 41% of our postpaid phone base.

Total Wireless operating revenues decreased 3.9% in the quarter to $22.1 billion. The cost structure in Wireless continues to improve, driven by streamlining of business process improvements in distribution, care, and supply chain, resulting in higher digital customer contact and lower transaction costs.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.9 billion of segment EBITDA in the quarter, flat with last year, and we had a segment EBITDA margin of 44.9%, up 170 basis points from 43.2%.

Now let's take a closer look at Wireless additions on slide 9.

Total postpaid net adds, which we do not include any wholesale connections including Internet of Things, totaled 442,000. Within the postpaid net additions, we added 357,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were partially offset by a net decline of 3G smartphones, resulting in 242,000 net new high-quality smartphones.

Overall, net phone additions were a negative 36,000 due to the offset of basic phones and softer phone gross additions. Tablet net additions totaled 221,000. All other postpaid net additions totaled 257,000, with Verizon Wireless retail hum devices being the primary driver.

Postpaid gross additions were 3.8 million, down from 4.2 million and up slightly from last quarter. Retail postpaid churn was 1.04%, up 11 basis points, driven by tablet churn. As we have previously discussed, we expect this higher rate of tablet churn to continue into the first half of next year as two-year agreements associated with prior tablet promotional offers roll off.

We continue to see strong retention in our retail postpaid phone base. Postpaid phone churn was up 2 basis points from a year ago and remained below 0.90% for the sixth consecutive quarter. Net prepaid additions increased to 83,000 for the quarter, which is a significant improvement sequentially and from the prior year due to the impact of new price plans for our prepaid market.

We ended the quarter with 113.7 million total retail connections, excluding all wholesale connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connection base grew 3% to 108.2 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.5 million. Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 10.

Total postpaid device activations were 10.7 million in the quarter, up 12.2% sequentially and down nearly 7.7% on a year-over-year basis. Approximately 82% of these activations were phones, with tablets accounting for the majority of other device activations. About 6.3% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the third quarter. This represents a decline of 70 basis points year over year and up from 5.4% in the prior quarter.

Our upgrades and momentum in the third quarter were negatively impacted by the recall of the Note 7. Additionally, we experienced an iPhone 7 backlog, primarily for upgrades.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 11.

Consumer revenue increased 0.2% and mass markets, which includes small business, declined 0.5%. Fios total revenue grew 4.4% with consumer Fios revenue rising 4.2%. The growth in Fios was driven by a higher customer base, strong retention programs, and the demand for higher internet speeds. Approximately 16% of our Fios internet base has opted for speeds of 100 megabits or greater.

We continue to see strong demand consistent with prior quarters for custom TV. During the third quarter we returned to normal seasonal volumes ahead of our expectations coming out of the work stoppage.

Fios internet subscriber growth was strong in the third quarter. In broadband, we added 90,000 net Fios customers for the quarter, which were at pre-work-stoppage levels. Overall, net broadband subscribers increased by 24,000 in the quarter. Fios internet penetration was 40.4% in the quarter compared to 40.1%, representing an increase of 30 basis points.

In Fios video, we added 36,000 net customers in the quarter, which was also consistent with pre-work-stoppage levels. Fios video penetration was 34.5% in the quarter compared to 35.4%, representing a decline of 90 basis points driven by increased open for sale markets and softer linear TV demand. We continue to see an opportunity to further penetrate the Fios markets we serve.

Let's turn to slide 12 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.

Total operating revenues for the Wireline segment declined 2.3% in the third quarter, consistent with recent trends. In the third quarter, global enterprise revenue declined 3.4% and on a constant currency basis the decline was about 2.9%.

In our Wholesale business, revenues decreased 3.9% in the third quarter. Trends in our Global Enterprise and Wholesale businesses remained consistent with prior periods. However, we expect that in the fourth quarter will see a decline in Wholesale in the range of 7% to 9% due to nonrecurring items in the prior year.

Wireline segment EBITDA margin was 21.2% compared to 18.9% in the period last year, up 230 basis points due to Fios growth and cost management. We believe we will continue to make progress in expanding the Wireline EBITDA margin. As we expected, Wireline capital spending levels increased in the third quarter as we returned to normal operations after the work stoppage in the second quarter.

Let's move next to slide 13 and cover strategic positioning and investments.

Network leadership is our primary objective in the markets we serve. We are investing in our networks and building capacity for the future and positioning our business for new industry growth opportunities. Recently we launched LTE advanced in over 460 markets, delivering improved service to more than 90% of the US population. We are steadily advancing our cloud and software-defined network architecture and moving forward aggressively with our densification efforts and pre-positioning for 5G technology.

Our One Fiber strategy initiative is on track and we are building our next-generation fiber network in the city of Boston. In July, the FCC approved our millimeter wave spectrum band lease agreement with XO Communications, clearing the way for testing 5G technology in different environments.

Our 5G technical trials have been successful and we are now planning our commercial pilot program in 2017 where we will test the technology in different environments with several infrastructure providers to determine ability to scale and operationalize fixed wireless product offerings. Based on the outcome of our commercial pilot program, Verizon intends to be the first company to launch a 5G fixed wireless broadband solution in the United States.

In the third quarter, network usage increased 45%. Digital video is the primary driver of traffic on our network. In order to participate in the digital media value chain, we have assembled assets to grow in the digital media business. We have accumulated a large portfolio of digital rights and invested in specific assets to distribute, publish, and create digital content.

In order to drive incremental value from digital media traffic, we are scaling and leveraging AOL's ad tech capabilities to monetize digital impressions on and off our network. We believe we are strategically well-positioned with the right set of assets to grow in this expanding market.

In the third quarter, AOL's net revenue, measured as gross revenue less traffic acquisition costs, amounted to $486 million, which represented an increase of approximately 10%. Net revenue growth was primarily driven by advertising revenue from programmatic platforms. Over the next two quarters we expect AOL net revenue to follow seasonal trends, but year-over-year growth to be lower due to one-time benefits in the prior year from the Microsoft deal, especially in the fourth quarter.

We are seeing strong demand from advertisers for AOL's expanding programmatic capabilities and high-quality data analytic tools. We expect that the pending acquisition of Yahoo will further expand our scale in the digital media space. This would place us in a unique position to serve unmet customer needs, participate in digital publishing and video, and to monetize the content.

On the go90 platform, the level of viewer engagement as measured by daily usage has been rising steadily since re-platforming the application earlier this summer. In the third quarter, the average daily usage in go90 surpassed more than 30 minutes per viewer, with less than 20% of traffic served on the Verizon Wireless network. While still early in its product cycle, we are very encouraged by the traction with users primarily attracted by unique content.

For example, in July we introduced an original streaming monthly reality series titled The Runner. Viewers can watch episodes aired three times daily via the go90 app, go90.com, and aol.com. The innovative game format, with an emphasis on live user participation, contributed to strong usage and engagement.

During the quarter, we expanded go90 participation in FreeBee Data 360, a sponsored data service which allows customers to stream live sports, including NFL games, and music without it counting against their Verizon data. We are seeing increased engagement in the application.

In September, with our partner Hearst, we announced the formation of Complex Networks, which brings together Complex and digital video networks RatedRed.com and Seriously.TV. In the United States, Complex reaches more than half of the male 18 to 24 population and it is one of the largest properties for this population. The content produced in this partnership will be available on go90, which we expect will further increase user engagement and traffic growth.

The rapidly evolving Internet of Things market provides us with new business opportunities for our customers globally. We intend to scale telematics, ThingSpace, smart city, and other IoT solutions globally. Organically, IoT revenues were $217 million, up 24% from the comparable period last year.

Including two months of Telogis activity, IoT revenues were up more than 30% in the quarter. IoT revenues were primarily driven by telematics. Telogis, which closed in July, expands our telematics capabilities targeted for the enterprise space. In July, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Fleetmatics, a global Software-as-a-Service-based telematics provider in the small- and medium-sized business space, for $2.4 billion. The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2016.

In September, we completed the purchase of Sensity Systems, a leading provider of IoT solutions for smart city. This transaction closed in October. The acquisition adds a leading comprehensive suite of smart city solutions to our IoT platform. We are now focused on integrating the assets.

Now let's turn to slide 14 for an overall summary.

As we stated coming into the year, 2016 is a significant transformational year for us. We continued to deliver consistent performance during this transitional period. We are executing in a competitive environment. For the third quarter, despite a challenging competitive environment in Wireless, we added over 442,000 postpaid net customers, retained high-value postpaid phone customers, and improved our Wireless service revenue trends.

In Wireline, Fios performance was ahead of our expectations. In both Wireless and Wireline we have made significant progress on improving our cost structure. We continue to invest in our networks and platforms to be the network leader in the markets we serve and we are setting up the business to return to growth in 2017.

We are focused on developing new business models and revenue streams. In our new businesses we are scaling our media assets and Internet of Things platforms to position us for long-term growth and are demonstrating progress. As we enter the final quarter of the year, we are confident in our ability to execute, deliver results, and return value to shareholders while transforming the business.

We are on course for our 2016 guidance and expectations. Full-year adjusted earnings to be at a level comparable to 2015, excluding the $0.07 impact of work stoppage. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin consistent with full-year 2015. Consolidated capital spending at the low end of the $17.2 billion to $17.7 billion range.

We made a full-year total pension contribution of approximately $750 million, which consists of minimum funding of approximately $550 million, and a discretionary contribution of about $200 million. We expect our full-year 2016 effective tax rate to be in the range of 35% to 36%.

While we will be providing more guidance in January, we expect that organically consolidated revenue growth in 2017 will be at a level consistent with GDP growth for that year and adjusted EPS growth will be at normal levels.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Jay, we are now ready to questions for Fran and Matt.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First, Fran, thanks for all your help in the last five years and good luck going forward. Matt, congratulations on the new seat.

How should we think about postpaid phones and accounts going forward? Given what seems like a saturated industry and reinvigorated competition, are you more in a mode to harvest the existing customers than hunting for more share in accounts?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil; appreciate it. Look, as we came into the year we said that one of the top priorities we had was to protect our high-quality base and that's what you are seeing. Look, we want to continue to grow from a net subscriber base, both in phones; but as I've said before, smartphones are going to be a slower growth for the entire industry as it gets more densified.

But just a couple things that happened this quarter that did have an impact on our overall growth. Really it was more from a gross add basis, because as you saw, we gave you, for the first time, our phone churn which is at a 0.90% for the last six consecutive quarters. So you can see that we are continuing to maintain that base and protect our base.

But of course, this quarter some things happened that affected our inward bound or gross adds. One was, as we previously talked, when the competitive world launches new price plans -- and this quarter it was around unlimited and, obviously, we did not respond to that. But as I've said, there's going to be a two- to three-week period of time where there is an impact to our growth. And we saw that. But, as I've always said, after that three weeks everything kind of normalizes back out.

So once we got through that we were off to a really good start with the Samsung Note 7 and then, unfortunately, there was a total recall of that phone which has definitely impacted our growth, because historically Verizon has always been the number one leader in high-end Samsung phones. So that has certainly impacted us.

Then, of course, we had the Apple launch and, as normal, everyone is in a backlog situation. So that's just a couple things.

The other thing we saw this quarter as well was we are totally focused on smartphones. You saw that our net smartphone growth was 242,000 and that's really where we're focused in on. As you saw also, we made some moves in prepaid because where we are losing the subscribers is mostly in the basic phone category and we know that our postpaid pricing is more premium to the marketplace and less attractive to that segment.

So we did launch some new prepaid pricing and what we did see was we saw a double amount of our postpaid subscribers move over to our prepaid, more than we've seen in history. And that accounted for a little less than 50% of our prepaid net adds this quarter.

So we did see some shift in our base, but the good news there is that we did not lose the customer. We maintained the customer, at least on the Verizon Wireless network.

Going forward, as I've always said, we will continue to be very rational in our competitive response. We will respond when we need to. Obviously, we responded on the equipment side of the equation. But as we continue here, unlimited is still not something that we're going to move to.

But, as you saw also, we launched new pricing this quarter which we believe also addressed two of the major pain points for our customers. One was overage. We saw over 7 million of our customers move to the new safe mode plans that we constructed, which will protect them from getting overage charges in the future.

Then, second, we also allow them to now carryover. If they buy an extra gig for the month, if that gig is not totally used we allow them to carry that into the next quarter for usage for 30 days.

We have seen some really positive responses within our base, but obviously there was some impact on the gross adds in some of the competitive environment. We will go into the fourth quarter very strong and, as I said, we will continue to strive to grow all aspects of our business.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, Mike. Fran, want to add my best wishes to you and thanks for everything.

Following on on the top-line and the growth question, could you just help us bridge the path to the GDP-type growth that you referenced again for 2017 versus the decline of 2.9% normalized for this quarter? Some of it I guess is around the service revenues, but if you could help us with the building blocks and the timing of delivering that.

And then I think you were hoping to give us an update on the data center transaction, if you have any news there. Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Simon. I will take the data center; I will pass the other question on top line over to Matt.

On data centers, we are proceeding with the sale of our data centers. We are currently in negotiations and we should have something to formally announce to everyone here early in the fourth quarter. So more to come on that, but we are progressing with the sale of our data centers. Matt?

SIMON FLANNERY: So that's with one party, is it?

FRAN SHAMMO: At this point, yes, we are in negotiations with one individual.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, thank you.

MATT ELLIS, SVP & CFO, OPERATIONS FINANCE, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Good morning, Simon. So your question about 2017 and where that GDP-like top-line growth will come from, let's break it down by the different parts of the business.

Predominately in Wireless, as we've said, we've been doing this transition. You've seen the year-over-year service revenue trajectory continue to improve. We are at negative 6.2% in the first quarter; that came down to 5.4% in the second quarter and 5.2% this quarter.

So as we go into 2017, we now have 60% of the base on the non-subsidized pricing. That will continue to expand and that will obviously be a contributor to the improvement in revenue next year.

And as Fran mentioned earlier, we expect to get back to year-over-year growth by the end of the year in service revenue. We expect to see consistent trends within the Wireline business, but remember we only have one quarter of Frontier in the 2016 comparison as we get into 2017.

And then, as you saw in our comments, we continue to make good progress in IoT and the video advertising space and we continue to expect those pieces to continue to contribute to the revenue as we head into 2017. So when you add all those things up, we are confident at this point in time that we will be on track to deliver the GDP-type top-line growth and look forward to giving you more color commentary on that in our January call.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Hello? Jay, let's move to the next question.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Great. Fran, again, it's been good working with you for the last five years and good luck in the future.

With the cable companies announcing that they are going to move forward the MVNOs mid next year, is there anything you can tell us about how Verizon sees the economics of those agreements? Obviously, given your unique knowledge of the terms, what do you think -- what kind of impact do you expect it to have on the overall competitive environment that we are seeing in wireless? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. Look, I'm not going to get into the agreement. Obviously, we're under nondisclosure with Comcast on that agreement and the other cable providers.

But, look, we knew what we entered we bought the licenses back several years ago. This is a wholesale agreement and, as Lowell and I have repeatedly said, we would to the agreement today again if we had to. It's a good agreement for Verizon Wireless. It's a good wholesale agreement.

I can't speak the economics of what they're going to do. You'll have to ask them that question.

But, look, as I've said before, the wireless pie continues to grow. Everyone wants to get a piece of this pie. The industry itself will continue to grow around that pie, so it's not like I believe the industry with the carriers will lose share to anyone. I just think there's going to be more opportunity for growth.

If you look at the future and you think about the LTE densification projects that we have going on and then you look at the whole 5G world for fixed wireless, that's going to enter into a whole new growth trajectory for the entire industry. Again, we will compete against the competition. We will compete against new entrants in the marketplace. We will wait to see what is launched. And, as I said before, we will respond where we need to respond and we will wait to see what happens.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: David Barden.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Can you hear me now? I should've dialed in with my mobile phone the first time. Again, thanks, Fran, for everything over the past few years.

I want to ask two questions, if I could. Just first on the -- it sounds like the IoT and AOL ad tech, etc., are going to be part of the kind of revenue equation on a go-forward basis. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the margin profile of those relative to the margin of the general business as we look at it today.

Then second, specifically on the Wireline margin side, obviously we have the new union contract and we are expecting that to have some follow-on benefits into the second half and into next year. Could you talk a little bit about the cadence at which we might see the margin trajectory of the business start to graduate upwards towards the legacy 23%, if possible? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, David. Thanks for the questions. I'm going to answer the first one. I'm going to have Matt answer the Wireline one.

On IoT, look, we see the telematics piece of this to be a really high growth engine for us and, as I said in the prepared remarks, we're looking at a 24%, without Telogis, growth rate year over year. And mainly most of that is all driven via telematics and hum, so we will continue on that.

As far as the margin profile goes, look, these companies are still maturing. They are profitable, but we expect that the margin profile will continue to grow as we leverage onto these platforms.

The other thing, too, to note that in the IoT world, since it is a platform-based technology, whether you look at IoT or smart cities, these are all very what I would call minimally capital-intensive type businesses. And that would go for video as well.

When you think about the return on invested capital, you get there much quicker than, say, on a network-based type platform. So we are expecting that the ROI on this will happen relatively quickly, but the margin will come and we will talk more about that as we grow this business.

Matt, on Wireline?

MATT ELLIS: Yes, so had a good quarter in Wireline, as you saw. The EBITDA margin improved to 21.2% so you are starting to see some of that improvement we have been talking about, especially as we got out of the impacts from the work stoppage.

As we said, we expect that the new union contract would generate $500 million of cash savings through the term of the contract spread across 2017, 2018, and 2019, so you should certainly see that come through. We believe that you will continue to see the Wireline margin expand. We had a good expansion in the past quarter and you should see us continue to make progress on that as we go forward into the fourth quarter and then into 2017.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. Fran, I also want to extend my best wishes as you approach the upcoming retirement.

If I could just follow-on two questions; first, if you could talk a little bit about where you are in the testing of the 5G services and what you are learning in terms of the capabilities, performance, and the economic model as a potential third pipe into the home.

And then secondly, just going back to the guidance on earnings where you mentioned that you want to get back to normal levels. Given the impact of installment plans and the purchase of the Verizon Wireless minority, it's been a few years since I think you could call the changes normal. So how are you defining what normal earnings growth is for Verizon? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Michael. I'll take the first; I'm going to put the earnings one to Matt.

For the 5G, obviously we've been mainly centered around the lab testing of 5G. We are now moving out into the commercial trial, which we are going to span out across several different cities with several different types of testing with different OEMs. To give you an example, one city may be a very dense city, going into multidivisional areas; another one might be more urban with just looking at single-family homes, so we are going to test this in very different types of commercial environments.

The big issue that still has to be answered, quite honestly, is the scaling of the technology. For each small cell, how much can each small cell deliver to how many households and still deliver a consistent 1 gigabit speed or some speed that is comparable to a broadband connection to the home? So that still has to be answered and we expect to gain more knowledge around that in 2017 with the number of commercial trials that we're going to launch.

So at this point that's really all there is to talk about from a 5G perspective. Matt, I will turn it over to you.

MATT ELLIS: Good morning, Mike. In terms of the EPS growth for next year and where that should come out, you start with the top line and we've already talked about how you get to that GDP-type growth next year and the changes year over year that you should expect to see. Then you layer in on top of that the continued cost improvements we talked about in Wireless.

Obviously it started last year with the restructuring of the business. We continue to make good efforts in reducing the cost to run the business, whether that's reducing the number of calls we receive, reducing the transaction times, moving more of the transactions online, etc., etc., and you should see more of that continue.

Wireline we have the full-year benefit of the new union contract coming through. You've seen some of the headcount changes that we talked about that will continue to help us expand the margin there.

And then in the other parts of the business, whether it be the IoT or the videos, we continue to add scale there; the margins there should improve. So when you add those things up you're going to get to an improvement in EPS that we think is in line with what the expectation out on the Street should be.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, MOFFETTNATHANSON: Good morning, everyone. Fran, let me add my thanks and congratulations as well and to you, too, Matt.

I wanted to ask about the Yahoo transaction. First, if you could just comment on press reports about the finding of a material adverse condition or a change and if you have any update to offer there. But then more broadly with respect to Yahoo and AOL, can you talk about how the proposed rulemaking at the FCC, whereby, as an ISP, you would likely be held to an opt-in standard for addressability? Does that change your expectations of how you can monetize either the AOL or the Yahoo asset?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Craig. On Yahoo, look, Lowell and Craig have both commented on this recently, so let me just reiterate what they have said. We are still evaluating what it means for this transaction.

This was an extremely large breach that has received a lot of attention from a lot of different people, so we have to assume that it will have a material impact on Yahoo. Lawyers had their first call yesterday with Yahoo to provide us information, but from what I understand that's going to be a long process. So unless Yahoo comes up with different process, it's going to take some time to evaluate this. Until then, we haven't reached any final conclusions around this issue.

As far as the privacy goes, look, I think there's a couple things here. Obviously we take privacy and security of our customers extremely seriously. We live under the regulation of the FCC, which has a very high standard for carriers around privacy. And what we are looking for is that the FTC and the FCC come out with a common rule that makes it competitive across the entire ecosystem and that the rules are more consistent, so that everyone can compete equally and there is no winners and losers within the ecosystem.

We look forward to reviewing the final order of privacy from the FCC and, hopefully, the FTC and then we will have to react to that. But, look, we are operating AOL today under the current environment and we will continue to operate and, as you saw, we continue to grow AOL under that purview of the privacy regulations. So I think we will just have to wait to see where this all comes out, but we are hoping that it is an equal playing field across the board.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking my question and once again, Fran, congrats. It's been great working with you. So my question is, if I look at your postpaid ARPA in the quarter, it was actually reasonably stable versus the prior quarter. I was hoping you could maybe just give us a little more color on what drove that, particularly the uptake rate and reaction to the new pricing you put in several weeks ago.

And then just as an extension of that, if we extrapolate the trend we saw here it suggests that maybe you would actually stabilize your service revenues a little sooner than you are talking about. I'm just wondering what you think the opportunity could be there to maybe get to that stabilization a bit faster. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Matt, why don't you take this one?

MATT ELLIS: I think what this one comes back to, Brett, is -- and Fran talked about it. Within the base the continued growth of our 4G smartphone base, we had net adds of 357,000 4G smartphones during the quarter. That is obviously contributing.

We saw very strong adoption from our existing base to the new price plans. We saw a number of those customers step up in terms of the buckets they are purchasing. And so I think you see that we have a very strong relationship with our base and our consumers continue to take full advantage of the network. We've seen video use or total usage on the Wireless network up about 45% this year and you continue to see that show up in the ARPA trend.

So, yes, as you think about heading into 2017, we expect to see -- especially as we've got 60% of the base now on the non-subsidized pricing, we expect to continue to see some strong ARPA trends as we go forward into next year.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, and actually just one quick follow-up. You'd mentioned earlier that there were some device supply issues, for example the Note 7 and some of the iPhone 7 models, recently. Have those cleared up?

And maybe just at a bigger picture, do think that over the course of the holiday season you are likely to continue to suffer those supply issues and maybe that could contain some of the upgrades in activity levels we would normally expect?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, the Note 7 has been recalled totally and won't be relaunched, so obviously that's a permanent change to the lineup. We are bringing in new phones for the fourth quarter.

As always, Apple is always generally in a backlog situation for the industry. I don't expect that to change, at least not early in the fourth quarter. But other than that, Matt, have anything else to add?

MATT ELLIS: No, that sounds pretty much it. We would expect Apple to get caught up as we go through the quarter here and we will see how that plays out.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thanks for taking the questions.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Great, thanks. Again, best of luck, Fran. It's been great working with you.

On the feature phone base, you have north of 13 million phones out there. How should we think about that? Is that going to be an accelerating loss situation or is there something you're doing there, either with respect to mitigating churn or care or retention efforts? If you can comment on that, that would be great.

And then just on the delta between those that are on unsubsidized plans, the percentage of those on those plans versus those making Edge payments, that gap continues to widen out a bit. Is there retention efforts going on there or is there something else we should be thinking about? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: I will have Matt do the feature phone one. Let me just answer the unsubsidized/subsidized Edge phone.

As you know, we have allowed our base to upgrade and choose whether they take a subsidized or an unsubsidized plan, so that currently is the policy that we have. And we will have to review that policy as time goes here into the fourth quarter, first quarter of next year.

So there may be some shifts within that going forward, but right now that policy still holds. And that's why you see some of the separation between the number of people who have moved to the unsubsidized plan versus the number of people who are currently on a device payment plan. We will update that in the fourth quarter as we go.

Matt, on feature?

MATT ELLIS: Yes, so I think what you are seeing on feature phones is -- and Fran mentioned this in our earlier remarks -- that you are seeing some part of the move to prepaid has come from the feature phones. Look, we will have some people who have feature phones in postpaid stay as postpaid customers and we're very happy to -- glad that they will do that, but we also expect to see some of those continue to move into a prepaid environment, which may be a better place for them to be.

We also continue to see people moving from feature phones to smartphones and when we get that we see increased usage with those customers as well. So we will continue to monitor that, but we are happy with the trends where they are going at the moment.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Look forward to working with you, Matt.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good luck, guys. Can you get a little more color on the CapEx? It, for you and the whole industry, seems to be coming at the lower end of expectations. I know you focus on SDN and densification a little bit more. Is this a trend that is sustainable?

And related to this, how do you think your network is holding up versus your peers? A lot of your peers are spending a lot less on CapEx, but the RootMetrics and other services are saying that their quality is catching with your network. Any thoughts?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Tim. On the CapEx trends, I think this was all related to the strike that we experienced in the second quarter and we're not going to be able to catch up on that from an overall or year-over-year perspective. So that's why we've revised guidance to the lower end of our range, but we are still spending around $17.2 billion this year in CapEx.

The other thing, too, is you have to remember we are spending our CapEx around Wireless for LTE densification. And as we have talked many, many times before, we do our usage projections well in advance of where we believe that usage will come. Obviously, we know that video is the major driver of the usage with a 45% increase year over year. I think the stat now is over 90% of our data usage is on the LTE network.

We see that continuing to increase, so we are really preparing for two years out from where our usage is today so we are densifying the network. And we've seen this movie before where CapEx trends go down and user catches up and then all of a sudden the networks falter.

Look, I think the RootMetrics reports speak for themselves. Once again, we won hands down across the country. That is the brand that we live by and we will continue to build and densify our networks to meet our customers' demand before they actually realize they need it.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Jay, we have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much and once again, Fran, wanted to echo prior comments wishing you the best of luck with your next endeavors and congrats, Matt, on the new role.

I was wondering if we could talk more broadly, Fran, about your M&A strategy. Clearly, you folks have made a concerted effort towards improving your asset portfolio to support both the media co and IoT initiatives. As it stands today, do you see any areas where you may need to bolster your pool of assets in order to move forward with these strategies? Or as you exit this transition year should we consider 2017 more of an integration year for you folks?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think that's right, Amir. I think -- look, we have made some strategic moves here around diversification. We know that the telematics business is a business that has high potential and, if you looked across the industry, there are a lot of competitors in there, but no one really has a big share within that marketplace. We want to gain more share within that marketplace and we think we can with the assets that we have accumulated between Telogis and Fleetmatics here.

So we will continue to move in that direction, but I don't think that there's anything large on the table at this point. We now have to integrate those assets and that's what our telematics group is actually doing right now.

As you saw, we launched hum. Hum came out of the telematics group; although it is, for the majority, sold through Verizon Wireless, it actually is a product to come out of the telematics group. So we will continue to innovate in that area.

You are starting to see us do a little -- a few things around smart cities, because we believe that with the pre-positioning of 5G and the latency issues, smart cities is going to be an area of growth for the future. We have demonstrated with certain cities where we are deploying it now that we can actually save them money on a lot of different things and that their payback is relatively quick. So I think that is just something that we are positioning for the future.

Then around media co, obviously we have the Yahoo asset sitting out there, but to date we have accumulated assets that we believe are really strategic for us to grow this business. And as we've said before, we know that the wallet share of consumer for communications has been flat for relatively the last 15 to 20 years, so we have to think about a different way to monetize our network capability and that monetization will come through advertising.

It's real simple. I mean the equation is, if you get more views, you get more advertisers, therefore you generate more revenue. We see that now with AOL. Even with the 10% increase in revenue year over year, which is the first time we've given that to you, we are starting to see that advertisers are coming to our platforms.

So now we just have to integrate and execute on that model and we believe we have the right assets to do that. The long and short of the answer is there is nothing large out there that we need to be successful with at this point in time.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you. A quick follow-up, if I may, on the media co strategy. It does seem like increasingly many are attempting to gain share from consumers via video; not just some of your peers in the market, but on a whole technology company level as well.

How do you view your positioning and your ability to differentiate going forward? I guess the question I have is what have you learned about your strategy thus far, be it with AOL, Verizon Digital Media Services, or go90? And how is that informing your strategy going forward in your ability to differentiate?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think the big differentiation here, Amir, is we are developing content for short form and really for live. And that's really the differentiation is short form content, whether that's over-the-top or via mobile. Also I think the differentiation for us is the integration across our platform. If you go to AOL now, you're going to start to see Complex come through. You will see RatedRed and Seriously.TV in the future come through on that platform.

If you look at the NFL, we've adopted that into the go90 platform and I know there's been some articles around viewership of NFL. We've actually seen a healthy increase Year over year on our platform around the NFL, so we are headed in the right direction.

The key learnings here have been you need to have the right content that is appealing to the audience that you are going after. You've seen us make moves; you're going to see us move out of certain content that was originally in go90 that just isn't the right content. But sports, news, live, original content is the direction that we are taking on this platform and we think we will be successful with that.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thanks very much for taking the questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thanks for all the questions. For one last time I have the privilege to turn the call back to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Before we end, I want to highlight just a few key points.

Number one, we are focused on maintaining leadership in network quality, customer loyalty, and financial performance. Strategically, we are aggressively building new businesses with revenue streams and ecosystems that are expanding the entire industry. I am confident that Verizon will remain a leading player in the next growth phase of the industry and create value for our shareholders.

Finally, I want to thank the Board, our investors, and all of you on this call. It has been a pleasure working with all of you. It has been an honor and privilege to serve as the CFO of Verizon for the last six years.

Thank you again for joining Verizon and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

EDITOR: COMPANY DISCLAIMERS

Important Additional Information and Where to Find It

On September 9, 2016, Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a preliminary proxy statement regarding the proposed sale of Yahoo's operating business to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon") and related transactions, and the definitive version of which will be sent or provided to Yahoo stockholders. BEFORE MAKING ANY VOTING DECISION, YAHOO'S STOCKHOLDERS ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO READ YAHOO'S PROXY STATEMENT IN ITS ENTIRETY (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE) AND ANY OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROPOSED TRANSACTIONS OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE THEREIN BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTIONS. Investors and stockholders can obtain a free copy of Yahoo's proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement, and other documents filed by Yahoo with the SEC in connection with the proposed transactions for no charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, on the Investor Relations page of Yahoo's website investor.yahoo.net or by writing to Investor Relations, Yahoo! Inc., 701 First Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94089.

Yahoo and its directors and executive officers, as well as Verizon and its directors and executive officers, may be deemed participants in the solicitation of proxies from Yahoo's investors and stockholders in connection with the proposed transactions. Information concerning the ownership of Yahoo securities by Yahoo's directors and executive officers is included in their SEC filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and additional information is also available in Yahoo's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as amended, and Yahoo's proxy statement for its 2016 annual meeting of stockholders filed with the SEC on May 23, 2016. Information about Verizon's directors and executive officers is set forth in Verizon's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and Verizon's proxy statement for its 2016 annual meeting of stockholders filed with the SEC on March 21, 2016. Information regarding Yahoo's directors, executive officers and other persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transactions, including their respective interests by security holdings or otherwise, also will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement relating to the proposed transactions when it is filed with the SEC. These documents may be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | seexc : US Securities and Exchange Commission
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunication Services | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161021ecak001jl
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,006 words
   PD
26 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Thank you, you may begin.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Tori. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lowell McAdam, and our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo.

Thank you for joining us this morning. Given yesterday's announcement of the Yahoo acquisition, we expect this call will exceed an hour.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial, and operating information; the investor quarterly; and the presentation slides are available on the investor relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements about expected future events and financial results that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may affect future results are discussed in our filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available on our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Lowell and Fran go through our strategy and these results, I would like to highlight a few items. For the second quarter of 2016, we reported earnings of $0.17 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results included several significant non-operational items that I would like to highlight.

Our reported earnings include a non-cash pretax loss of $3.6 billion generated by pension and other post-retirement benefits, primarily due to the remeasurements triggered by the new labor contracts, the transaction with Frontier, and settlement accounting. The overall impact after tax amounted to $2.2 billion, or $0.54 per share.

On the balance sheet side in the quarter, employee benefit obligations were reduced on a net basis by $1.6 billion, primarily driven by actuarial valuations associated with the new labor contracts and the Frontier transaction, which were partially offset by the mark-to-market remeasurements and the assets transferred to Frontier. Year to date, unfunded employee benefit obligations have been reduced by $1.9 billion.

We incurred non-operational expenses of $1.8 billion in connection with the early debt redemption and tender offers. On an after-tax basis, these charges amounted to $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share. Additionally, we recognized a pretax gain of $1 billion on the sale of California, Florida, and Texas wireline markets to Frontier. On an after-tax basis, the gain on sale amounted to $139 million, or $0.03 per share.

Excluding the effect of these non-operational items, adjusted earnings per share was $0.94 in the second quarter compared with $1.04 per share a year ago, or a decline of 9.6%. There were no special items of a non-operational nature in the second quarter of 2015.

Our adjusted results include the impact of the work stoppage, which at the consolidated level amounted to $420 million on a pretax basis, representing about $0.07 per share. At the Wireline segment level, before consolidating intercompany transactions, the pretax amount was $489 million. As previously stated, we will not recapture the $0.07 for the impact of the work stoppage on full-year 2016 earnings per share.

For purposes of comparability in the Wireline segment, the historical results of the operations that we sold to Frontier on April 1, 2016, have been reclassified to Corporate and Other. On June 28, we filed a Form 8-K providing the recast unaudited historical information for the past nine quarters, which can be accessed on our website. Additionally, prior-period results do not include the operations of AOL.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Lowell.

LOWELL MCADAM, CHAIRMAN & CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We had an eventful first half of 2016 marked with several strategic milestones.

We continued to evolve our Wireless pricing model and customer interface. We closed the Frontier transaction. We made major moves in our network and reached new contracts with our labor unions, all while delivering solid results in a challenging environment. We will discuss all of these in more detail in a few minutes.

In addition, yesterday we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Yahoo's operating business for approximately $4.8 billion, a transaction that will make us an even stronger competitor in digital media. With everything that's going on, I wanted to take a few minutes at the start of this call to put these initiatives in context and tell you how we are strengthening our ability to realize our mission of delivering the promise of the digital world.

We have spoken to you before about our three-tier strategy. First, sustaining quality and performance leadership in all of our networks; second, in building new ecosystems around our broadband, video, and Internet of Things global platforms; and finally, monetizing our investments in networks and platforms through applications and content. I am very pleased with the progress that we are making across all of these fronts.

For us, delivering the promise of the digital world begins with network leadership, which has been the cornerstone of our brand since we formed Verizon in 2000. Our 4G LTE network consistently leads all external studies for quality and reliability across the country, even with the explosive growth of data usage. Over the last 16 years, we have grown from approximately 25 million customers using wireless almost exclusively for voice services to more than 110 million customers using wireless for mostly data services.

In the second quarter alone, network usage increased 44% over the prior year. To give you a perspective on traffic growth, we carry the same amount of traffic on our network in one hour today as we did 10-plus years ago in one week.

In light of this growing demand, we are continuing to invest in and evolve our Wireless network to provide the broadest, most reliable, and highest quality wireless experience for our customers. This investment includes expanding the fiber front and backhaul to support wireless network growth.

Verizon has been a leader in pushing the industry forward in every new generation of wireless technology. With 3G, we ushered in an era of wireless data. By being the first to implement 4G LTE, we changed the game for the delivery of wireless broadband, opening up new opportunities for our customers and the industry as a whole.

LTE is a growth engine for applications and devices across the ecosystem, increasing the productivity of our country. New players are entering this ecosystem every day. To make sure 4G LTE can handle our customers' ever-increasing demands, we are challenging conventional approaches to network architecture by deploying fiber to cell sites and densifying cells to handle the constant demand on the network in high-usage areas.

We are also optimizing 4G with new techniques like centralized baseband architecture, carrier aggregation, and core network virtualization initiatives, which provide operating, capital, and spectral network efficiencies.

The balance has shifted away from building capacity exclusively through spectrum. We believe that 4G will be the base layer of our Wireless network for years to come. Moreover, our approach to network architecture is also preparing us for 5G and shaping our thinking about future investment that will drive growth across all our business and ecosystem.

You saw the first fruits of this strategy in April, when we announced our One Fiber strategy for the city of Boston. We will create a single fiber-optic network platform capable of supporting wireless and wireline technologies and multiple products. In particular, we believe the fiber deployment will create economic growth for Boston and we are talking to other cities about similar partnerships.

No longer are discussions solely about local franchise rights, but how to make forward-looking cities more productive and effective. Our announced agreement to acquire XO Communications will also be a key part of this strategy, providing us with the deep fiber assets including 40 metro fiber rings in major cities and millimeter wave spectrum in a significant part of the country that will give us a critical competitive edge.

Yesterday the FCC approved our lease arrangement with XO so that we have a clear spectrum path toward 5G deployment, which, like 4G, will be a game changer. I think of 5G initially as, in effect, wireless fiber, which is wireless technology that can provide an enhanced broadband experience that could only previously be delivered with physical fiber to the customer. With wireless fiber, the so-called last mile can be a virtual connection, dramatically changing our cost structure.

I know we heard a lot of skepticism when we formed the 5G Tech Forum last fall, with critics questioning the need for moving so soon. But as we learned from our experience with 4G, being a first mover in developing the technology and nurturing the ecosystem is the best way to ensure that our customers benefit from its capabilities.

In our labs we are able to predict and model what a future home will look like with multiple high-definition TVs, laptops, tablets, and virtual reality applications served over a wireless connection, delivered at speeds significantly higher than 1 gigabit per second. We are conducting field trials to see how the technology will perform using millimeter wave spectrum in terms of reach and propagation in real-world conditions.

Mobile use cases, which will follow toward the end of the decade, will include massive Internet of Things scale and low latency services and applications. Trade associations are already accelerating their timelines for standards, which will be good for the industry. The ecosystem, including chipset equipment and device manufacturers, is aggressively adding resources to deliver handsets and low-latency applications.

To date, we have accomplished several key milestones in moving toward 5G. Along with our Tech Forum partners, we completed radio specifications, which means that we can now test technical components for wireless fiber services. We have ongoing technical trials in several markets to accelerate the pace of innovation, and we are strengthening our partnerships with carriers and OEMs to foster the development of a global ecosystem.

So we see the stars aligning very quickly when it comes to the 5G future. We have been very pleased by the partnership with the FCC to finalize the 5G spectrum rules. All of this keeps us on track to be the first carrier to deploy a 5G network in the United States, preparing us for a fixed commercial wireless fiber launch in 2017 and laying the foundation to build mobility use cases later in the decade.

Through every generation of technology, our fundamental principles remain the same, highest quality, consistent investment, customer value, and, yes, superior execution. This dedication to network quality has created the best wireless network in the world. Maintaining and extending that leadership remains the number one priority of the Company.

With the other two tiers of our three-part strategy, we are developing the platforms, content, and applications that will drive usage on our network and monetize our investment in this world class infrastructure. Let me review our progress in these areas starting with video.

As you know, we've been building our video assets and capabilities for some time with a goal of building a global platform and developing new business models for reaching the digital video customer. At the heart of this video evolution are the changing ways in which younger consumers access their digital and mobile content.

Over the past several years we have dramatically expanded the ways in which we can deliver content wherever and however the digital customer wants it, including large and small bundles of linear content through FiOS TV; new and better customer experiences for FiOS using IP-based technology; over-the-top delivery of content; purchasing of AOL, with its publishing and advertising technology and content; further enhancing AOL with the Millennial Media acquisition; introducing go90 and its vast library of digital content, not only for our Verizon customers, but other carriers' customers as well; developing a global video distribution for media companies to efficiently deliver high-quality digital content; and finally, establishing a content joint venture with Hearst through which we have invested in two leading digital brands for female and male Millennials, namely AwesomenessTV and Complex Media.

We assembled a great team and strong assets under Marni Walden. Just over the past year since the AOL acquisition, we have learned a tremendous amount about the video market and opportunities to grow in the future. Her team is focused on integrating these assets and driving profitable growth by attracting viewers through great content, which, in turn, attracts advertisers by increasing the return on their advertising dollar.

That brings us to Yahoo. We see tremendous opportunity in the digital video marketplace, which has an estimated addressable market of $180 billion by 2020.

Today that marketplace is dominated by two brands. Content creators and advertisers are hungry for alternatives as the market expands for both in-home and mobile consumption. Verizon intends to be a significant player in this space.

By acquiring Yahoo's operating business, we are scaling up to be a major competitor in mobile media. Yahoo's operations provide a valuable portfolio of online properties and mobile applications, which attract over 1 billion monthly active consumer views.

It also brings market-leading content, brands in sports, finance, news, and email into the portfolio. It expands our analytics and ad tech capabilities and enhances our competitive position and value proposition to advertisers. We are already seeing enthusiasm from partners in sports, news, and finance to leverage this scale in the future.

Yahoo's operations complement AOL's business, as well as our overall asset portfolio. The global scale, volume of customer analytics, and market reach of the combined assets will allow us to create long-term value in a less capital-intensive manner.

We look forward to working with a very talented team at Yahoo. In the months ahead we will be focused on completing the necessary regulatory process, planning for integration, and closing this cash transaction early next year. Going forward, this acquisition will put us in a great position as a top global media company and give us a significant source of revenue growth for the future.

We are also building our growth capabilities in the emerging Internet of Things market by developing business models to monetize usage on our network at the connectivity and platform layers. We had another quarter of 25% growth in revenue from the Internet of Things, which amounted to approximately $205 million in the quarter and about $400 million year-to-date in 2016. We've also seen strong demand for our telematics products, including our direct-to-consumer product, hum, and see many opportunities to expand in the market.

In June we agreed to acquire Telogis, which will advance our fleet telematics connected solutions and expand our distribution relationships while we grow our global scale. So as we are making tremendous strides strategically, John Stratton and his operations team are not taking their eye off the ball when it comes to operational performance. I am pleased with where we stand as we reach the midpoint of the year.

In Wireless, we've made significant progress in shifting away from the subsidy model with 53% of our postpaid phone base now on unsubsidized price plans. At the same time, our churn metrics continue to be the best in the industry, which is a testimony to our high-quality loyal customer base. Fran is going to cover more of that in a few minutes.

In Wireline, we completed the sale of three properties to Frontier, which concentrates our Wireline assets in the Northeast corridor, where we can further invest in fiber. We also managed through a seven-week work stoppage, ultimately reaching an outcome that benefited our employees and our business. While the strike impacted the results in the second quarter, the new labor contracts will generate approximately $500 million of cash savings over the term of the contract.

The contract benefits include workforce flexibility provisions that provide the opportunity to optimize processes and scale customer service center to better align with the business needs. Also, non-cash benefit savings primarily related to retiree healthcare will be realized. We preserved the bargained-for caps on our annual obligation for post-retirement medical benefits, which, when netted with other post-retirement benefit changes, reduced our unfunded employee benefit obligation by $4.7 billion in the quarter.

I would like to thank our management employees for stepping in and serving our customers day in and day out during the strike. We are proud that our customer satisfaction results remained strong during this time, which demonstrates not only our planning, but our commitment to placing customers first in our business.

I would also like to thank the vast majority of our associates for the respectful way in which they conducted themselves during the work stoppage. We look forward to continuing to work with our represented employees to better serve our customers and create work environments that will allow all of our employees to grow professionally.

Overall, we continue to make progress on reducing our cost structure through workforce reductions and the new labor contract benefits that we just discussed. As always, we are focused on driving efficiencies through our ongoing Lean Six Sigma program.

So as I look at the first half of 2016, I am pleased with what we have accomplished in a fast-moving challenging environment and how far we have come repositioning ourselves strategically for the next decade.

Now let me turn the call over to Fran to review second-quarter performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 5.

FRAN SHAMMO, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thank you, Lowell. Good morning, everyone. On a reported basis, total operating revenue declined 5.3% in the second quarter. If we exclude the second-quarter 2015 revenues from the operations that we divested and exclude this quarter's revenue from AOL, which was not part of our operations a year ago, adjusted operating revenue would have declined approximately 3.5% on a comparable year-over-year basis.

AOL, once again, delivered strong revenue growth in the quarter. In Wireless, service revenue, as expected, was pressured by the migration of our postpaid subscriber base to unsubsidized price plans. Equipment revenue was also under pressure, due primarily to lower postpaid phone activations.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled about $11.1 billion and our adjusted EBITDA margin was 36.3% in the quarter, compared to $11.8 billion a year ago. As Lowell just reviewed, we are reducing our overall cost structure by improving productivity and gaining efficiency in our operations throughout the business, which will enable us to deliver a strong earnings profile into the future.

Let's turn now to cash flows on the balance sheet on slide 6.

Cash flows from operations were $5.4 billion in the second quarter. Through the first half of the year, cash flows from operations totaled $12.8 billion, which is down $6.1 billion on a year-over-year basis, driven by the cash received from the tower transaction of $2.4 billion in the first quarter of 2015, a change in our method of monetizing device payment receivables, and an increase in cash taxes.

Most of our device payment plan receivables originated in the second quarter were retained in contemplation of an asset-backed securitization transaction the third quarter. This timing resulted in approximately $1.6 billion of working capital pressure.

Free cash flow for the first half of the year totaled $5.6 billion. Subsequent to the quarter, we completed our first on-balance-sheet asset-backed securitization transaction with net proceeds of $1.1 billion for which there was significant investor demand. Going forward, we expect to finance new device payment plan receivable originations with on-balance-sheet securitizations with a mix of bank transactions or public transactions.

Public or 144a on-balance-sheet securitizations as a funding channel provides several benefits, including diversification and lower borrowing costs with AAA rating. Favorable captive finance treatment from two credit rating agencies is an offset to the financial statement impacts of on-balance-sheet financing. The financial statements will reflect an increase in receivables as new loans are originated and debt will also reflect new securitization financing.

Going forward, the cash flow statement will reflect securitization proceeds in financing cash flow rather than operating cash flow. As a result, using on-balance-sheet financing will result in lower cash flows from operations and, therefore, lower free cash flow, but will not reduce the cash we have available to run the business as we plan to continue to securitize a significant amount of our receivables portfolio. We will provide additional disclosures on securitization in the third quarter.

Cash taxes are higher compared to a year ago as certain benefits that we realized in the prior period did not recur and timing of tax deductions for early debt retirements varied. Cash taxes will increase in the second half of the year, primarily due to the taxes that will be paid related to the sale of our Wireline operations which are approximately $3.2 billion.

Our disciplined capital allocation model demonstrates our commitment to investing in businesses for the future. Capital expenditures were $3.9 billion in the quarter and $7.3 billion for the first half of the year. While the first-half trend is lower than expected due to timing and the strike impact in Wireline, we reiterate our full-year capital guidance of $17.2 billion to $17.7 billion.

We ended the quarter with $99.7 billion of total debt, net debt of $96.9 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.2 times, which includes the liability management that we did in the quarter. We remain on track to return to our pre-Vodafone credit rating profile by the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.

Now let's move into reviews of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 7.

Total Wireless operating revenues declined 4% in the quarter to $21.7 billion. Service revenue of $16.7 billion declined 5.4% for the quarter, an improvement from the year-over-year decline of 6.2% in the first quarter. Equipment revenue was $3.7 billion, down 4.1% due to lower activations.

Service revenue plus installment billings increased 2.3% to $19.1 billion in the second quarter. While service revenue will continue to be pressured by the migration of our customer base to the unsubsidized price plans, the decline has flattened as expected now that we have approximately 53% of our postpaid phone customers on the unsubsidized price plans.

We recently refreshed the Verizon plans to enable increased customer control. We believe the pricing plans are resonating with our customers, providing value and functionality. As with any new pricing plan, we expect some account optimization early on and we remain confident that we will return to year-over-year service revenue growth by the fourth quarter of 2017.

The percentage of phone activations on device payment plans was about 67% in the second quarter, compared with about 68% in the first quarter. The take rate, which was lower than our expectations, was due primarily to a higher mix of business customers in our overall postpaid phone activations for the quarter.

We expect the take rate for device payment plans for the third quarter to be consistent with recent experience. We recognize that new device launches could have an impact on take-rate levels, but at this point it is too early to forecast any changes.

During the quarter, 5.2 million phones were activated on a device payment plan. In total, we have about 31.8 million phone connections activated on a device payment plan, representing about 37% of our postpaid phone base.

In terms of profitability, we generated $10.3 billion of segment EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 3.8%, and had a segment EBITDA margin of 47.5%, up from 43.9% a year ago.

Now let's take a closer look at Wireless additions on slide 8.

Postpaid net adds, which does not include any wholesale connections including Internet of Things, totaled 615,000. Overall, postpaid net additions declined sequentially, primarily due to increased tablet churn. Net phone additions increased sequentially to 86,000. We added 462,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were offset by a net decline of 250,000 basic phones. The remaining offset in phone net adds were 3G devices.

Tablet net adds totaled 356,000. All other postpaid devices totaling 173,000 were added during the quarter with Verizon Wireless retail hum devices being the primary driver. Net prepaid devices declined by 30,000 for the quarter, which is a significant improvement sequentially and from the prior year due to the impact new pricing plans for our prepaid market.

Postpaid gross additions were 3.7 million, down from 3.9 million a year ago and flat sequentially. Retail postpaid churn was 0.94%, up 4 basis points from the prior year. We continue to see strong retention in our phone base, which is being offset by increasing tablet churn stemming from the free tablet promotions from two years ago. We expect the higher rates of tablet churn to continue throughout the entire year.

We ended the quarter with 113.2 million total retail connections, excluding all wholesale connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 3.9% to 107.8 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.4 million. Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 9.

Total postpaid device activations were 9.5 million in the quarter, down 4.3% sequentially and nearly 16.2% on a year-over-year basis. Approximately 81% of these activations were phones, with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations. About 5.4% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the second quarter. This represents a decline of 180 basis points.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 10.

Consumer revenue declined 0.3% and mass markets, which include small business, declined 1.2% on a comparable basis, excluding the property sold to Frontier. FiOS total revenue grew 3.7%. FiOS revenue was strong, even with the work stoppage and a high prior-year comparable pay-per-view fight event.

The growth in FiOS is driven by a higher customer base and the demand for higher Internet speeds. Approximately 11% of our FiOS Internet base has opted for speeds of 100 megabits or greater. We continue to see the downsizing of our video bundles and increased appetite for our custom TV package, which represented nearly 40% of FiOS video sales in the quarter.

FiOS subscriber growth was impacted by the work stoppage in the second quarter. We made significant progress on working through the backlog of new installations in June and expect to return to a normal run rate in the third quarter.

In FiOS video, net customers declined 41,000 of the quarter. FiOS Internet net adds were negative 13,000 and net broadband subscribers decreased by 83,000. FiOS video penetration was 34.6% in the quarter, compared to 35.5% in the prior year, representing a decline of 90 basis points. FiOS Internet penetration was 40.1% in the quarter compared to 39.8% in the prior year, representing an increase of 30 basis points. We believe we have an opportunity to further penetrate the markets we serve.

Let's turn to slide 11 and cover Enterprise and Wholesale, as well as the Wireline segment in total.

Total operating revenues for the Wireline segment declined 2.4% in the second quarter, due to technology transitions and pricing pressures. In the second quarter, global enterprise revenue declined 3.3% and, on a constant currency basis, the decline was about the same.

In our global Wholesale business, revenues declined 4.1% in the second quarter. Trends in our Enterprise global Wholesale businesses remain consistent with prior periods.

Wireline segment EBITDA margin the quarter was 14%, which includes the impact of work stoppage compared to 18.7% in the prior year. The pre-tax financial impact of the strike in the quarter was $489 million on the Wireline segment. In terms of improving the overall margin, we made improvements in cost structure by optimizing our workforce and expect benefits from the new labor contracts to be realized during the remainder of 2016 and in future years.

Wireline capitalized labor expenditures slowed in the second quarter as we prioritized maintenance and repair activities over new installations during the work stoppage. We expect capital spending levels to increase in the second half of the year as we return to normal operations after the work stoppage.

Let's move next to our summary slide.

As expected, 2016 is a significant transformational year for us. We are focused on executing operationally, strategically, and financially to deliver results today and prepare the business for future profitable growth. In the first half of the year in Wireless, we added 1.3 million postpaid net customers and stabilized our Wireless service revenue declines. In Wireline, we completed the sale of the operations in California, Florida, and Texas and negotiated new labor contracts which will have benefits into the future. We continue to be the network leader in the markets we serve and we are setting the business up for growth.

In our new businesses, we enhanced our video and Internet of Things platforms to position us for long-term growth and are demonstrating progress. We are very excited about the work that has already been done, the integration of assets that we are beginning to do, and the acquisition of Yahoo to accelerate our video platforms.

As we enter the second half of the year, we are confident in our ability to execute and drive results. We are on course for our 2016 guidance and expectations: full-year adjusted earnings to be at a level comparable to 2015, excluding the $0.07 impact of work stoppage; consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin consistent with full-year 2015; consolidated capital spending between $17.2 billion and $17.7 billion; a minimum pension funding requirement of approximately $550 million; and our effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes to be in the range of 35% to 36%. We also expect GDP-type growth in consolidated revenue for the full-year 2017.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Tori, we are now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. Maybe a couple of quick questions for Lowell.

Lowell, first of all, could you give us an early look at the synergies that you see coming with the Yahoo transaction? And with it behind you now, do you feel that you have the assets you need to execute on the new media strategy? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Good morning, John, and good morning, everyone. I understand there were lots of rumors about me announcing a big reorganization of the Company, so I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I think we have some pretty exciting things to talk about here.

First, on Yahoo synergy. Look, certainly, as we went into the auction process, we had a very good idea of what the synergies could be. I think probably we were the only significant bidder that had synergies.

So we have a good idea and we've heard numbers bantered around that are in the ballpark, but my view on this, John, is we now enter a phase where, post the auction diligence, which is certainly limited, we can go in and talk to management and see a much greater depth of information. And we will validate our plans and make our decisions.

So I think as we get closer to closing, which we expect will be either at the end of the year or early in the first quarter, we will announce those numbers. But they are meaningful, let me just put it that way.

On the "do we have the assets we need," certainly yesterday when Marni and Tim did their public interviews; we are extremely excited about the assets that Yahoo has in the areas of sports and finance and email and news. You match those up with AOL; we've just made an exponential leap in capabilities here.

But I will give you the answer that I always give you, John, when we talk about capital and you say, well, are you finally done expanding and are you going to reduce your capital? And my answer always is, I hope not, because if we do then we are standing still and this is such a dynamic environment, we should be looking for additional things to meet customers' needs.

I fully expect that when Tim and Marissa put their heads together, we will have a long list. And we will be disciplined, as we always are, and they will be good investments that will drive us to take a larger share of this growing market.

So there's been a lot made of are we going to challenge Google and Facebook in this process. I just say, look, we plan on being a significant player here. The market is going to grow dramatically.

We're a small player today relative to them. All we need to do is take more than our fair share of the growth of the market and this will be a success for us, and we certainly expect to do better than that.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much, good morning. Fran, I think you were one of the early ones to talk about elongating handset cycles. I think what we've seen so far with three companies reporting is very low upgrade rates, relatively low switching, but also low adds, low churn.

To what extent do you think this is typical pre-iPhone lull or do you think we are in a new environment of more subdued activity going forward? In particular, as you think about your growth, you talked about the ARPU stabilizing and service revenues returning, but you also need stronger volume growth. What can you do to stimulate more of the phone adds as we go forward here? Thanks.

And anything you can say on the data center sale as well would be appreciated.

FRAN SHAMMO: Great, thanks, Simon. On handset cycles, so two viewpoints here. One is obviously we saw a similar trend, maybe not this dramatic, in 2014 where we saw a slowdown in the first half of the year in anticipation of iconic phones that were coming up on a two-year cycle. So I think some of it could be that.

Unfortunately for us, though, we have our first set of EIP customers coming up on their two-year anniversary and there's not enough volume yet of those customers to really get a behavior track, if you will, whether they are going to hold their phone and take a $20 to $25 discount on their bill or if they are just waiting for a new phone. So I think it's too early to tell. We will have a better feel for this as we go into the third quarter and that's why in my prepared remarks I said it's too early to re-forecast. But as I have said consistently, I think our volumes will be similar to 2015.

As far as how do we stimulate smartphone growth, look, I've been saying for over a year now that smartphone growth is going to continue to slow and we have to look at other areas for that growth. Obviously tablets being one and we have a little bit of a headwind there. But if you look at the gross adds of tablets, we added over 1 million tablets this quarter, so we are having pressure in the churn metric for that free tablet promotion that we did two years ago and we will continue to have that pressure throughout the rest of the year.

But if you look at the momentum of hum and you look at the other ads that we did, these are the types of devices that we want to add to the account to increase our revenue overall. If you look at the underlying I-ARPA, which is the installment and revenue per unit, that increased to 2.6% this quarter, so you can see the underlying revenue of our base is actually increasing. Unfortunately, you are not seeing it in the results because the math of moving from the subsidized to the unsubsidized is declining that.

The last comment I will make here on this topic is service revenue. You saw the 80 basis point improvement on service revenue, and as we have continued to say, once we crossed over that 50% mark -- and now we're at 53% of the base on the unsubsidized pricing -- we are starting to see that service revenue math take effect and that decline starting to reverse.

So 80 basis points this quarter; I continue to see that through the rest of the year we will improve. I will say that there won't be as much of an improvement in third quarter because of the new pricing and some of the optimization, but we will see improvement. And I continue to see this trend going through the end of 2017, which I'm still confident that we will show accretion at the end of 2017.

Finally, on the data center sales, we are coming to an end of the process and we will probably come to a definitive answer in the third quarter as to whether we're going to move forward or we are not. So I will hold comment for the third quarter for that.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: If I could follow up on Yahoo for a moment, in a letter that was picked up by the press from Yahoo's CEO yesterday, it referred to Verizon's goal to get to a global audience of 2 billion users and $20 billion of revenue within the mobile media business by 2020.

I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about that goal in a couple of respects in terms of what are the key strategies to get that growth. Is it simply just leveraging the assets you have or --? Can you give us a little more color on how you look to maybe manage them differently than they've been managed in the past?

Then secondly, how should investors think about the profitability of that type of revenue in this category over time? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Let me take the strategic question and then Fran can talk a little bit more about the profit side.

Mike, I think this is similar to my answer to John's question. We've got a perspective going into this and we will refine it as we go along. But if you take a look at the interest that we have received from AOL current partners as well as new partners, we think there is a huge opportunity in the following areas.

First, in the sports area. As you know, we've got relationships with a lot of the big leagues; certainly NFL and NBA are the headliners for us. I've spoken with both Roger Goodell and Adam Silver in the last few weeks about this and I think we are very excited. And I expect over the next few months you will see more details about the plan of what we can do with their content, not only in season but out of season.

And there are other sports leagues that we have the opportunity to work with. Some of the other big names I'm not going to tip our hand here just yet, but the networks and their sports channels see an opportunity to partner with us.

They may already have NBA rights or NFL rights and we can work on streaming their games, not only through the traditional channels of FiOS, either custom TV or the full bundles, but over AOL and Yahoo and then finally over go90. So we view this as a waterfall of content moving down through our different properties.

The next one is Yahoo Finance; that's probably their strongest asset today. We learn more about that. But as you look at, again, some of the networks that have finance channels and, frankly, some of the other folks that were bidding on this, we think there is an opportunity for us to work with them in partnership to realize some of their visions and some of our visions.

Then certainly news, as you would expect, and the email platforms. We see ways that we can combine some of our assets and some of their assets -- the TechCrunch, the Engadget, The Huffington Post -- and we can drive a lot of visits to the site.

So I think the difference for us is we have a lot of -- us versus the Yahoo management, we have a lot of the relationships well established because of our FiOS and our mobile assets. And we can combine them with their platforms and their leadership expertise to deliver a very good lineup here.

So I think on the profitability side, Fran, I don't know any comments you have on that. But that's where we are headed from a strategic perspective, Mike.

FRAN SHAMMO: Mike, what I would say is everything that Lowell said and we're looking at this as a portfolio of assets. As I said during this whole process, look, Yahoo brings viewers; viewers brings advertising; advertising brings top-line growth.

So the first thing here is to scale to drive that top-line growth. We believe that with the combination of all these assets we have a lot of revenue synergy upside, so the first will be to drive the top line and then, as Tim has shown, along with Yahoo team, we will drive the profitability that's required to generate the cash flow that we forecast. So that the top priority right now.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks so much, guys, for taking the questions. Maybe two if I could.

First, Fran, you highlighted a GDP level of revenue growth next year. I think in the past you've talked about a kind of mid to high single-digit normal earnings growth expectations for next year. Could you just confirm that those two are the same thing?

And then second, just I think in Lowell's commentary he referenced a view that spectrum is not necessarily the be-all end-all for creating capacity at the margin. In the notes out this morning, you noted that 93% of the data traffic is on LTE capacity. I was wondering if you could refresh us as to where or how much of your spectrum portfolio is dedicated to LTE and how much is still available to be tapped to kind of continue to support that 40%-plus growth rate in consumption. Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: David, thanks for your question. Let me go first on the spectrum side and then Fran can cover the first part of your question about growth rates.

Today, just to say it, about 50% of our spectrum is dedicated to 4G LTE. We still have some spectrum on 2G. We are refarming our CDMA spectrum as we go forward and I expect that we've got plenty of headroom here.

The point of my comments, and Boston is our good example there, is the farther we push fiber out into the network the more small-cell technology works for us. And the cost trade-off that we expected prior to the last auction told us that we would be better off going with the small cells than we would paying the prices that the spectrum was demanding.

At the Super Bowl last year, we went in and built out San Francisco and proved that thesis was correct. We were actually more conservative than we needed to be. The Boston effort that we've got underway now will further solidify that opinion.

Then, as we densify the network for 4G, it sets us up perfectly for deploying 5G with the millimeter wave technology. So we are extremely pleased that the FCC approved the XO lease arrangement yesterday, because now we have a clear field in front of us to not only densify with 4G, but use that same capital dollar to get the infrastructure in place for 5G. So we think we're in a very strong competitive position.

FRAN SHAMMO: David, on the second part, on the 2017 numbers: yes, GDP revenue growth for 2017. We have done a lot of work behind this obviously; what we've talked about around service revenue plays a big factor in this and the comps year over year. But we believe some of these other things start to really generate some top-line revenue, like IoT, 25% year-over-year growth rate now. We see that accelerating.

Tablets, we believe once we get through the churn headwind of the free promo, they will become a bigger contributing factor next year. So there's a lot of things that go into that, but we are pretty confident on that GDP growth.

Then on the bottom line, all I've said -- I've never given a percentage, but all I've said is a normal growth rate for Verizon. What that means is exclude the last two prior years where we bought Vodafone and got a 10% increment over our normal growth rate and then, of course, the prior year, which was impacted by the EIP accounting.

So that's all I've said and we'll talk more about that when we get to the first quarter of next year.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First of all, can you help us understand the progress on the 5G trials? What are you learning about the cost of deployment, usable distances, and speeds?

Then, Fran, you mentioned tablets are slower but you do expect a rebound once churn falls away. Do these add value? Is it mostly just tacking on, pulling those customers in more tightly, or do they actually add value economically on their own? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay, I will take the first part again on 5G. What we've had so far, Phil, is we've got a big deployment down in Dallas working with Ericsson and Nokia. We've got several in New Jersey and some down in Virginia.

We have typically seen speeds above 1 gigabit over, let's just say, 500 yards or less, because of the combined space that we've got available to us. With that sort of speed we've been able to put up six ultra high-definition TVs, six virtual-reality units, numerous tablets, etc., so those services are only drawing in the 300 to 400 megs of throughput. So lots of headroom.

Now the process we are moving into now is actually going out into a field environment where we can cover a 200-home development and see with normal vegetation, with difference in weather patterns, where we think this -- these critical parameters are going to go. Theoretically, it looks -- 1,000 meters or so between cell sites seems to be reasonable, but again, we've got to verify that. We're going to go into some rural environments to see whether that propagation changes based on demand. We will know a lot more as we go along.

From a pure cost perspective, again I think it's a little too early to tell, but what I will tell you is about half of our cost to deploy FiOS is in the home today and the next biggest thing outside the home is the drop. And so our take is that with the router roughly costing the same -- and, remember, we wouldn't have to have an ONT as we think about it today.

So when we deploy 4G and densify that small cell can contain 5G for very little incremental cost. With the router in the house being probably less than an ONT and router combination today and losing the wiring in the house and losing the drop, we expect there to be a significant cost reduction.

But we will know a lot more as we finish these trials. I fully expect that as we wrap these trials up we will actually be bringing some analysts and some of the media to the field to take a look at these deployments so that you can judge for yourself.

FRAN SHAMMO: Then, Phil, on the second part on tablets, so absolutely we view tablets as adding value. Traditionally you would say, well, a tablet that is added to a wireless account just gives you a minimal amount of access revenue and that's far less than a smartphone. And all that is true.

But if you look at the entire ecosystem that we are developing here, more people who have tablets we know watch more video on a tablet. And if you think about what Lowell outlined on our whole video strategy along with go90, AOL, Yahoo coming into the portfolio fold, we are trying to drive more usage into these devices and we want those users to consume content, which then ultimately drives advertising.

So we're looking at the value of these instruments, if you will, more from a holistic standpoint. Yes, today it's 11.4% of the base. I still believe that there is a huge growth opportunity here in the base with tablets and where technology is going. And that is going to generate not only access revenue on the Wireless side of the house, but it's also going to generate a lot of, if you will, MediaCo type revenue for the future portfolio of digital advertising.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thank you for taking the questions. Two, if I may.

Just following up on Phil's point, Lowell, you mentioned doing in Boston into other cities. Can I just explore that a little bit? Are you talking in your franchise footprint, your Wireline footprint, or going outside of that? Because I guess the logical next question would be, outside of that, how do you work with the incumbents there if you are kind of trying to cannibalize their main business?

Then, secondly, if you can offer any commentary on FirstNet, if you guys are there, and any thoughts on that. Thanks a lot.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay, first on the cities, Jennifer. Absolutely; there's no boundary here on our Wireline footprint. Obviously we have a stronger position in the Washington to Boston corridor. We can move to market more quickly, but we don't view that as a barrier at all.

In fact, we are talking to other cities. I mentioned San Francisco because we made a huge deployment with the Super Bowl and we're going to leverage that in our work with them. But there's no boundary.

Now, as far as cannibalization, there's an awful lot of dark fiber providers out there. We've had a lot of discussions with them and they are very happy to sell, and they've got very good footprints that get deep into some of these networks.

As I mentioned, we've obviously just purchased XO; 40 metro fiber rings, which get us into a very strong position. And there's companies out there like XO so we don't view any issue there.

As far as FirstNet, under federal contracting rules we really can't comment about that while there's an RFP in process so I'm sorry I can't make any comment there.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking the question. Lowell, early on you started off talking about the importance of network. It's interesting; investors have increasingly been asking whether networks really are sufficiently differentiated versus what we have been accustomed to. And of course, some of your competitors are arguing that actually there is not a lot of differentiation anymore and people should be more focused on things like price. So I was hoping we could come back to that.

Then just if we think about the evolution of how you've differentiated. It used to be you differentiated on the reliability of voice; more recently it's been the reliability of data and data speeds. Where is the battleground shifting and how are you going to make sure you continue to be differentiated based on where that's going?

LOWELL MCADAM: Brett, thanks. You know, I think since we started with the original network reliability message back in 2000, those that weren't number one have constantly said networks don't matter. And customers have voted that networks do matter and all you have to do is look at the churn.

I would argue that if you need to sell your product at half of what Verizon sells theirs, that's proof alone that networks matter if you have to take that sort of a haircut. I know it's shocking, but occasionally advertisements are out there that aren't completely truthful. But that's the world that we live in.

As far as differentiation, as we say around the business, I think we've said this in other -- I don't think it's made it to an ad yet, but "can you hear me now" has really moved to "can you see me now." And that's because we've moved away from voice being a channel and an application by itself on these networks to it just rides the data stream.

And so the throughputs, the latency, that's where the battleground shifts. How we stay ahead is by densifying the 4G LTE network, but then driving very hard to 5G. Because we have seen this time and time again throughout the history of Verizon, and I would argue throughout the history of wireless, is if you build it they will come. And the more we build, the more speeds that we deliver, the more ubiquitous the network is, the customers just soak up that broadband capacity.

Verizon has always been the one that is pushing the envelope here and we continue to do that. So I hope everyone on the call sees that by aggressively moving to densification and then using that same infrastructure to build out 5G, Verizon is going to stay on the leading edge for the next decade.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, MOFFETTNATHANSON: Thank you, two quick questions if I could. Lowell, can you talk about the FCC's privacy NPRM and what could be significantly stricter rules for ISPs like Verizon relative to edge providers like Google or Facebook? Did that impact your thinking about what you could pay for Yahoo and how you monetize Yahoo in any way?

Then second, just a more tactical question. Can you talk about the FiOS installation backlogs coming out of the work stoppage and what we can expect with some rebound there?

LOWELL MCADAM: Good morning, Craig. So on the FCC privacy NPRM -- and I would also apply this to the set-top box side. You know we are not a big fan of regulation in general; we would rather let the markets work. But if there's going to be regulation, then we think it ought to be for all the players in the ecosystem.

And I know, and I've talked with Tom Wheeler and I have great respect for what he is doing. He has only got so many tools in his toolbox to help set some of the standards here, but we are encouraging a broader action here that might involve the FTC or others so that everyone in the ecosystem is treated the same. And I think that's our philosophy on set-top box; that's our philosophy on privacy.

Did it impact us on Yahoo? No, not particularly. We look at that as a standalone business. Certainly, the regulatory environment always enters into your thinking, but we would do Yahoo regardless of however that NPRM turns out and we think it's going to be a dynamic business for us going forward. So I hope that helps.

FRAN SHAMMO: Craig, one thing on the FiOS installation backlogs, yes, obviously coming out of the -- when we settled with the representative employees there was a large backlog. I would tell you, as we sit here right now today, that backlog is down to a normal, but I would say that in my prepared remarks I said we would get back to a normal growth in the third quarter.

But I will caveat that comment and say that, look, during the strike we discontinued all advertising and it takes about 60 to 90 days to ramp that backup. So albeit the third quarter will be more positive quarter for us, it probably won't be as much as a normal third quarter for us. So a little less than norm and then we feel that we will be back in stride by fourth quarter.

So that kind of lays the land of how we think about FiOS backlog and installation going forward.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: We have time for one last question if you can place that through.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, guys. Fran, between 5G and if you look at platform and solutions, how much could this drive your overall revenue growth in 2018, 2019? Is this enough to drive almost all the GDP-like growth that you are looking for?

And just maybe on the platform side, can you talk about what partners really like most about the platform and what else you are looking to do to it to kind of make it unique to attract more content partners? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: I'll let Fran take the first part there, Tim. The second part I assume you're assuming Yahoo, right?

TIM HORAN: Correct, sorry. And AOL.

LOWELL MCADAM: Look, I think the items that I mentioned around the sports, finance, and news are really the big items there. If you look at Tim's numbers, he is in the hundreds of millions of users. Yahoo is well over 1 billion users. So you start putting those numbers together and there's some significant reach here.

I think every content provider, and I think it's fair to say whether you are an advocate for the 300 channel bundle or over-the-top, you realize that this is moving more and more toward digital distribution. And the partnership of AOL and Yahoo gives them the ability to reach those specific customers.

If you look at our purchase of Complex, Complex has more visitors per month now than ESPN does in that male Millennial and AwesomenessTV has the same sort of numbers for female Millennials. So it gives -- whether you are thinking you are part of a large network sports distribution or you are the actual league or you are trying to deliver finance or other news, being able to tap into that is a huge opportunity.

The big advertisers have come to us saying that they have more ads to place than they have good places to put them and so you will hear from us over the next several months some partnerships and some agreements to place ads with us.

Then the final, probably obvious one to everyone, but we have 113.2 million mobile users and people are accessing all of this content via their mobile device. We will be one of the few that can deliver advertising and content across the home, across the mobile device, and across the Internet. We think that puts us in a very, very strong position.

FRAN SHAMMO: Then, Tim, on the second part of this, I can honestly tell you that within the comments I made there is actually nothing related to 5G as far as revenue goes. And the reason for that is because we looked at 2017 as a development year for 5G.

By the time that we get the licenses -- now we've got a great ruling yesterday by the FCC on allowing us to use the leases, so that could accelerate some of that. But I will tell you, to get to a commercial launch and actually start to generate revenue; I think that will come in either very late 2017, early 2018. But there is nothing in the forecast right now based on the guidance I gave.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Okay, that's all the time for questions, but before we end the call I would like to turn it back to Lowell.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay. Thank you, Mike. I would also like to thank Fran for taking us through the results and, all of the analysts, I appreciate your questions. I wish we could have gotten to more, but Mike will be available throughout the day.

I know we also have a lot of reporters on the phone and Jim Gerace and our public relations team will be available to answer your questions. Both Fran and I will be out visiting with our large investors over the next several weeks, so we expect to be able to tell our story and answer more questions on a number of fronts here.

I realize that it's been a long call today and we covered a lot of topics, both operationally and strategically. But given what we said last year about 2016 being a plateau for us on earnings and given the acquisitions that we have completed, obviously Yahoo the most significant now in front of us, we thought it was good to give you this sort of an overview and update.

Before we end, I just want to make sure we have a few points that don't get lost. The team is very focused on delivering on our fundamental operational execution. We continue to be a leader in network quality and customer loyalty and in financial performance.

On the strategic front, obviously we are aggressively building new businesses with revenue and ecosystems that are expanding the industry and enhancing the revenue profile of the Company. Certainly we don't kid ourselves about execution. We have been executing, bringing new businesses into the portfolio since we started this back in 1999, but just as we have in the past, we are determined to lead the next growth surge and create value for our shareholders. Hopefully, after today you see that path as clearly as we do.

So thank you all for covering Verizon and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference service. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | boston : Boston | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usma : Massachusetts | usnew : New England
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160727ec7q001ba
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,448 words
   PD
21 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Mike Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MIKE STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Tori. Good morning and welcome to our first-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on the investor relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our safe harbor statement on slide 2. Today's presentation includes forward-looking statements about expected future events and financial results that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may affect future results are discussed in Verizon's filings with the SEC.

This presentation includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found on our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran goes through these results, I would like to highlight a few items. For the first quarter of 2016, we reported earnings of $1.06 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results include a few nonoperational items that I would like to highlight.

Our reported earnings include a non-cash pretax loss of $165 million for a pension mark-to-market adjustment due to settlement accounting. We expect settlement accounting to impact earnings in each of the remaining quarters in 2016. Additionally, we recognized a pretax gain of $142 million on a spectrum license transaction.

On an after-tax basis, the loss on settlement accounting amounted to $102 million, or $0.02 per share, and the gain on the spectrum transaction amounted to $88 million, or $0.02 per share, effectively offsetting each other. Including the effect of these nonoperational items, earnings per share of $1.06 in the first quarter compared to $1.02 per share a year ago for a growth rate of 3.9%. There were no special items of a nonoperational nature in the first quarter of 2015.

As a reminder, our Wireline results for the first quarter included the operations from the three states that we sold to Frontier on April 1, 2016. As we have done over the past year, we have recognized a full-quarter benefit of approximately $229 million pretax, or about $0.03 per share, due to these assets being classified as held for sale. This compares to $146 million pretax benefit, or $0.02 per share, that we recognized in the first quarter of 2015. Additionally, the operations of AOL are not included in prior-period results.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. We remain confident in our three-tier strategy for long-term growth, which is to lead at the network connectivity level in the markets we serve, develop new business models through the global platforms in video and Internet of Things, and create incremental revenue opportunities in applications and content.

In terms of progress on this multi-tier strategy, we are focused on network leadership and operating efficiency while we develop new ecosystems in video and the Internet of Things, leveraging our capabilities in the United States and scaling our platforms globally. We are also developing a portfolio of unique content targeted at the Millennial generation so that we can capitalize on the opportunity transforming mobile.

At the network connectivity layer, we consistently invest in our 4G LTE network to accommodate growth in data usage and enable customers to experience an unmatched level of connectivity. National studies continue to recognize Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader. Having the best network does matter, as reflected in our strong customer retention that we will discuss later.

We are enhancing capacity and coverage by effectively managing our spectrum, further densifying areas of significant usage, and implementing a number of optimization techniques such as carrier aggregation. Approximately 92% of our total data traffic is now on the LTE network. The amount of data on the network increased at a rate of approximately 50% over the prior year.

Over the long term, densification of our Wireless network, particularly in urban and concentrated usage areas, is required to add capacity to manage these growing consumption trends, as well as to pre-position ourselves for the 5G technology of the future.

A key element of this densification strategy is access to fiber. During the quarter we announced our intention to acquire XO Communications, which will provide us the opportunity to deepen and expand our fiber assets nationwide, as well as to lease millimeter-wave spectrum for 5G testing purposes with the option to buy.

We are also very excited about the announcement made last week to deploy a new fiber platform within the city of Boston that will support wireless and wireline technologies to consumers and enterprises across the city in a network-efficient way. This approach gives us tremendous flexibility to innovate, develop, and deliver services with a mix of technologies over the same fiber assets.

In terms of 5G, our technical testing is going well and there is a strong interest and commitment from members of the 5G Forum to prepare for fixed wireless commercial pilots using the technology next year.

Improving our operating cost structure is a priority. We will continue work on our operating model and are confident that we can improve efficiencies as we have done in the past. We remain focused on cost reductions throughout the entire business and are making progress in driving efficiencies, reducing overhead costs, and streamlining support. We have several initiatives that already been taken and others that we plan to implement for 2016 and beyond.

In the fourth quarter 2015, we restructured our Wireless organization to improve our ability to address the changing needs of our customers faster and more efficiently. Additionally, we continue to look at opportunities across all lines of business. You are starting to see these benefits in the first quarter.

Overall, consolidated headcount since the end of 2015 is down approximately 3% as we continue to increase the efficiency of our operations. We expect to receive additional savings from a number of initiatives during the second half of 2016.

We continue to streamline business support functions, utilizing our Lean Six Sigma approach across the business to reduce redundancy, drive consistency, and improve speed of delivery in the market. Across Wireless we have identified opportunities to gain further efficiencies within the store operations, call-center operations, and supply chain processes by simplifying our execution model while improving the overall customer experience.

Network-related opportunities exist for consolidation and elimination of unnecessary facilities to gain synergies and reduce costs. Always more work to be done here, but we are pleased with the continued progress.

Our networks and operating model also enable us to grow and expand our revenue streams through new ecosystems, platforms, content, and solution layers. We are enhancing our overall long-term global digital media strategy, which includes premium content, distribution, and advertising platforms across all screens.

The video platform continues to expand as we add more unique content that appeals to Millennial audiences, such as the partnership recently announced with Hearst. Our joint venture with Hearst includes developing two initial channels of video programming targeting the digital Millennial audience to be distributed across multiple distribution platforms. Additionally, we signed an agreement to acquire an equity stake in AwesomenessTV and entered into an agreement to create new premium content service featuring short-form mobile content that will launch initially on go90.

Just over the last few days we announced the acquisition of a 50% ownership in Complex Media with Hearst. The investments in AwesomenessTV and Complex Media position us as partial owners in the number one digital media brands for young Millennials.

On the go90 application, we remain encouraged by the viewership of go90, but as we have said before, we are still in the very early stages of gaining traction and engagement. Verizon Wireless subscribers now have greater flexibility when streaming live sports, concerts, and original series content within go90 on their mobile devices and can enjoy this content free of data charges with our FreeBee data service. We look forward to expanding our go90 content to other media through our AOL brands and the web later this year.

Within the Internet of Things ecosystem, we continue to develop platforms and our network to take advantage of the opportunities to innovate and offer solutions that address some of the more pressing social, economic, and business challenges. We have launched our own utility, transportation, and healthcare solutions with products like Networkfleet, Grid Wide, Verizon Share, hum, and one of our newest products, Intelligent Track and Trace.

Our ThingSpace platform is set to accelerate the adoption of Internet of Things products and solutions by making it easier, faster, and more accessible to develop applications. New revenue streams from the Internet of Things are going with revenues of approximately $195 million in the quarter, a year-over-year increase of about 25%. While we build for the future, fundamental execution and quality financial results are a top priority.

Now let's get into the first-quarter performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on slide 5.

Our first-quarter results demonstrate our ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy in the current market. We delivered strong operating and financial results by growing our quality customer base, expanding earnings, and generating solid free cash flow for the quarter.

Earnings per share grew 3.9% and free cash flow was $4 billion, which enables us to invest and return value to our shareholders. Total operating revenue in the first quarter was $32.2 billion, an increase of 0.6%. AOL had its best first-quarter revenues in the last five years, driven by growth in the platform layer.

If we exclude AOL, which was not part of Verizon a year ago, our top-line revenue declined by 1.5% for the quarter. This was due to lower Wireless phone activations on the device installment sales, lower upgrades, and the continued migration of our customer base to unsubsidized pricing.

In Wireline, the higher growth of internet-only activations and smaller video bundles also pressured revenue growth. As we manage through the revenue transformation in the Wireless and Wireline segments and develop new products and services, we remain focused on improving our overall cost structure to maintain our strong earnings profile.

Consistent with the prior year, consolidated EBITDA totaled about $12 billion and our EBITDA margin was 37.2% in the quarter, which was driven by our ability to manage cost and expand margin, even with the pressure on the top line.

Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 6.

Cash flows from operation totaled $7.4 billion in the first quarter, a decrease of $2.8 billion from the prior year, primarily due to the cash received from the tower transaction of $2.4 billion in the first quarter of 2015 that was allocated to cash flow from operations. We continued to sell device installment receivables and received about $2 billion in gross cash proceeds from new transactions in the first quarter. We believe that the underlying quality of our device installment receivables has been instrumental in helping this securitization program be so successful. Free cash flow for the quarter totaled $4 billion.

We continue to execute a disciplined capital allocation model with the priority to invest for the future. Capital expenditures were $3.4 billion in the first quarter, which included approximately $150 million related to the markets that were sold to Frontier. Wireless capital spending totaled $2.2 billion in the quarter, down about 9.5% from a year ago, which was the result of the timing of investments. We fully anticipate capital spending for the year to be within our guided range of $17.2 billion to $17.7 billion.

Our balance sheet is strong and gives us the financial flexibility to grow the business. We ended the quarter with $109.9 billion of total debt, net debt of $104 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.2 times.

We completed the sale of properties to Frontier on April 1, 2016. The pretax proceeds from the sale were used to repay outstanding debt in the current quarter. In early April we already executed tender offers and early redemptions to repay over $10 billion in debt to reduce our total debt balance.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 7.

In Wireless, we posted a balanced quarter of quality connections growth and margin expansion. Postpaid net adds totaled $640,000 in a seasonally low volume quarter, excluding all wholesale connections including IoT. Net phone additions were negative 8,000 for the quarter as compared to a negative 138,000 a year ago, a significant improvement over the prior year, driven by customer retention.

Retail postpaid churn was 0.96%, down 7 basis points for the quarter and sequentially consistent. We have taken many actions to improve and simplify our customer experience and provide the best network, which have resulted in improved customer loyalty and satisfaction. We ended the quarter with 112.6 million total retail connections, excluding all wholesale connections.

Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.4% to 107.2 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.4 million. Postpaid gross additions were 3.7 million, consistent with the prior year. The majority of gross adds were 4G smartphones and tablets.

The composition of our 640,000 postpaid net adds was very strong. Within the postpaid net adds we added 452,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were partially offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones, resulting in 284,000 net new smartphones. The remainder of the offset in phone net adds were basic devices.

Tablet net adds totaled 507,000. Other connected devices of 176,000 were added during the quarter, with Verizon Wireless retail hum devices being a large contributor. We are beginning to see traction and increasing demand for the hum product which we introduced last year. Net prepaid devices declined by 177,000.

Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 8.

Total postpaid device activations totaled 9.9 million in the quarter, down about 3.9%. Approximately 82% of these activations were phones, with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations. We ended the quarter with 73.8 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to 85% of total phones. 4G devices now comprise more than 81% of our retail postpaid connections base.

As expected, seasonality and lower customer demand for new devices contributed to the softer volumes of upgrades in the first quarter. About 5.8% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the first quarter, which represents a decline from the prior year of 70 basis points.

Now let's review Wireless profitability and revenue on slide 9.

In the Wireless segment, profitability and cash flows were driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base. In terms of profitability, we generated $10.2 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 1.7%, and had an EBITDA margin of 46.2%, an increase of 140 basis points.

Total Wireless operating revenues declined 1.5% in the quarter to $22 billion. Service revenue of $16.8 billion declined 6.2% for the quarter as a result of the continued migration to unsubsidized pricing. Equipment revenue increased to approximately $4 billion, up 17.2% for the first quarter.

Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.6% in the first quarter. We expect that service revenue growth will continue to be pressured as more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing and that equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device payment plans increases. Overall, about 48% of our postpaid phone customers are on an unsubsidized service pricing plan.

As we discussed previously, we believe service revenue will flatten its decline midyear when the base of our customers on the unsubsidized pricing plans exceeds 50%. Over the course of the next year we expect the decline in service revenue will slow, ultimately turning positive by the end of 2017.

The percentage of phone activations on installment plans increased to about 68% in the first quarter, compared with about 67% in the fourth quarter. The first-quarter take rate fell below our expectation of more than 70% due to customer preference, especially on upgrades, which contributed to lower equipment revenue growth. We expect the second-quarter take rate for device installment plans to be around 70%.

During the quarter, 5.5 million phones were activated on a device installment payment plan. We have about 28.8 million device installment phone connections in total, representing 33% of our postpaid phone base.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 10.

In the consumer business, FiOS remains the driver of revenue growth and now represents about 81% of consumer revenue. In the first quarter, consumer revenue grew 0.8%. Mass markets, which include small business, was consistent with the prior year. During the quarter, FiOS total revenue grew 5% with consumer FiOS revenue growing at 4.7%.

The increased penetration of Quantum and the desire for higher data speeds are the primary drivers of the FiOS growth. At the end of the quarter, about 78% of our consumer FiOS internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher. Additionally, the increasing number of customers opting for higher speeds is evident as about 60% of our consumer FiOS internet sales are opting for speeds at 100 megabits and above.

FiOS internet subscriber growth remained strong in the first quarter. In broadband we added 98,000 net FiOS customers for the quarter, which was consistent with the fourth quarter. Overall, net broadband subscribers decreased by 10,000 in the quarter.

In FiOS video, we added 36,000 net customers in the quarter, which improved from 20,000 net customers in the fourth quarter. The consumer revenue growth trajectory continued to decline as customers downsized their existing bundles and core voice services are no longer desired.

We introduced the next generation of our custom TV offering during the quarter, expanding the content and value provided by the original custom TV offer to appeal to an even wider range of value-conscious customers. Customers now have a choice between selecting an essentials plan and a sports and more plan, with the options to select up to three additional packs.

The demand for custom TV remains strong and, during the first quarter, custom TV represented about 38% of our FiOS video sales. Due to the low price of the bundle and the lower content costs associated with the custom TV, a custom TV customer generates less revenue, but contributes more margin than the traditional FiOS video customer.

Let's turn to slide 11 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.

The segment EBITDA margin was 23.4% for the quarter, up 70 basis points from the prior year due to strong cost control. Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment declined 1.9% in the quarter.

In the enterprise space, secular and economic challenges remain, but we are seeing stabilization in the rate of decline on a constant currency basis. In the first quarter global enterprise revenue declined 3.1%. On a constant currency basis, it was down about 2.6%. In our global wholesale business, revenues declined 4% in the first quarter. Trends for both enterprise and global wholesale remain consistent with 2015 results.

Let's move next to slide 12 for an overview of the Wireline segment post the Frontier transaction.

Now that we have completed the sale of our Florida, Texas, and California properties to Frontier on April 1, 2016, the historical results associated with these three markets will be included in Corporate and Other, beginning with the second-quarter results. For illustrative purposes, on a preliminary basis, we have shown fiscal year 2014 and 2015 and first-quarter 2015 and 2016 recast results. We will also provide nine quarters of recast financials for the Wireline segment, excluding the three markets, later in the second quarter.

Recast total revenue for the first quarter 2016, excluding these three markets, was approximately $8 billion, which is comparable to the prior year. As previously stated, we think we have tremendous opportunity to further penetrate the remaining properties from Massachusetts to Virginia with our fiber infrastructure and FiOS products. Recast Wireline margin, excluding these markets, decreased as expected, since these properties were more profitable than the properties that remained. Without these properties, the Wireline EBITDA margin for the first quarter was approximately 19%.

We have been working on our post-Frontier-transaction cost structure as part of our overall cost initiatives outlined earlier. As we have stated before, we are committed to offset the financial impact of this transaction, including the stranded cost at the consolidated level. Our efforts in this area can be seen in the fact that the recast Wireline margin expanded by approximately 200 basis points from the first quarter 2015 to first quarter 2016. We recognize that some of the efficiencies and future savings we need in order to offset the impact this year are dependent on the timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations.

Let's move next to slide 13 for an overview of our liability management.

Subsequent to the Vodafone transaction and at year-end 2014, total debt was approximately $113 billion and at the end of the first quarter 2016 our total debt was approximately $110 billion. We have been actively managing our debt portfolio entering into the second quarter of 2016.

In early April 2016 we utilized Frontier proceeds, plus cash on hand, to complete tender offers and early redemptions of $10.7 billion of face value debt with a cash outlay of $12.5 billion. Our strategy focused on retiring higher-cost debt with a range of maturities through 2043, thereby improving our maturity profile and achieving lower borrowing costs for the future. The Frontier-related tax obligations, which are payable in the second half of 2016, and our remaining debt maturity of $2.3 billion in September are both very manageable within our 2016 funding plan.

Through our liability management efforts and our future funding plans, we are on track to return to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit-rating profile by 2018/2019 timeframe. At the same time, we are continuing to execute a disciplined capital allocation model with a priority to invest for the future. Since the Vodafone transaction closed, we have maintained a strong balance sheet, invested in new businesses, improved our debt profile, and returned value to our shareholders, both through an accelerated share repurchase program and through a dividend increase each year.

Let's move next to slide 14 for our summary and 2016 priorities.

We are off to a strong start in 2016 as we executed on the fundamentals of the business: growing high value customers, delivering strong financial and operating results, and generating free cash flows. Our results demonstrate that we are well positioned to compete in a competitive environment, while effectively implementing our strategies. We remain focused on enhancing our networks and platforms to position us for future growth and on further developing new ecosystems.

At the operational level, we are navigating through the transition to the device installment payment model, stabilizing the trend in Wireline revenues, improving our overall cost structure, and ramping new revenue streams.

At this point in the year we continue to expect full-year 2016 adjusted earnings to be a level comparable to our strong full-year 2015 adjusted earnings. However, given the status of our labor contract negotiations, there will be pressure on earnings in the second quarter due to the timing of cost reductions. Depending on the progress of the negotiations, we may need to update the full-year guidance at a later time.

With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MIKE STEFANSKI: Fran, thank you. Tori, we're ready to open it up for questions, so if we can take the first question, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks and appreciate the color. I didn't catch it in the release; are you guys still reporting postpaid ARPA? And if so, could you break it out for us?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. We are going to continue to report the postpaid I-ARPA, but, Brett, we will get that out to everybody so that you can see that.

BRETT FELDMAN: Okay. Then just a separate question. You noted that you are going to be making this investment in Boston. I was hoping you could give us some thoughts around the timing of that so we could think about how that might flow through into CapEx.

And then are you thinking that there could be an opportunity to continue to expand your fiber presence, particularly as you think about densifying your wireless network? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Brett, thanks. Boston is a unique situation. We announced the intent to expand FiOS in Boston; understand that the LFA has to be negotiated with city council and that is a public process that will take approximately six months. We have been in discussions with some broad framework, but we need to go through that process.

It's also important to note that the LFA is only for video linear TV services. It is not required for broadband or 5G, so obviously when we looked at Boston it was a city that we needed to densify for the LTE network. So as we looked at all of our current COs around the footprint and the fiber that we already had there, it kind of was a no-brainer to us to say we can do the fiber build out to expand the LTE densification, but we also can use this opportunity, with only an increment of about $300 million over the next five to six years, to expand our FiOS footprint.

The $300 million you're not even going to see it in the Wireline capital numbers; it's already there. And as far as the capital that was going to be incurred on the Wireless side of the house, that was already going to be spent regardless of whether we expanded FiOS. So we will get to this, but we are starting to -- we will start this midyear this year for especially the 5G and 4G LTE densification. We will start the internet capability with passing homes, but for the video product we will have to wait to go through the LFA city council process.

BRETT FELDMAN: Is this the last significant fiber deployment you would expect to make within your remaining footprint? Or do you think that there is an opportunity to keep doing this in the Northeast?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think what we will have to do, Brett, is we will take one city at a time. Obviously we still don't have Alexandria built out or Baltimore, so if we get to a position where we believe we are going to need to invest in densification in those cities, then that's an opportunity for us to take a look at it. But at this time we are concentrating on Boston.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. Good morning, Fran. Can you just provide a little bit more clarity about your comments on Q2 and the rest of the year? Is it reasonable to take the Q1 margins, the recast margins in Wireline, that you provided as a good guidepost here until you get more cost savings coming through?

Maybe you can just reflect on any particular puts and takes from the strike in terms of extra costs from additional labor you might need to hire or conversely some cost savings. What are you seeing so far in terms of impact on the business in terms of broadband adds, trouble reports, etc.?

Then if you have any update on your data center evaluation, the sale process, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Simon. On guidance, first and foremost, we are absolutely confident at this point in time, based on everything that we have planned and the timing of the union contract, that we can deliver on the $3.99 compared to last year. Just to set the record here, again we did not give revenue guidance; we gave EBITDA margin percent guidance and we gave EPS guidance that would be relatively comparable to 2015.

So if you step back a second and look at earnings per share at 2015 coming in at $3.99, we have to keep in mind that $0.13 of that was from our assets held for sale, so really the comparable number is $3.86. As we said, we felt good about growing earnings back to that $3.99 through our normal operation results of the business.

So if you take that first quarter and move it forward for the first quarter $1.06, so that would mean we are $0.04 ahead of the prior year. That $0.04, which is somewhat attributed to the Frontier properties for the full quarter, will reverse in the second quarter. If you start out your baseline from last year's reported EPS of $1.04, $0.04 is taken right off the top for that.

And then as we talked, there is going to be some timing on offsetting the stranded costs. Again I want to reiterate that we have always said that the stranded costs would be offset on a consolidated basis, not within total Wireline segment. So we do have some timing here.

We are looking at business transformation activities. If you look at the Verizon Wireless restructure, that was part of the overall plan to contribute and offset some of the stranded costs. So you can see we're already looking at operational efficiencies on a consolidated basis.

But other things that we are looking at is around distribution centers and call centers. As you know, call centers are a very high turnover rate for employees and with our decrease in calls coming in from our Wireless customers because of more online, more chat, more self-service, we will not hire as many customer call centers and we will achieve this through our attrition rates just naturally within the call center. So there's opportunity to reduce force just through the attrition rate.

Then if you look at our equipment volumes, since the equipment logistics system in Wireless is mostly a variable cost system, as we look to the future and the upgrade volume, which we assume will be lower, there's going to be some cost efficiencies that we gain there. So as we look at this there will be some timing. Q2 will be lower than just the $0.04, but we're looking at we will regain that in the back half of the year with some of the other things we're doing.

Now finally, obviously on this, the timing of the union agreement, we had planned for that. And if it goes longer, then we would come back in mid-year. But keep in mind that we're looking at this as a long-term agreement for both providing quality jobs for our employees and returning shareholder value to our shareholders. So that's where we stand with guidance. Hopefully, that clears it up a little bit.

On the second question or the second part of your question around the strike, at this point it's too early to tell the impacts. We've deployed thousands of management employees to take on the work. We obviously always during this period of time fall a little bit behind on the install work. We still see good momentum coming in from a sales perspective, so there's a little bit of a backlog there, and we will just have to work through this.

But right now really no financial impact, per se, in the second quarter that I'm anticipating, unless this drags on for a much longer period of time.

On the data center sale, look, this is still I would consider it exploratory. There's a lot of activity going on, but nothing at this point that I'm prepared to announce in a public forum. But we continue to explore that activity.

SIMON FLANNERY: Very helpful, thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, guys, for taking the questions. I guess two, if I could.

First one, Fran, just following up on that guidance question. You highlight that if you hadn't had the Frontier benefit last year the earnings would've been more like $3.86. But if I do the math on the impact that Frontier is having on 2016, if you hadn't sold the Frontier asset the earnings would be reasonably materially higher.

And my math is that the year-over-year earnings power of Verizon, had the Frontier assets not been part of the mix here, would've been about 10%. And Street estimates are really only looking for about 3% earnings growth next year. I was wondering if you could kind of comment on what you see as the underlying earnings power of the Verizon business as we think about next year's growth, ignoring the strike issues for a second.

Then just the second question, if I could, would be on upgrade rate. I didn't see it in the notes yet for this quarter, but obviously reports are that it's been lower than normal. I was wondering if you could kind of talk about how you see the cadence or the shape of the year with the iPhone 7 likely coming out in the back part of the year and the amount of upgrades you would see by that point in time, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. On earnings, look, we've been pretty open about 2016 and of course we've got a lot of things going in a lot of different directions. Obviously, if you look at it, even with Verizon Wireless and the headwind of the revenue here and the transformation of the pricing model, we're still increasing the profitability of that business. It's really the recurring revenue that we are focused in on and the quality of our customers.

On the Wireline side of house, again you see there is pressure on top line because of custom TV and internet-only now versus triple-play. But again, we're improving the profitability of that business. So for this year we will stick with what we talked about on guidance.

Mike and I have been pretty open and Lowell has been pretty open about 2017. We believe we will get back to a normal growth rate in 2017, but I would not attribute it to anything that we divested or acquired. There's a lot of moving parts here, especially within the strategic portfolio, that's putting pressure on some of the bottom line, so I would not overindulge on the Frontier divestiture.

I mean we've got a really good value for that that we're going to put the cash to work that really benefits the earnings power of this company. And that's the way I look at it.

On the upgrade rate, look, if you look at year over year we're down over 400,000 units on an upgrade rate and obviously that had a lot of impact on the equipment revenue side. But the other thing that we are seeing is our embedded-base customers are selecting the subsidy model on an upgrade basis, which is why the overall device installment plan take rate did not meet our expectation for the quarter of 70% and fell short to 68%.

If you look at that, David, and look back to the earnings power, you would think that the stronger uptake in device installment plan would drive more margin, but in fact, we missed that metric. We did lower and we actually improved our margin overall at Wireless. So there is a lot of moving parts here.

But to your question of where do I think upgrade rates are going to go, at this point, based on what we know, we think that upgrade rates will be relatively the same as 2015. I can't talk to the fourth quarter yet, because I just don't know what the devices are going to look like in our lineup at this point in time.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. Two quick ones, if I can. One, can you comment on the FCC special access reforms? How are you thinking about that? Then two, the potential to borrow against handset receivables; what do you think is the cost in that market, Fran, versus the normal bond market?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. On the FCC special access, look, the FCC will take action this month sometime on special access rulemaking and its tariff investigation into certain discounts that we and other large legacy providers offer for DS1s and 3s.

We have reached out -- we reached a deal with a lot of the CLECs in order to resolve a long-standing and contentious regulatory issue here. Our top priority, though, is to ensure that our business services are a level playing field with all the other competitors including cable companies. We intend to work with the industry and the FCC to develop a framework for that that applies to all competitors equally and relies on the sound public policy to determine where and when regulation is appropriate.

So we will wait to see what the FCC does here, Phil, and then we will respond accordingly.

On the bond market and the recent press reports coming out of Bloomberg, look, we have been pretty open and public that we have been looking at an alternative financing arrangement for our installment sale receivables. The public asset-backed market is an alternative that we've explored. We've had a number of discussions.

We are having discussions continuing with alternative providers and various parties, but at this point in time these are just discussions. It's something we're looking at. We're still doing a lot of analysis around it and at this point it's just something that we continue to look at. Nothing to announce here today that we're going to change anything at this point in time.

PHIL CUSICK: All right, thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citigroup.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, two if I could. First, as you look at the range of possible investments that you can make over the next 12 or 24 months, is there a balance sheet debt level that investors should be keeping in mind in dollars or ratio terms, the upper threshold for what the Company is comfortable with?

Then secondly, as you look specifically at the performance of AOL since you purchased the asset, are there some examples that you could provide on ways in which Verizon has made the performance of that asset better in terms of revenue or cash flow? And how some of the recent content investments might further the performance of that asset? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. On the investment side, look, we've been pretty open that our main priority is to get our debt level back to an A- rated company and we are on track to do that. Everything we do that continues to be the top priority.

So even with all of the M&A activity you've seen, if you look back, we started this on a post-Vodafone debt of $113 billion. We've reduced that to $109 billion. But keep in mind that with a $10.4 billion spectrum purchase during that period of time.

That was with $4 billion of purchase of AOL and some miscellaneous tuck-ins, capital investment, share repurchase, and now we have just sold the Frontier properties that helps bring that debt down even to a lower level. So we are right on course. But that is top of mind at everything that we do and will continue to be a commitment that Lowell and I made that is forefront that we will commit to.

On the AOL performance, look, I think -- I'm not going to get into a lot of details on AOL, but, look, they've had the best quarter in revenue in the last five years. If you go back to the fourth quarter, we said they were up $300 million year over year. Now, of course, that's seasonal, but that shows you though that the investments that we've made in the platforms, a lot of the tuck-in type investments that we made with acquisitions -- and these are small acquisitions, but they are real critical.

If you just look at the most recent acquisition we just did with RYOT, this is a real, unique 360-degree video production. It is for really Huff Post for them to increase their viability on producing videos for news, but again, this goes to our strategy in attacking a certain population that, quite honestly, Verizon is underpenetrated in. If you look at that acquisition, it directly goes to Gen Z; 73% of their audience is Millennials. So these are real strategic for us to improve the viability of that platform.

The other thing you are going to see us do this year is around go90. The go90 product will start to cross all of the AOL platforms this year. That is going to enhance both the AOL platforms and it's also going to enhance the go90 platform.

Continuing with our strategy we will -- as I said before, we will open the box at some point in time to give you more visibility to this. And I continue to say that that will be midyear to maybe third quarter of this year where we will start to produce some numbers around some of these more specific platforms that we talk about.

MIKE ROLLINS: Fran, is there a ratio or set of numbers you could put around how you perceive getting to that A- debt level? Are there indications that you've received for that?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. If you look at each of the rating agencies, each of the rating agencies have a different approach because some of them include the pension plan unfunded liability. Others include the OPEB unfunded liability. Others don't include any of that. Securitizations, some include, some don't.

So each of them is a different metric, but if you look at our overall GAAP ratio, it kind of follows in task with what we would need to be. And based on the GAAP ratio, you should look at 2.0 to 2.1 type area in order to achieve that A- rating.

MIKE ROLLINS: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, MOFFETTNATHANSON: Good morning. Let me see if I can tie together maybe a question about the FCC and the ongoing discussions about Yahoo. Given that in the FCC right now you've got the privacy NPRM and you've got some uncertainty around whether wireless is or isn't going to be upheld under Title II, how does that inform the way you think about what you might be able to do with AOL directly I guess and also trying to expand the platform of advertising as you might do with Yahoo, if you're the acquirer?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Craig. Look, I'm not going to speak anything to deal with Yahoo, so let's just talk about what we have on the table today.

Under the sponsor data zero-rating type issue, the net neutrality already advocates some of this. We have structured our sponsored data program to comply with all the FCC net neutrality rules. For example, if any party, third-party is interested in that, we will offer that on a nondiscriminatory basis and we've priced it accordingly at a commercially favorable rate that we believe is in direct really compliance with the FCC net neutrality rule.

We think that sponsored data and other freebie data programs are good for the consumer and that regulators will recognize that after concluding their review on our products. So based on the zero data, we will have to wait and see where they come out on that.

As far as Title II goes, look, we agree with the principles with net neutrality rules. The thing that we disagreed with and opposed was applying Title II broadband services and particularly wireless broadband. So we will have to see where this comes out, but reclassing broadband under Title II was not necessary to ensure an open internet. There's been nothing ever that shows that it has not been an open internet.

This will, obviously, have some negative consequences on innovation as a whole. But, look, we are a company that has operated under regulation for 100 years and has been very successful, so we will wait and see what the FCC concludes and then we will operate accordingly. But it's too early to say what exactly is going to happen here.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Fran, does the specific limitations that might or might not be imposed on the use of customer data under the privacy NPRM that stems from reclassification, does that impact your ability to monetize an asset like Yahoo or AOL in general to -- as you think about how you would use that for advertising purposes?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, we at Verizon -- privacy and security has always been top of mind. Normally, we always use an opt-in with our customers or some type of an opt-out feature.

The issue though that we have right now is under the FCC proposed aggressive rules on privacy and data security, that would apply to broadband providers but not companies like Google and Facebook. So if we're going to have rules, we need to make sure we don't single out certain industries to either benefit or not benefit from those rules. And that's something that our legal department continues to work with the FCC on, so we will see where this ultimately comes out. But that's really the crux of the issue for us.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Fran, maybe you could comment on the competitive environment you are seeing in the Wireless. You guys were able to cut your postpaid handset losses on a year-over-year basis pretty meaningfully. Do you expect that to continue through the year?

Then secondly, prepaid has always been an area where you guys haven't really focused. You continue to lose subs in that space. Meanwhile, I think AT&T and T-Mobile are seeing a lot of growth in that area. Maybe you could compare your views on that market and why you guys don't see that as a source for growth, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, John. On the competitive environment of Verizon, look, coming into 2015 and again in 2016 we said that the top priority would be to maintain the high quality of base. And you see us doing that. We now have 48% of our base over on the new pricing and we continue to push for that.

You saw this 7 basis point decrease in churn for the last couple of quarters. What I would say though is, if you look ahead, last year's second quarter the churn was like at 0.90. I would not anticipate, nor should you anticipate, that we will achieve that churn rate again because things have kind of flattened out now. I would look at the first quarter as a guide to where we will be for the rest of the year from a churn perspective.

Part of that is because we are seeing some increased churn on tablets, which we have talked about before, where we gave a free tablet away and we saw that the customer base just didn't see the value of that tablet when it was free. They signed up for the two-year agreement because they got a tablet for $10 a month, so $240, and they disconnected it at the end of the agreement. We stopped doing that promotion for that reason, but you see some of these tablets now coming up on the two-year deal. We anticipate that some of that higher churn in that tablet environment will hit us over the next couple of quarters, so we should be prepared for that.

But as far as the smartphone churn, we are continuing to see improvement in that smartphone churn, which gets us to holding a flat churn rate overall. So I think that is really what's important to us right now is that smartphone churn rate, which is really where we are dedicating all of our concentration and our promos.

On the prepaid side, absolutely. Our retail prepaid is above market. We're really not competitive in that environment for a whole host of reasons and it's because we have to make sure that we don't migrate our high-quality postpaid base over to a prepaid product.

If you look at the competitive nature, they are doing it with sub brands. They are not really doing it with their brands. And quite honestly, we use the Tracfone brand as our prepaid product.

Tracfone has been extremely successful for us. It's not something that we disclose any more on reseller, but it continues to increase on the high-quality base of Tracfone, so that's really where we use and go after the prepaid market. More to come on this during the year, but currently that's how we operate under the prepaid model.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Fran, thanks. Maybe just a quick comment on what your view is, maybe more holistically, on the video landscape. What other assets do you think Verizon requires? I'm thinking about FiOS video long term; where does that go?

Then I guess on the service revenue stabilization, that 50% benchmark, what kind of factors have you built into that to get to that expectation?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. On the video landscape, look, I think we've set the bar on where we're going on video, both in the home and outside the home. In the home, we were the first to come out with our custom TV package which rebundled certain content, and it's been very successful. This quarter, even with the rebundle of custom TV, we had a 38% take rate on that bundle.

What I will tell you is, yes, it does give us some top-line pressure because it's a lower bundle from a revenue perspective, but the content cost is considerably lower. Therefore, it generates actually more margin for us.

It's the right thing to do. This is what customers want. They don't want to pay for 300 channels anymore and only watch 17 on average. We're trying to give customers what they want and that's a fight obviously with all the content providers, but we are doing it within the legality of our contracts. Of course, we won't breach any of our contracts, but it's the way that the environment is moving. So I don't think we're going to change any approach to our in-home delivery.

The other thing is there's confusion out there on the video side, which is everybody wants to talk about taking in-home video to a mobile handset and this is something new. This has been done for the last two years. Everybody who has an in-home subscriber, most rights give them the ability to view that content as long as they subscribe and authenticate to that subscription. They can watch that on their mobile handset.

We are taking really the strategy in a whole different mode. We're going to a mobile-first strategy outside the home. It has nothing to do with in-home content.

Now, some of the content you could watch at home could be on this, like sports. That has been very popular in the go90 environment, but we are looking at a lot of different mobile-first, short clips, news, sports, and if you think about it, original content. If you look at the strategy that we have taken in the last couple of quarters, we have added a lot of content that has nothing to do with in-home.

If you look at our Hearst joint venture, we now have joined in with them to create two very exclusive channels for us: one is called RatedRed, one is called Seriously. TV. And the target population is 12 to 24 years old.

We then -- as I said in my preambled remarks, AwesomenessTV we took a 25% ownership stake because what we saw was there was certain original content that we had contracted with them that they deployed in go90 and we saw viewership really jump when those original contents presented themselves. So this is another one where number one digital brand within the female population of ages 12 to 24; 160 million views, up 53% year over year.

And then finally, if you look at what we just did within the last few days, entering into another joint venture with Hearst and buying Complex, 50% owner. This is another number one digital brand in the male population of 18 to 24. Monthly unique viewers of 54 million and over 300 million views per month.

So this is really where we are taking the video product on mobile, which is very different than what everyone else is talking about. We believe that's where we are going to be a differentiated brand with go90 and AOL and everything else that we are doing around that video platform. So that's kind of where we're at on that.

On the service revenue stability, look, Mike, we've done a lot of modeling. We consistently say as soon as we get to a more than 50% penetration of that base on what I will call the device installment pricing plans, we start to see service revenue flatten out and we start to see accretion at the back end of 2017. We have run a number of models and we consistently see that model towards that end. So that's really where we are at at this point in time.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, Fran. Thanks for the color.

MIKE STEFANSKI: Tori, we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning, folks. I was wondering if we could discuss your network plans, Fran.

In the near term, as you mentioned, your CapEx was down high single digits during the quarter, but you remained fully committed towards your guidance levels. What initiatives are top of mind for what seems to be an implied improving spending trajectory through the year?

And I guess longer term I was wondering if you could briefly discuss some of your initiatives on 5G. You folks clearly seem to be pushing a timeline that is well ahead of your domestic peers and most of the global players as well.

What is the impetus for this focus and where would be the time when you expect? What type of assets do you think you need to ensure to be able to get to meet those expectations? Should we expect additional deals like XO or some organic investments in fiber, anything along those lines? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Amir. First, on just the CapEx; look, there's some timing here and the reason that is because, if you look at it, in the fourth quarter of last year we really accelerated our spend really in Wireless to prepare for the Super Bowl. And that was a whole densification project on the West Coast around San Francisco and Santa Clara. So really what you are seeing here is a timing issue.

We are right on track with our plans on densification. We are still deploying a lot of small cells, so there is nothing that I'm going to say here that should concern you about our plans. You will see us catch up on that spend in the second and through the third and the fourth quarter, so coming in right on guidance.

Now the only thing I will say here is keep in mind that the first quarter also had $150 million on Frontier that will disappear in the second quarter. So you could assume that second quarter may be a little lighter than in the past, but again right on track with where we thought we would be.

On the 5G question, look, we are committed to being the first US company to rollout 5G wireless technology. We are currently what I would call doing sandbox; sandbox as in creating innovation centers. We are working with the 5G Technology Forum, which includes all the major OEMs and handset OEMs.

We will evolve this 5G ecosystem rapidly, just like we did with LTE, to ensure an aggressive pace of innovation. Currently, we're testing 5G technologies this year and we aim to have an initial fixed wireless pilot starting in 2017. I want to reiterate that: this is a fixed wireless, which is really one of the first cases that we see. It's really not about mobile. It's really around fixed wireless.

We're helping the industry to adopt the rules on 5G deployment, including the opening of the spectrum bands above the 24 gigahertz. And we are working with the FCC. As you know, with XO we have the ability for an option to buy around the 28 gigahertz, which is currently how we're doing our testing right now.

Then keep in mind that 5G is not a replacement technology of 4G, so this is not a capital-intensive overlay to the 4G network. It really is all about high-speed video delivery over a wireless network in a very, very efficient way. You should think about 5G, again like we did with LTE, where you see those 4 to 5 incremental cost decreases when delivering that video. That's similar to what we will see in the 5G environment.

So right now that's where we're at, but we continue to plow forward and we will be ready to go with the 5G technology.

MIKE STEFANSKI: Thank you. We will now turn the call back to Fran for some closing comments.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Look, the first quarter provided strong results to the start of this year. Again, I want to reiterate: we are very confident in our ability to execute on the fundamentals and grow this business profitably amidst the competitive environment and manage through the transition of our business models.

We are also positioning our business for future profitable growth through cost and capital efficiency initiatives and all the new revenue streams that we always talk about. We look forward to a positive 2016 with confidence in our ability to execute our strategy, create value for our customers, our employees, and our shareholders.

Thank you again for joining Verizon this morning. Have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | boston : Boston | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usma : Massachusetts | usnew : New England
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160422ec4l002s3
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,296 words
   PD
21 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Carlos. Good morning and welcome to our fourth-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on the investor relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in the Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted on our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran goes through our results I would like to highlight a few items. For the fourth quarter of 2015 we reported earnings of $1.32 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results include a few nonoperational items that I would like to highlight.

Our year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities included a pretax $3.2 billion credit, which decreased our pension and OPEB liability. This adjustment, which was primarily non-cash, was caused by an increase in the discount rate, the adoption of new mortality assumption tables, and the execution of a new prescription drug contract during 2015. We also incurred pretax expenses of $613 million, primarily related to severance costs under our existing separation plans.

On an after-tax basis, these two items amounted to a net $1.6 billion or $0.40 per share. Additionally, we recognized a pretax gain of $254 million on a spectrum license transaction. On an after-tax basis, this gain amounted to $158 million or $0.04 per share.

Excluding the effect of these nonoperational items, adjusted earnings per share was $0.89 in the fourth quarter compared with $0.71 a year ago, or a growth of 25.4%. For the full-year adjusted earnings per share was $3.99 compared with $3.35 in 2014, an increase of 19.1%.

On a non-GAAP illustrative basis, if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for all of 2014, the adjusted earnings-per-share growth rate was 16.7% year over year.

As a reminder, included in our Wireline results are the operations from the three states that we agreed to sell to Frontier, which we expect to close at the end of the first quarter of 2016. We recognized a benefit of $0.13 per share for the full year due to these assets being classified as held for sale. Additionally, the operations of AOL have been included in our consolidated results since third quarter of 2015. Prior period results do not include AOL.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and Happy New Year.

Entering 2016, we are confident in our three-tier strategy of leading at the network connectivity level in the markets we serve, developing new business models through global platforms in video and Internet of Things, and creating certain opportunities and applications and content for incremental monetization. Our execution model enables us to compete effectively in every market condition and build our capabilities for future growth and profitability as an innovator in the digital-first mobile world in 2016 and beyond.

As we reflect back on 2015, we demonstrated a balanced performance in a dynamic competitive environment. We delivered quality growth and strong financial performance in our operating segments, while improving our strategic position and returning value to our shareholders. Overall, our full-year adjusted earnings per share grew 19.1% and free cash flow increased to $18.8 billion excluding tower proceeds, which enabled us to invest and return value to our shareholders.

Fundamental execution on our strategies is the priority within our segments. In Wireless, we posted another quarter of quality connections growth and profitability, with sequential improvements in postpaid gross and net adds as well as net phone additions. Postpaid net adds totaled 1.5 million for the quarter and 4.5 million for the year, excluding wholesale and Internet of Things connections.

Net phone additions were 449,000 for the quarter and 1.1 million for the year. Customer retention was also a highlight, with postpaid churn of 0.96%, down 18 basis points for the quarter. For the year, churn was also 0.96%, which improved 8 basis points from prior year. Total Wireless revenue grew 4.6% for the year and our EBITDA margin expanded.

Our Wireline quarterly results were highlighted by Fios revenue and customer growth. Additional enterprise and wholesale revenues slightly improved sequentially while we reduced costs. Overall, our full-year Wireline segment EBITDA margin of 23.5% was up 30 basis points.

We remain committed to consistently investing in our networks for the future. Our 2015 investments have positioned us for growth and allow us to maintain our network leadership position, as consistently acknowledged by third parties.

Wireless densification enables us to add capacity to manage the growing trends of video consumption and the demand required for the Internet of Things, as well as prepositioning us for the future 5G technology. We invested in AWS-3 spectrum during the year, acquiring spectrum covering 480 markets for a total value of $10.4 billion.

We continued to execute a disciplined capital allocation model with the priority to invest for the future. We are committed to returning value to shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet.

During 2015, we announced the divestiture of certain Wireline properties to Frontier and intend to use the proceeds to pay down debt. We monetized the majority of our remaining cell towers and we were able to return value to shareholders in the form of an accelerated share repurchase of $5 billion. We have returned more than $13.5 billion to shareholders during the year including dividends.

As we disclosed in September, our Board of Directors approved a 2.7% dividend increase, which raises our annualized dividend to $2.26 per share. This was the ninth consecutive year that our Board approved a dividend increase, affirming their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows. We remain committed to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit-rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.

So, overall, a strong, balanced 2015 which provides operating momentum and lays the foundation for the future. Now let's get into fourth-quarter and full-year performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 5.

Total operating revenue in the fourth quarter was $34.3 billion, an increase of 3.2%, including revenues from AOL. We are pleased with AOL's performance in the fourth quarter, which does have some seasonality from advertisers.

For the full year, we added $4.5 billion to our top line, representing growth of 3.6%. Excluding AOL, which was not part of Verizon a year ago, our top-line growth was 0.5% for the fourth quarter. Excluding both AOL and prior-period revenues from the public sector business we sold in 2014, the comparable full-year revenue growth rate was 2.6%. This was below our revenue guidance due to lower wireless phone activations, primarily upgrades, and a less-than-projected take rate on our device installment payment program in the fourth quarter.

Historically, our consolidated revenues have been primarily driven by growth in both customers and consumption in wireless and Fios. The change in the Wireless commercial model from an equipment subsidy model to a device installment payment model increases the revenue sensitivity to Wireless equipment volumes. We continue to manage through the transition to the device installment model.

We remain committed to our Verizon Lean Six Sigma processes on improving the customer experience while increasing our overall operating and capital efficiencies. The focus on increasing efficiencies has enabled us to sustain a strong earnings profile as we manage through the revenue transformation in the Wireless and Wireline segments.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled $46.6 billion in 2015, an increase of 7.7%, and our adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year was 35.4%, which expanded 130 basis points from 2014. Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 6.

In 2015, cash flows from operations totaled $38.9 billion. This total included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to the tower monetization transaction, which is nonrecurring. Free cash flow for the year, excluding the tower proceeds, totaled $18.8 billion.

We have been successful in selling selected device installment receivables in the private securitization market to finance the device payment program and manage working capital. In the fourth quarter we continued to sell device installment receivables and received about $2.7 billion in cash proceeds. For the full year 2015, we sold a total of $9.4 billion of device installment receivables, resulting in total net cash proceeds of $5.9 billion at year-end.

We expect to continue to sell these receivables in 2016. Given the success of the device payment program, high credit quality of our customer base, and retention history, we are exploring further diversification of funding sources.

Our capital spending was consistent with our guidance of around $17.5 billion to $18 billion for the year. In total, capital expenditures were $5.2 billion in the fourth quarter and $17.8 billion for the full year, up 3.4% from 2014.

Our balance sheet is strong and enables the financial flexibility to grow the business. We ended the year with $110.2 billion of gross debt, net debt of $105.7 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.3 times.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 7.

In the Wireless business, revenue growth, profitability, and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base. Total Wireless operating revenues grew 1.2% in the quarter to $23.7 billion. For the full year, operating revenues totaled $91.7 billion, representing growth of 4.6%.

Service revenue of $17.2 billion declined 5.6% for the quarter and declined 3.1% for the full year. Equipment revenue increased to $5.4 billion, up 28% for the fourth quarter, and grew 54.4% for the full year. Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.4% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the full year.

We expect that service revenue growth will continue to be pressured as more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing and that equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device payment plans increases. The percentage of phone activations on installment plans increased to 67% in the fourth quarter, compared with about 58% in the third quarter and about 25% in the fourth quarter of last year.

The fourth-quarter take rate accelerated but was below our expectation of 70%, which contributed to equipment revenue growth that was lower than expected. We expect the first-quarter take rate for device installment to be above 70%.

During the quarter 7.6 million phones were activated on device installment payment plans. We have about 25 million device installment phone connections in total, representing approximately 29% of our postpaid phone base. Overall, more than 40% of our postpaid phone customers are on an unsubsidized service pricing.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 18.9%, and approximately $39 billion for the full year, an increase of 10.6%. Our EBITDA service margin increased to 52.9%, up from 42% for the fourth quarter. The more meaningful measurement is EBITDA as a percentage of total Wireless revenue, which expanded to 38.4%, up from 32.6% in the prior year. For the full year the EBITDA service margin increased to 55.3%, up from 48.5%, and our EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue was 42.5%, up from 40.2% in 2014.

Now let's turn to slide 8 and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth.

We ended the year with 112.1 million total retail connections, excluding wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.4% to 106.5 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.6 million. Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 4.6 million for the fourth quarter and to 16.4 million for the full year.

Our disciplined focus on customer retention resulted in improved postpaid churn of 0.96% in the quarter compared with 1.14% a year ago, an improvement of 18 basis points. We are very focused on improving the customer experience starting with the network, simplified pricing, and better execution in our distribution channels. We are seeing lower customer service call-in rates, which is an indication of improved customer satisfaction.

Our retail postpaid net additions of 1.5 million were high quality, with a sequential improvement in the number of 4G smartphone and total phone net adds. We added 906,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were partially offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones, resulting in 713,000 net new smartphones.

Total postpaid phone net adds totaled 449,000, which included a net decline of basic phones. Tablet net adds totaled 960,000. Net prepaid devices declined by 157,000. Full-year net adds of 4.5 million included 3.3 million 4G smartphones and 3.5 million 4G tablets. The offset to these additions were net declines in basic phones, 3G smartphones, and non-tablet Internet devices.

Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 9.

Total postpaid device activations totaled 13.4 million in the quarter and 46.6 million for the full year. Similar to prior quarters, about 84% of these activations were phones, with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations. We ended the year with 73 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to 84% of total phones. 4G devices now comprise more than 79% of our retail postpaid connections base.

Growth in 4G device adoption is driving increased data and video usage. Approximately 90% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has increased by approximately 60% over the prior year. About 8.4% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the fourth quarter, which is up sequentially but down from just under 10% in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Wireless capital spending totaled $3.3 billion in the quarter and $11.7 billion for the full year, up 11.5% from a year ago. We continue to invest in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry's highest reliability and position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of new technologies. We are expanding capacity through a number of optimization techniques, effectively managing our spectrum and further successfully densifying urban markets.

National studies recognize Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader, leading in categories of overall performance, network reliability, network speed, data performance, and call performance. These are the performance metrics that matter to the customer.

Improving the cost structure of our Wireless segment is a priority. In the fourth quarter, we restructured our wireless organization to improve our ability to address the changing needs of our customers faster and more efficiently. We will continue work on our operating model on an ongoing basis and are confident that we can improve efficiencies, as we have done in the past.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 10.

In the consumer business, Fios remains the driver of revenue growth and now represents 80.4% of consumer revenue. In the fourth quarter consumer revenue grew 2.6% and for the full year grew 3.5%. Mass markets' revenue grew 1.5% in the fourth quarter and 2.4% for the full year. Small business, which is included in mass markets, experienced declines of 5.6% in the quarter and 4.6% for the full year.

The change in the consumer revenue growth trajectory continues as customers right-size their existing bundles and core voice services decline. The demand for Fios broadband only is also increasing, while we are continuing to see a decline in linear video demand. Customers value having a choice in selecting linear video packages.

We had another quarter with Custom TV representing about one-third of our Fios video sales. In the fourth quarter, Fios total revenue grew 6.8%, with consumer Fios revenue growing at 6.6%. This growth was driven primarily by broadband subscriber growth and increased penetration of Quantum.

The increasing importance of the Internet is evident as customers are requesting higher data speeds. At the end of the quarter, more than 70% of our consumer Fios Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher and we have shifted our introductory offers to 50 megabits. We are also seeing an increasing number of customers opting for higher speeds.

As I highlighted earlier, Fios Internet subscriber growth remained strong in the fourth quarter. In broadband, we added 99,000 net Fios customers for the quarter and 418,000 for the year and now have a total of 7 million Fios Internet subscribers, representing 41.8% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers increased by 5,000 in the quarter.

In linear video we are seeing slowing of market demand. We added 20,000 net customers in the quarter and 178,000 for the year and now have a total of 5.8 million Fios video subscribers, which represents 35.3% penetration. We are working closely with Frontier on the sale of our Wireline properties in Florida, Texas, and California and expect to close the transaction at the end of the first quarter of 2016.

Let's turn to slide 11 and cover enterprise and wholesale, as well as the Wireline segment in total.

In the enterprise space, secular and economic challenges remain, but we are seeing stabilization on a constant currency basis. In the fourth quarter, global enterprise revenue declined 3.3% and on a constant currency basis was down about 2.1%. For the full year, global enterprise revenue declined 5.2% and on a constant currency basis was down about 3.5%.

In our global wholesale business, revenues declined 0.2% in the fourth quarter and 3.4% for the full year. While this quarter improved due to seasonal impacts, we remain cautious on the wholesale business and believe that a 4% to 5% decline is more indicative of the underlying trend for the full year 2016.

Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment improved to a decline of 0.9% in the quarter and down 1.8% for the full year. The segment EBITDA margin was 24.2% for the quarter and 23.5% for the year, up 30 basis points for the quarter and the year.

As we have consistently stated, we are very focused on margins and improving the profitability of the Wireline segment. We are committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction. We have achieved savings from restructuring our network and service provisioning and are seeing improvements in productivity.

We continue to reengineer our work processes to improve efficiency and reduce costs, with some of the future savings depending on timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations. As we close on the Frontier sale, we are confident that we will offset the stranded cost at a consolidated level and will report more details post transaction.

Capital spending in Wireline was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter and totaled $5 billion for the year, down 12.2%, which is consistent with our strategy to reduce our capital spending in the Wireline segment. Let's move next to slide 12 for an overview of our three-tier strategy.

During 2015 we delivered strong results and further demonstrated our ability to compete effectively in a dynamic competitive environment as we worked through the transition of our Wireless base from a subsidized equipment model to a device installment payment model and ramped up new business models to generate incremental revenue growth into the future. Total revenue grew at 2.6% on a comparable basis and we delivered adjusted EBITDA margin of 35.4% for the year.

For 2015, adjusted earnings per share of $3.99 continued to grow at double-digit rates, even if you exclude the depreciation and amortization benefits we realized from the Frontier transaction. Cash flows from operations increased about 19.1% for the year, excluding tower proceeds, and free cash flow totaled $18.8 billion. We delivered more than $13.5 billion of value to our shareholders in the form of an accelerated share repurchase and dividends.

As I discussed in my opening, entering 2016 we are confident in our three-tier strategy. We are executing and delivering strong results today throughout our operating model by growing and serving our customers, while driving cost and capital efficiencies.

We are focused on building on our network strength and laying the foundation for global platforms and applications and content that appeal to all market demographics, especially the Millennials. We refreshed our brand image around the Better Matters campaign to increase awareness of our differentiated strategy around the overall customer experience and to appeal to growing markets.

At the network connectivity layer, we are investing in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry's highest reliability and position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of its new features. We are expanding capacity through a number of optimization techniques, effectively managing our spectrum and further successfully densifying urban markets.

We opportunistically purchased spectrum during the year to enhance our capacity and position us for the future. As we have done throughout our history, we evaluate spectrum opportunities in a disciplined manner, including the upcoming auction, secondary markets, and future spectrum bands that can be made available.

Leadership in 5G technology is another strategy to extend our premier network position. We are working with key partners to ensure the aggressive pace of innovation, standards development, and appropriate requirements for next generation of this wireless technology. We will begin pilots in several locations throughout the year.

Our networks enable us to grow our business through new ecosystems in video and the Internet of Things at the connectivity, platform, and solution layers. We are targeting the Millennial opportunity in Wireless video beyond connectivity. The acquisition of AOL and Millennial Media during the year added strong capabilities with global ad tech platforms and content to complement our digital formatting and content distribution assets.

AOL is scaling its consumer and advertiser base globally and it is positioned very well to take advantage of the strong secular growth trends in mobile and video as we saw in the fourth quarter. We will look to further enhance our media asset capabilities. AOL's global capabilities and partnerships are instrumental to our overall long-term global digital media strategy, which includes premium content, distribution, and advertising platforms across all screens.

We believe there is a significant opportunity in using the programmatic platform with the data from the Wireless customer base to connect consumers and advertisers in a very targeted and scaled way with relevant and engaging ad experiences, while protecting individual privacy. The go90 application that we launched in 2015 is one element of this broader video strategy that will allow us to capture and aggregate audience, deliver mobile-first content, and generate incremental revenue via advertising. As the application, which uses our video platform, evolves and gains attention, you can expect new and exciting content, features, and functionality like the NBA content we added this past quarter.

We are encouraged by the use of go90, not only on the Verizon network, but off of the Verizon network as well. During 2016 we expect to share more results around both the go90 application and our video platform.

Earlier this week we launched FreeBee Data, a new sponsored data service. With FreeBee Data, Verizon Wireless subscribers can enjoy content on their mobile devices free of data charges and it helps businesses drive engagement and revenue by providing a powerful platform for sponsoring mobile content.

As we have been discussing over the past two quarters, we are offering Custom TV for linear customers to provide more video choice. We will continue to look to refresh our Fios TV offerings to take advantage of the secular trend of video bundles with options and more choices to address the increasing over-the-top video trend.

We are taking a leadership position in the Internet of Things. With our experience in networks, devices, platforms, and applications, we have created an ecosystem that will foster innovation and scale globally above the connectivity layer to enable incremental growth. Our network leadership positions us to capitalize on these new opportunities that require both a ubiquitous mobile experience and the capabilities of platforms above the connectivity layer.

We are focused on the telematics and transportation vertical and launched our direct-to-consumer product, hum, in the third quarter. We also announced our connected city strategy beginning with Savannah and introduced a suite of developer tools, ThingSpace, to accelerate innovative applications to come to market.

At the recent Consumer Electronics Show, the pipeline for mobile Internet of Things capabilities was very prominent. New revenue streams from the Internet of Things are growing, with revenues of approximately $200 million in the quarter and about $690 million for the full year, a year-over-year increase of 18%.

Let's move next to slide 13 for our 2016 priorities.

Our strategy and priorities remain consistent for 2016. We will concentrate on growing our quality customer base in both Wireless and Fios and build upon customer loyalty by providing the best overall customer experience. We remain focused on network leadership and developing new ecosystems in video and the Internet of Things by leveraging our ubiquitous network in the United States and scaling our platforms globally.

We are also committed to returning value to our shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet in addition to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit-rating profile by the 2018-2019 timeframe. As previously stated, Verizon expects full-year 2016 adjusted earnings to plateau at a level comparable to our strong full-year 2015 adjusted earnings, due to device installment payment model transition, completion of the Frontier transaction, and the ramping of new business models in video and Internet of Things.

Additionally, we are targeting the following for 2016: a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin consistent with our full-year 2015 performance; consolidated capital spending between $17.2 billion and $17.7 billion, this includes capital spending of approximately $150 million for the properties sold to Frontier; and a minimum pension funding requirement of approximately $550 million. In terms of income taxes, we expect our effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes to be in the range of 35% to 36%.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Fran, thank you. We also recognize that there might have been some delay in posting our materials to our website. The issue I think is resolved, so we appreciate your patience.

Carlos, if you can open us up now for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Thanks for taking the questions. Fran, just as a housekeeping item, with respect to the notion of a quote-unquote plateau, could you kind of band that for people? Are you trying to put a plus or minus 1% or 2% around the $3.99? Are you trying to say $3.99 or better for 2016? Just so the street can get a sense as to where the real midpoint there is?

Then, second, obviously we had an extension in bonus tax depreciation last year. It has been something you have been benefiting from. Could you kind of scope the size of the benefit you're going to get this year?

If I could, just one last one. You've talked about how cord-shaving has been important for the new customers coming into the Fios base. Could you talk about, if at all, you are seeing some kind of transition in the existing base to these skinnier bundles? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. On earnings per share, we started this back I think midyear in 2015 when Lowell and I started to talk about the plateau level comparable to 2015 adjusted earnings. The way to think about this is we ended 2015 at $3.99. There's $0.13 of depreciation benefit because of the Frontier assets being held for sale, so that really is a level set of $3.86.

When we talk about plateauing, we are referring to the $3.99. So when you think about this, you are going from $3.86 from a jump-off point to $3.99. The way I think about it is we are actually growing earnings in low single digits from 2015 to 2016 when you make that one-time adjustment. So we will grow through the benefit of the depreciation this year.

Some of the reasons for that, as I said on the last quarterly call, some of this is just math moving the Wireless transformation from the subsidy model to the device payment model. And, of course, the ramping of our new businesses, which I have been very clear, in the beginning these are like start-up businesses. And as with most startup businesses, you have very large losses in the beginning until you can grow the customer bases and start to generate the profitability.

Moving into the bonus depreciation, yes, we will get a substantial benefit next year, but I want to be clear that you should not anticipate that our tax -- cash tax payments will decrease in 2016. They will actually increase even with this benefit and the piece of that is because the profitability from a pretax income perspective will continue to increase. And we're also still eating through the reversal of prior-year bonus depreciations.

So from a cash tax perspective, you should expect our cash tax percentage to continue to increase closer to our effective tax rate. Now, not to the extent of the 35% to 36% guidance that I gave you, but it certainly will move from the low 20%s we realized in 2015 to the upper 20%s in 2016.

On the cord-shaving piece, as we said in our prepared remarks, we are starting to see more and more customers coming into Fios on a broadband-only basis, so just a single-play strictly with broadband. As far as our current base goes, we see a little bit of trending but not much. Most customers are depleting the voice side of the product and keeping the broadband and video side of the product at this point.

David, hopefully that answers your question. Let's move to the next one.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning, Fran. You touched briefly on the auction in your commentary. I know in the past you had made some of your interest contingent on some of the rules, which we have now. Maybe you could just think about how we should be thinking about sizing your potential participation, what you need here.

There has been a lot of stories about potential asset sales over the months, most recently about data centers. Perhaps you could just talk about your philosophy now that you've done the towers; you are doing the Frontier asset. Should we expect or are you considering doing other significant asset sales over the coming year or two? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. On the auction, let's just -- I'll keep this one short on the incentive auction because of a lot of rules around what I can and can't say at this point. But we will participate in the auction and I will leave it at that.

But thinking about spectrum overall, I think we have to think about the 600 megahertz which I've talked about previously and how that fits to our portfolio. We think ahead to 5G. As we said, we will be at the forefront and we are currently at the forefront globally talking about standards. We will be the first company to roll 5G out in the United States and we are currently preparing for those field trials.

The other thing I would say about 5G is we would hope that the FCC moves quickly to adopt the rules to facilitate 5G deployment. Think about 5G, it may not just be about mobility. It may be about other use cases; it's not just about mobility.

Then when we think about the unlicensed opportunity, if you were at the Consumer Electronics Show these past two weeks, there were multiple manufacturers who were running side-by-side comparisons of unlicensed, if you will, LTE or unlicensed spectrum utilized by an LTE carrier right next to Wi-Fi. It absolutely shows no interference, which is some of the rhetoric out there, and it actually showed that the comparability is it improves the Wi-Fi performance by having a managed unlicensed within the LTE carrier. Again, this just goes to continuing to work with the FCC and having them see through the release and usage of unlicensed for the LTE carriers.

Then, of course, we will continue to utilize the secondary market as we do quarter in and quarter out, utilizing swaps, which we just completed this past quarter. We're working on another swap that we will complete in the first quarter. And also minimal buys in the marketplace with smaller holders. So that's how we think about the whole spectrum asset perspective.

On the sale of assets, as Lowell and I have continually stated, we will always look for opportunities. The data centers is an exploratory exercise to see if the asset is more valuable inside or outside the portfolio. I view that asset similar to the way we view towers. Is there a way to monetize this asset that contributes value to our shareholders and gives us the capability to move that capital into higher-returning assets for Verizon?

There is no decision that has been made. This is exploratory and as we explore, if the numbers come out like it did on towers, then we will execute on a transaction. If it doesn't, then we won't.

At this point, again, we will always look at opportunities to monetize the portfolio to the benefit of our shareholders. Thank you, Simon.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Fran, I think the churn below 1% was obviously a bright spot for the quarter. Is that a level you think you can maintain as you look at into 2016 given the competitive environment?

Then you mentioned some continued pressure on the service revenues looking out. Can you talk a little bit about the components driving that and when you expect to see an inflection in that metric? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, John. On the churn rate, if you recall, when we sat here a year ago and we entered 2015 we said a concentration of 2015 will be to protect our customer base. And that's exactly what we executed on throughout 2015 and the execution of that will continue in 2016. The focus will be customer satisfaction and satisfying our customer base so they stay with us.

I think that's proven through our very low churn rate this fourth quarter. Even with the rhetoric from some outsiders about how they are stealing customers, the churn rate does not reflect that. And port outs are down year over year.

We are doing what we said we do around the loyalty. Customer satisfaction comes in here around our simplicity and being simple with customers so they understand what they are getting. And this goes to our loyalty base.

On the service revenue side, I guess the thing I would say on this is that again this is really to math. Math of shifting from the subsidy model with higher service revenue to a device payment model where you get a break in service revenue but you pay full price for the handset model.

As we said, we are through 40% of our customers -- we are slightly higher than 40% -- who are now on that new pricing, so you have already seen the impact of that. As I said last call, we believe the inflection point will happen at 50%, which we believe we will attain midyear.

Coming out of the fourth quarter, though, we did see a slowdown in the take rate of installment sales, but we do believe that that take rate will accelerate back up above 70% for the fourth quarter. And we're going to announce some differences here, a shortcoming that will drive some of that behavior towards that.

As you know, we continue to allow our current base customers who upgrade to select, whether they take device payment or subsidy, and what we saw in the fourth quarter was we had a higher percentage of our base stay on the subsidy model, which caused pressure on the P&L of Wireless because of the subsidy take. So having said that, John, I think as we go through the year we will be able to give you more clarity here.

But the other thing I would ask you to take a look at is the I-ARPA metric, which if you look at third quarter it went up by 0.2% and then the fourth quarter went up 0.9%. So you are already starting to see some of the underlying metrics starting to absorb some of the repricing. I will leave it at that for 2016, but I will come back to you as we break through the 50%.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. So Fran, first just following up on John's question. With the current asset mix, and not just in 2016 but beyond, is it still a business that can grow well above GDP? And how far do you think above?

Second, on Custom TV. You've said in the past that you are pushing toward your minimums on some of your contracts. How should we think about that potentially impacting Custom TV or do you think you could reopen some of those contracts to let that percent go higher?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. The answer to the question is, yes, absolutely. And I think we have to go back to -- and start at the beginning on the whole top-line growth story.

First and foremost, I think the foundation is our network, our strategy and densification, the use of fiber. Fiber is going to be critical with the densification, dark fiber.

92% of our cell sites are already fiber enabled; the other 8% are microwave which probably won't get fiber, so when you look at it almost 100% of our cell sites are fiber-enabled. And every small cell, 100% of every small cell we deployed is fiber-backed. This is in preparation of some of the future products and services that we are looking at in conjunction with both what Marni has under IoT, go90, but also for 5G.

If you look at customer satisfaction, this goes to a big component of the low churn and how we start to increase the value to the customer so that they are willing to pay us more for increased value. The quality base also goes to this.

So when you look at wireless, they grew 1.2% here in the fourth quarter. If you look at volume overall year over year, gross adds and upgrades were down by 1.9 million. So if you just do the backwards math on that, that's in excess of $1 billion of revenue that wasn't there this year that was there last year. When you look at it, the foundation of Verizon Wireless is still very strong and we believe that we can continue to grow the Verizon Wireless revenue streams.

On Wireline, Fios is still the foundation. It's now 80% of the overall Wireline revenue. When you look at what we're doing in broadband, the pervasiveness of broadband, no one can match our symmetry on the up and downloads, so that's something that we have against our competition.

We are preparing for the over-the-top model. Custom TV is one of the things that I've said, yes, it has a limited life but you're going to see us refresh Custom TV and continue to do what consumers want, which is what they -- they want choice. They don't want to have to pay for bundles that they never use. Then, of course, stability of the enterprise business also adds to this.

Then you jump into our growth engines. If you look at AOL, AOL this quarter increased $300 million in revenue sequentially from the third quarter. It goes to the strength of the advertising model under AOL, which is why we bought them. Now some of that is seasonal, but we believe that they will continue to have strong growth into 2016.

Go90, which is still in its beginning stages, and I know we've seen some external reports on the number of downloads in excess of 2 million, but the key to us is not the downloads, the key is viewership. It's around content and we will continue to add content that is favorable to all generations of population.

Obviously we have a lot of content there for Millennials, but sports and music attain to a lot more than just Millennials, so we are attacking all viewership with this product. And we will have more to say about that probably midyear.

Internet of Things, if you walked around CES, it's all about the digital mobile world and we are in the best position to capitalize on that with our Smart Cities, Telematics, with the launch of hum. We started that in the fourth quarter and we've already seen that there are certain stores in the United States that can't keep the product within Verizon Wireless. They're continually selling out of the product. And this is a recurring revenue stream.

If you think about ThingSpace this is really the adjunct to the Consumer Electronics Show where we've opened up our platform. We now have over 4,200 developers working on that platform and that's just since October 29 of last year. So, yes, it was a transition year in 2015; it will be a transition year in 2016, but I am confident that with the strategies that we are taking that we will absolutely be a GDP growth company post 2016.

Custom TV, we talked about that. We will refresh that here in the short term to be in compliance with the contractual arrangements that we need to be in compliance with.

PHIL CUSICK: Is there a hearing that needs to happen at some point this year or a trial?

FRAN SHAMMO: Relating to ESPN?

PHIL CUSICK: Yes.

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, this will go its course. They're a great partner of ours; we will continue to work with them and I'm not going to speak to the actual lawsuit.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Thanks. Fran, maybe just a quick follow-up on the I-ARPA question. How fast do you think equipment revenue starts to ramp up here? I guess just thinking about the percentage of those customers making payments versus those that are on non-subsidized plans. Is that gap --there's probably some retention built into that, but I assume that gap can close over time. Just your thoughts around that.

And then just a quick other question regarding towers. We've heard a couple of your competitors sort of downplaying future tower needs and trying to bypass some of that cost. Just trying to get a sense for what you think as far as your need for towers goes.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the I-ARPA, keep in mind only 29% of our customers currently today are on a device payment plan, so they are actually taking the installment plan and paying us full price for the equipment. But 40% of our customers who fulfilled their subsidy contract have moved over to that pricing, so they are getting the discount. So we're absorbing that.

As I've said, once you get to that 50% you should see that inflection point start to occur and you are already starting to see some of that in the I-ARPA-type metric. It's hard for me to forecast exactly what will happen here but the forecast that I have is at 50% you start to see an inflection point. And we will talk more about that as we go through the quarters.

As far as towers go, look, we continue to build macro towers but at a much lower rate than historically. Our focus is really around small cells, densified antenna systems, in-building. But keep in mind that each of those small cells, in-building, and antenna systems all get fiber back to a main macrocell. So the macrocells still have an important role in how you deliver traffic into those small cells.

As far as building and creating new towers, that is at a much slower rate, but the importance of the tower is still there.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking the question. Fran, you had noted how churn and upgrades they were all lower year over year. It seems that across the sector activity levels have been lighter than we might've thought, whether it's churn or gross adds or upgrades.

Why do you think that is? Do you think that this is a temporary factor or do you think it's the new normal? Really I guess the question is: what do you think is going to happen in 2016?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Brett. Look, 2014 was a unique year. You had a very different form factor come out from Apple, which drove a lot of traffic to that iconic device. You continue to have innovation from Samsung and LG, but we didn't have that huge change in the handset this year that we saw a year ago. So that I think affected some of the upgrade model.

But when you look at it, we still did about 1.5 million more upgrades in the fourth quarter than we did in the third quarter. So the volume of upgrades still increased; it just wasn't what it was a year ago. If you remember, I said coming into this way back in the second quarter I said I did not anticipate that the fourth quarter this year would be a similar volume to the fourth quarter of last year.

But if you go back to the previous years, I think you'll see similar lower volume years. Then you have iconic devices come out and it stimulates some usage case there. So for 2016 it's too early to tell you, but I would think that we'll see similar trends that we did in 2015.

BRETT FELDMAN: Are you seeing any evidence that as customers move to installment plans they actually keep their devices longer?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, for our base it's too early to tell because the first generation of them are just starting to mature, so until I get some real factual data on that it's hard for me to answer. My own personal opinion here is that, if you look at history, a third of your customer base upgrades every year. I don't see that changing regardless of what plan the customer is on.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citigroup.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for the opportunity. Two questions, if I could. First, Fran, if you could just talk about what Verizon was able to accomplish on cost cutting in 2015 and how investors should think about that relative size in 2016. And, second, as you look across your different business segments, are you seeing any changes in the macroeconomic backdrop or a risk of a recession? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. On the cost-cutting, look, I think the last three to four years we've talked about this and we are an extremely disciplined corporation as far as costs go. With the launch of our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program three years ago, that continues to maintain momentum.

We took out almost 30 million calls down from a year ago, so there's a lot of progress being made on self-serve. There's a lot of progress being made within our logistics system. This year alone we generated working capital benefits from how we handle our phone inventory.

You saw the Wireless restructure this year was the first restructure we had really since the inception of Verizon Wireless. As we go into 2016, you saw us take that severance charge and I would tell you most of that severance charge was related to headcount that was already completed in the fourth quarter.

So entering into 2016, we continue on the path that we were on. We will continue to look at customer satisfaction, more self-serve options that reduce the amount of calls that we have to take from customers. There's still a lot of work to be done around our cost structure.

If you look at Wireline, as we came into this year Lowell and I said we would improve the profitability of Wireline. That came from all the cost reductions that John and his team achieved. So we will continue on that path and I feel good about that.

As far as overall economics, I am not really seeing much of anything in the consumer spaces that we drive. I look at what everybody else looks at and we will have to wait to see where 2016 comes out, but I'm certainly not going to predict any negativism there.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, MOFFETTNATHANSON: Good morning, guys. Two questions, if I might. First, on go90, can you update us a little bit on what the early results are and what learnings you have had from go90? Just given your comments about the roughly flat year-over-year EPS and the impact that go90 might have on that, I think a lot of us have concluded that there is likely to be something significantly bigger coming this year with respect to marketing and content.

Can you at least give us a timeline for when we might see those kinds of developments on go90?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Craig. When I think about the whole portfolio, go90, Verizon Digital Media Services, and AOL, obviously we just launched all these products, so there's a startup. It was the first fourth quarter that we advertised these types of launches. You are going to see that continue through the four quarters of 2016, which was not there in 2015, so there will be pressure from these start-up companies.

Our learnings on go90 are very simple. We're looking at how many times individuals revisit the platform in one day and we're starting to see some positives there. People will come in multiple times during the day and that's important because that's what's viable to the advertising community.

The whole basis here is we have to ramp viewership. I will tell you internally we have surpassed what we thought we would have at this point in time. We have set higher targets for 2016 because we need to build the viewership in a much quicker fashion. I think what you are seeing here from AOL is a very strong fourth quarter. Now there is seasonality to that, but as I mentioned, I'm looking for them to grow substantially in 2016.

So I think when you put this together, I think the top line will start to reflect some of the things that we are looking for, but it will create bottom-line pressure. These will not -- especially go90, will not be a profitable product probably within a one- to two-year horizon right now. When we launched it we said two to three, but it's probably out two years before that will become a profit contributor to the enterprise; but it will certainly build on the top-line perspective. But right now we're focused on viewership, not necessarily the profitability of the product.

So I will stop there. As I said, we will come in with much more detail probably midyear and start to give you some viewership into exactly some of the results of go90 and AOL.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Fran, related to that question, if I could, on AOL, now that you've had AOL for a while there was some talk, and I think you directly spoke, to the possibility of a Yahoo or something like that. Are there other assets that now that you've had AOL for a while you think makes sense to expand that part of your business with?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I think we've been pretty open since we acquired AOL. We said that we would continue to add to that portfolio. We acquired Millennial, which we talked about. So, yes, there are things that we continue to look at for fill-ins, if you will.

The other that you brought up, it's intriguing, but there's really nothing to respond to at this point on that. So, look, we will continue to look at all of our options, as Lowell and I said. We will continue to look at opportunities externally and look at opportunities internally and if they make sense for the shareholder, then we will execute on those opportunities.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Fran, you had mentioned that you continue to look to monetize your handset receivables. I think in your prepared remarks you had mentioned that you were looking at other alternatives. Perhaps you might be able to elaborate.

We've obviously seen your competitors look to other means and funding strategies to support their businesses. So any thoughts on the potential options you were considering would be most appreciated.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thank you, Amir. Just to refresh, we monetized or securitized $9.4 billion of receivables. We received gross cash of $7.2 billion. We obviously paid off some of those securitizations, so about a $5.9 billion net cash. So when you think about that, we absorbed about $3.5 billion within our working capital this year from the switch to the device payment model.

I will tell you that we have been talking to the rating agencies about different types of financing and I will probably leave it at that at this point. But we will be looking at potential public markets as well as private markets, but we will stay with the securitization model as well. So we're just looking at very different alternatives to support the program going forward, because we do believe it will continue to grow in 2016.

And more to say on that when we come to a conclusion on that one, Amir.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Then, if I may, just one follow-up. You folks seem to be taking the lead with discussing a number of new bandwidth-enhancing technologies and you had alluded to this on your prepared remarks around 5G developments and unlicensed spectrum.

How should we think about your ability to bolster the carriers' capacity moving forward utilizing these types of developments? And ultimately, do you believe there is a path to improving your capacity without actually having to broadly expand your spectrum portfolio at this point?

FRAN SHAMMO: The answer to the question is yes. If you look at some of the small cell technology and also some of the technology that can be utilized at the cell site -- I know there's a fancy name for it, but I'm not the engineer here -- but it gives you the capability to be able to tilt antennas and turn antennas to where the capacity is.

So if you think about football game Sundays and college games, we have the capability to utilize our current resources to increase capacity without any spectrum capacity. There is a number of technologies that are coming. Obviously, when we launched 4G we said it would be 5 times more efficient than 3G. 5G is too early, but my suspicion is that we're going to see some similar benefits there from a capacity standpoint, which is one of the benefits of 5G.

So, yes, I think that if you look at spectrum, we are in a very, very good spectrum holdings, as we said with all my other comments around spectrum and how we utilize unlicensed along with what we bought in AWS and the repositioning of what we currently have on 3G over to 4G. So utilizing all of these items, we feel that we are in very, very good shape from a capacity standpoint.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for the incremental color.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you for your questions. Before we end the call I will just turn it back to Fran for a few more remarks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Look, 2015 was a year of significant change at Verizon. And even with all that change we delivered a strong financial year, continued to invest in growing our customer base, invested in our networks, developed and expanded new businesses, and returned value to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchase.

2016, we will continue what we started in 2015. We will focus on execution and growth with our three-tier strategy and heritage. We will continue to build on a strong network and customer foundation. With our foundation we will compete effectively in this dynamic marketplace.

We will bring new products and services to market and continue to be the leader in the digital-first mobile world. We look forward to maintaining our positive momentum to create value for our customers and our shareholders, and I would like to thank you for joining Verizon today. Have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160122ec1l0012x
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,989 words
   PD
20 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2015 earnings call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

   TD
MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski. I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on the Investor Relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted on the website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran goes through our results, I would like to highlight a few items. For the third quarter of 2015, we reported earnings of $0.99 per share on a GAAP basis. These reported results include a non-cash pretax charge of $342 million or $0.05 per share for a pension remeasurement adjustment due to a settlement accounting threshold that was met in the third quarter. Excluding the effect of this non-operational item, adjusted earnings per share was $1.04 for the third quarter compared with $0.89 a year ago or growth of 16.9%. There were no special items of a non-operational nature in the third quarter of 2014.

Through the first nine months, adjusted earnings totaled $3.10 per share compared with $2.65 per share last year. However, as we have consistently pointed out, last year's adjusted EPS would have been higher on a non-GAAP illustrative basis if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for the entire first quarter. On this more comparable basis, the adjusted EPS growth rate was about 14% for the first nine months of 2015.

As a reminder, our Wireline results include the operations in the three states that we agreed to sell to Frontier. These operations will be included until the transaction closes, which we expect at the end of the first quarter of 2016.

Also, as previously noted, we are no longer recording depreciation expense on these assets as they are classified as held for sale. We continue to estimate that the full-year 2015 earnings benefit of lower depreciation expense will be about $0.13 per share.

In terms of the AOL acquisition, which closed in late June, our third-quarter consolidated results include the operations of AOL, which are reported as part of corporate and other. We have not restated prior history, so periods prior to the third quarter of 2015 will not include AOL results. With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. Our third-quarter and year-to-date results demonstrate that we continue to execute on the fundamentals of our business and deliver strong financial performance while actively positioning the business for future growth and profitability. We are very committed to building the business for the future and we are doing so through investments in our existing networks, as well as the platforms that will position us to capture incremental profitable growth in new areas like mobile video and the Internet of Things.

We continue to execute a disciplined capital allocation model. In addition to our consistent investment strategy, we are also committed to returning value to shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet. We have had a very active year with capital investments and spectrum purchases, which position us for the future growth, the strategic acquisition of AOL, and the return of more than $11 billion in value to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases while remaining on track with our previously stated deleveraging plan.

In early September, our Board of Directors approved a 2.7% dividend increase, which raises our annualized dividend to $2.26 per share. This was the ninth consecutive year that our Board has approved the dividend increase, affirming their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows.

On the operational front, our focus is to provide customers with consistent network reliability and a great customer experience and we are competing very effectively in all parts of the business. We once again delivered strong earnings growth and free cash flows. In Wireless, we posted another quarter of quality connections growth and profitability with sequential improvements in postpaid growth and net adds, as well as net phone additions. Postpaid net adds totaled 1.3 million, which does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Net phone additions were 430,000.

Customer retention was also a highlight with postpaid churn of 0.93%, down 7 basis points from last year. Total Wireless revenue grew 5.4% and our EBITDA margin expanded. Our Wireline quarterly results were highlighted by fios revenue and customer growth with sequential increases in both Internet and video subscribers. Our segment EBITDA margin of 23.5% was up 50 basis points.

Now let's get into our third-quarter performance in more detail starting with our consolidated results on slide 4. Total operating revenue was $33.2 billion, an increase of 5%, which, as Mike indicated, includes revenues from AOL. Excluding AOL, which was not part of Verizon a year ago, our top-line growth was 3.1%. Our consolidated revenues have been consistently driven by customer and usage growth in both Wireless and fios.

Our overall revenue mix continues to change, driven by the unsubsidized equipment model, increasing video demand in Wireless, and a higher mix of broadband in fios. As these trends evolve over the near term, we expect future revenue growth to result from increased video and Internet of Things traffic, enabling new business models in Wireless and continued broadband demand in Wireline.

In terms of our mobile video strategy, earlier this month, we were the first to market with the commercial launch of go90, a differentiated, mobile-first, social entertainment platform. Go90 includes a broad selection of premium content and social engagement features and the capability for sharing and conversation around the content. The initial feedback has been strong with increasing engagement without significant promotion, and we have received positive industry recognition.

As go90 develops, we will be adding more great content, features, and advertising opportunities. You can expect a flow of product enhancements creating a new ecosystem for digital creators and advertisers, and a video consumption model that we can monetize in multiple ways. AOL is expected to play a key role in the success of our video strategy. The acquisition of AOL significantly improves our digital media and advertising capabilities. These capabilities will be a key component of our video business model, which will be driven by digital mobile advertising in the future. We are taking a strong leadership position in the Internet of Things. With our experience in networks, devices, platforms and applications, we are creating an ecosystem that will foster innovation and expand the entire IoT market.

Here are a few examples of our early initiatives. In August, we announced the commercial availability of hum, an aftermarket vehicle technology and subscription service creating a connected car driving experience that can operate in more than 150 million vehicles in the United States. We are very active in the smart city solutions markets and we have already announced a partnership with the city of Savannah, Georgia. Municipalities like Savannah are looking to take advantage of our intelligent solutions to integrate disparate systems, monitor traffic and safety conditions in real-time to improve efficiency and public safety. These are just a few examples of the many opportunities we are pursuing. We are very well-positioned to capitalize on these new opportunities that require both the ubiquity of mobile service and the capabilities of platforms above the connectivity layer. This will enable us to monetize usage through new commercial models, including data analytics and applications.

New revenue streams from the Internet of Things continue to emerge and grow with revenues of $175 million in the quarter and about $495 million year-to-date. As our revenue mix expands, we're focused on improving the customer experience while reducing our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies. The focus on cost structure has enabled us to sustain a strong earnings profile. Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.9 billion, up 7.5% on an adjusted basis, and our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded by 80 basis points to 35.8%.

Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 5. Cash flows from operations were $9.5 billion in the third quarter and totaled $28.4 billion year-to-date. The nine-month total included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to the tower monetization transaction, which is non-recurring. In the third quarter, we continued to securitize Wireless equipment installment receivables and received about $2 billion in cash proceeds.

Free cash flow for the first nine months, excluding the tower proceeds, totaled $13.5 billion. Capital expenditures were $4.4 billion in the quarter and $12.5 billion year-to-date. We expect capital expenditures for 2015 to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion. Our balance sheet remains strong and enables the financial flexibility to grow the business. We ended the quarter with $112.3 billion of gross debt, net debt of $108.4 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.4 times.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 6. In the Wireless business, revenue growth, profitability and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base. Total Wireless operating revenues grew 5.4% in the quarter to $23 billion. Service revenue of $17.6 billion declined 4.1% while equipment revenue increased to $4.3 billion, up 73%.

Service revenue plus installment billings increased 1.2%. Service revenue growth will continue to be pressured and equipment revenues will grow as the activation rate for device installment plans increase and more of the customer base moves to unsubsidized service pricing. In early August, we simplified our pricing structure centered on the device installment model. The pricing change simplified the customer experience at the point-of-sale and provided a cleaner structure for managing their accounts. Existing customers can still choose to sign a two-year service contract and remain on subsidized pricing when updating to a new device. Additionally, business customers do not generally select device installment plans.

Consistent with our expectations, the percentage of phone activations on installment plans grew at about 58% in the third quarter compared with 49% in the second quarter and 12% in the third quarter of last year. In the fourth quarter, we expect the percentage of phone activations on device installment plans to increase to around 70%. During the quarter, 5.6 million phones were activated on device installment plans. We have about 19 million device payment phone connections in total, representing approximately 22% of our postpaid phone base. Overall, more than 30% of our postpaid phone customers are on unsubsidized service pricing.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.9 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 9.2%. Our EBITDA service margin increased to 56.4%, up from 49.5%. As we have said before, we believe a more relevant measure of profitability is EBITDA as a percentage of total Wireless revenue, which expanded to 43.2%, up 160 basis points. On a year-to-date basis, our EBITDA margin was 43.9%, up 100 basis points from a year ago.

Now let's turn to slide 7 and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth. We ended the quarter with 110.8 million total retail connections. This total does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 4.9% to 105 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.7 million. Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 4.2 million. Our disciplined focus on customer retention resulted in improved postpaid churn of 0.93% in the quarter compared with 1% a year ago.

Each quarter this year, we have improved our year-over-year postpaid churn rate between 4 and 7 basis points. We are very focused on improving the customer experience through simplified pricing and better execution in our distribution channels. We are seeing lower customer service call-in rates, which is an indication of improved customer satisfaction. Our retail postpaid net additions of 1.3 million were high quality with the sequential improvement in the number of 4G smartphones and total phone net adds. We added 889,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter, which were partially offset by a net decline in 3G smartphones resulting in 694,000 net new smartphones. Total postpaid phone net adds totaled 430,000, which included a net decline of basic phones. Tablet net adds totaled 818,000. Net prepaid devices declined by 80,000.

Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 8. Total postpaid device activations totaled 11.6 million in the quarter, down about 1.2%. Similar to prior quarters, about 84% of these activations were phones, with tablets accounting for the majority of the other device activations. We ended the quarter with 71.5 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to more than 82% of total phones. 4G devices now comprise more than 76% of our retail postpaid connections base.

As you would expect, growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage. Approximately 89% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has increased by about 75% in the past year. About 7% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the third quarter. The quality of our overall postpaid phone base continues to improve. Through gross adds and upgrades, our 4G smartphone base has increased by roughly 34% in the past 12 months to 64.6 million. We still have a sizable 4G upgrade opportunity with roughly 15 million basic phones and nearly 7 million 3G smartphones remaining in our postpaid connections base. Tablets are also underpenetrated in our postpaid base at only 10%.

Wireless capital spending totaled $2.9 billion in the quarter and $8.5 billion year-to-date, up 8.4% from a year ago. We continue to invest in our 4G LTE network to provide the industry's best reliability and to position ourselves to capture the efficiencies and capabilities of new technologies. We are focused on improving our network capacity through a number of optimization techniques, effective management of our spectrum inventory, and further densification in urban markets.

Our densification program is progressing well and is achieving the capacity gains that we expected on the spectrum that is in service. For example, in Chicago, we are on our plan for small cell deployments, covering key locations with distributed antenna systems and expanding our in-building coverage. This has helped support approximately 75% data growth on the network while maintaining our number one ranking in network quality according to both internal and external competitive benchmark studies.

National studies continue to consistently rate Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader. We lead in what matters most to customers -- coverage and consistent reliable performance. Densification is just one aspect of our network evolution strategy. We are working on centralizing network radio control to enhance capacity and provide operational efficiencies while beginning to implement a software-defined network architecture, laying the groundwork for new innovative services and applications.

We are extending our network leadership into 5G with our announcement several weeks ago that we are leading a technology forum with key partners to ensure the aggressive pace of innovation, standard development and appropriate requirements for the next generation of wireless technology.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 9. In the consumer business, fios continues to be the driver of revenue growth and now represents 79% of consumer revenue. In the third quarter, consumer revenue grew 2.8% and mass markets, which includes small business, grew 1.8%. As we expected, there was a change in the consumer revenue growth trajectory. The primary reason for the decline is driven by lower pay-TV subscriber growth and an increase in customers rightsizing their existing bundles.

While fios broadband continues to grow, we are seeing a decline in the percentage of triple play customers. In addition, we continue to see interest in our Custom TV offering, which offers more choice and control at a lower price point. We expect the continued adoption of Custom TV will pressure revenue growth, but result in a higher contribution margin. In the third quarter, fios consumer revenue grew 7.1%, driven primarily by broadband subscriber growth and increased penetration of Quantum. Our Quantum broadband service continues to scale and, because there are no content costs, has a higher profitability contribution.

At the end of the quarter, roughly 2/3 of our consumer fios Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher. We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabit speed tier, where one-fourth of our Quantum customers currently subscribe.

As I highlighted earlier, fios subscriber growth improved sequentially in the third quarter. In broadband, we added 114,000 net fios customers and now have a total of 6.9 million fios Internet subscribers, representing 41.7% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers increased by 2000 in the quarter. In video, we added 42,000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.8 million fios video subscribers, which represents 35.6% penetration.

We are working closely with Frontier to finalize the sale of our Wireline properties in Florida, Texas and California, and to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and ensure a seamless transition. We're making good progress and have secured approvals from the DOJ, FCC and the state of Texas. We expect to close the deal at the end of the first quarter of 2016.

As we prepare to divest of these properties, we are focused on reducing our shared cost structure post-transaction. In addition, we will also take this opportunity to significantly reduce the broader cost structure of the entire Wireline business.

Let's turn to slide 10 and cover enterprise and wholesale, as well as the Wireline segment in total. In the enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the third quarter, global enterprise revenue declined 4.9% and on a constant currency basis was down about 3%. In our global wholesale business, revenues declined 5.1% in the third quarter. In both businesses, we continue to see similar trends impacting growth with secular declines in legacy transport revenue and competitive price compression in other services.

Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment were down 2.3% in the quarter. The segment EBITDA margin was 23.5%, up 50 basis points and on a year-to-date basis expanded 20 basis points to 23.2%. As we have consistently stated, we are very focused on expanding margins and improving the profitability of the Wireline segment. We are committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction. We have achieved savings from restructuring our network and service provisioning and are seeing improvements in productivity. We will continue to reengineer our work processes to improve efficiency and reduce costs, with some of the future savings depending on timing and the outcome of our current labor negotiations. Capital spending in Wireline was $1.2 billion in the third quarter and totaled $3.4 billion year-to-date, down 18.6%.

Let's move next to our summary slide. Throughout 2015, we have executed on the fundamentals of the business, growing high-value customers and delivering strong financial and operating results and generating free cash flows. We have also continued to consistently invest in our networks and platforms to position us for the future growth. Our year-to-date consolidated revenue growth was 3.3% after adjusting for the inclusion of AOL this quarter and the sale of the public sector business in 2014. On this same basis, we continue to expect revenue growth of at least 3% for the full-year 2015.

Our adjusted EBITDA was up 6.4%, with margin expansion of 80 basis points to 36.6%. Excluding the tower proceeds, cash flows from operations were up about 13% year-to-date and free cash flow totaled $13.5 billion. We have added 3 million net postpaid wireless subscribers, including total phone net adds of 613,000. Our new customer growth is high quality with 2.4 million new 4G smartphone customers and 2.5 million new 4G tablets. We have also improved the quality of our postpaid base through upgrades and effective customer retention and have approximately 10 million more 4G smartphone customers than we did at the beginning of this year.

In fios broadband, we have added 319,000 new subscribers and 158,000 in fios video. We are very focused on developing new products and services in mobile video and the Internet of Things to monetize usage on our networks and expand our revenue mix. In time, these incremental revenues will become more meaningful to our overall top-line growth. The launch of new products like go90 and hum are examples of where we can monetize usage of the network and platform layers, providing more diversity to future revenue streams. With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Brad, we're now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, Fran. I think Lowell had talked recently about earnings plateauing in 2016. Could you just give us a little bit more color about the puts and takes with the Frontier divestiture during the quarter, during the end of the first quarter, and all the cost-cutting? Then any updates on the 600 MHz auction given that the application rules came out last week? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Good morning, Simon. So on the comment about the plateau of earnings, I guess -- first off, let's start with the simple piece, which is some of it is just pure math. So when you look at this Wireless model and converting from a subsidized phone model to an installment plan model, as we've been pretty transparent with all of you, there was a GAAP accounting that falsely increased the earnings of any company who adopted this model. We have tried to be as transparent as possible giving you the baseline in the beginning, but that became more complicated.

What we have said going forward is, look, the better measurement here is not service margin EBITDA but regular EBITDA percent on total revenue because that kind of normalizes out the fact that we are now recording 100% of the revenue upfront for the sale of the equipment rather than a subsidy and then recouping that through service pricing over a period of time.

So when you take that into consideration, as you plan out the curve on the installment sale and penetration of the base, and I said in my prepared comments our base has trended -- 30% of our base is already on this new pricing. So as you go into 2016 and you get into that 50%, it starts to normalize out the earnings impact that was accelerated through the year 2015.

So I guess what I would say is if you took out the impact of that in 2015 and you look at 2014 to 2015 earnings growth, you'd probably get a more normal growth trend than what we are delivering in double-digit growth now and then if you put that normalization into 2016, we actually would have grown earnings, but because of the math exercise here, you are getting a flatness in that GAAP accounting. So that's part of it.

The next piece of it is, as we have said also, with the divestiture of the Frontier properties in the South, these are classified as properties for discontinued operations and for the year, we're anticipating that is going to be a $0.13 to $0.14 EPS lift because we can discontinue the depreciation of those properties. So again, that has to get normalized out as we go into 2016. So if you looked at it today, we are reporting $3.10 to date. We have about $0.11 of benefit, so it would be around a $2.99 versus $2.65 of last year.

The next thing is, if you look at the divestiture of those properties, as we have said, these are higher margin properties and since we are more of a centralized cost base company, we have a lot of allocations into those three properties. So as I said before when we announced the sale, we have this what we call stranded cost that we need to work out of the business since the time that we announced this.

Look, I think we have proven a great track record here in Wireline that we know how to do this. If you look at year-over-year, we are down over 8,000 resources because of all the system enhancements and process improvements that we have made through processes and frontline execution on more online billing and so forth. So we know how to do this and we've got about five more months to go, but we also have to consider the fact that we are in the middle of a labor negotiation and some of those benefits won't be realized until we come to an agreement with the labor.

So this is more of a timing issue on this one. We will realize those benefits. As you know, the last time we entered into a labor negotiation, we said that we would incur about $500 million worth of savings over the three years and you can see that coming through the EBITDA of Wireline. So I think that's important.

And then, of course, the last piece of this is, as you can see in our results this quarter, you are seeing more of a ramp in corporate for the startup businesses. So as any startup business goes, you incur losses upfront because you are investing in the product development, you are investing in the marketing and promotion of that new business and that's going to be a drag on earnings through 2016 because the revenue will not catch up with the cost. So when you take all that into consideration, that is where Lowell was mentioning and forecasting more of a flat, if you will, or plateau for 2016.

SIMON FLANNERY: And that's a GAAP (multiple speakers)?

FRAN SHAMMO: Simon, on the update of the 600 megahertz, look, as you know, the applications to participate as buyers, the FCC did some forward part of the auction, are expected to be due in January and the whole purpose of this was to give the broadcasters a sense of what the bid would be that they would receive. Now the broadcasters have that chance to look at that and decide whether they are going to participate or not.

I think one important thing here though too is that, after we saw the abuse in the AWS-3 auction by Dish, I think the FCC should learn from this and not give preferences to large corporations, award credits or set-asides, and the government shouldn't be in the business of picking winners and losers. Let the consumer do that. So we will have to see how the rules play out here, but, at this point, we do plan to participate, but we will see how the rules play out and we will go from there.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, thanks. Maybe two questions if I could. Just, first, on the, Fran, disclosure about the 22% of devices being on EIP plans, but 30% of customers being on EIP pricing, could you talk about the difference there? Is that BYOD? Is that a forward pricing strategy that you are starting to implement? It would be helpful to understand that.

And then just second on the -- as we kind of unfold the go90 strategy and think about content acquisition, now that AT&T and DTV are together, is there any thought about revisiting Verizon's historical kind of conversations with the cable industry about maybe joining forces to try to work together on content and distribution and allocation of resources? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. Good morning. Okay, so on the difference between the 22% on Edge and the 30% on pricing, obviously, if customers have fulfilled their contract over the two-year period of time under the old subsidized model, those customers are free and always have been free to select whatever price plan they want. And we are allowing them to move to the new pricing because they fulfilled their contractual obligation under the old pricing. So in essence, they are bringing their previous device into the new pricing. So that's part of it.

The other thing is is there is a little bit of forward pricing here with current customers and as we've talked before on calls, we have a pretty diligent exercise where we go through our customer base and we attack the high-value customers who we think have a higher propensity to churn from us. So there is some proactiveness there and I think you are seeing that come through on the reduction of churn through this year of 4 to 7 basis points. I would anticipate that going into the fourth quarter, you should consider us to be within that improvement on a year-over-year basis. Now given the fourth quarter is always generally a higher churn quarter, as it was last year, but we do believe that we will see a consistent improvement as we have seen through the beginning of this year.

As far as go90, look, go90 is a very, very different product set. It is a mobile-first, social entertainment platform. Let me just talk a little bit about where we are here, but this really is just a totally different perspective than linear TV and content deals. We know how to do that and we have been doing that for 10 years with fios. But this is a very, very different platform. Keep in mind we are 20 days into this. We actually haven't done any advertising or promotion activity around this product. So for early stages, we're seeing very good platform stability. We are seeing very encouraging feedback and of course, we are looking at some very specific metrics here of what's the viewership? How many times do people revisit the site? What do the new shows capture?

If you haven't downloaded, I would encourage you to because we now have over 10,000 assets in the product. We have two exclusive episodes. One is called Top Five Live and the other is called Betch and these are really starting to take form with the millennials. We're starting to see a number of encouraging revisits to the platform on a daily basis to see what Top Five Live and Betch are doing and we have 48 more exclusive content deals coming that will be on this product before the end of the quarter.

So go90 right now, we are seeing very, very good upstage, but again we really haven't started to advertise the platform. We do have entertainers tweeting the platform who are part of the platform like Kanye West on his live show. So there's a lot happening in this platform. So we're really pleased with the initial stages, but this is very, very different than the legacy linear TV model. So I will stop there, David. Thanks for the question.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGANCHASE: Thanks. Fran, can you talk about the Custom TV effort what you are seeing overall in the video landscape? It seems like the 42,000 this quarter was a little bit weaker than we would've thought given seasonality. I wonder if you're still having any advertising issues or if this is just the way we should look at it going forward. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So look, the TV environment this past quarter was extremely competitive and continues to be. Custom TV though actually within the portfolio is performing similar to what it did last quarter with the number of people choosing the product and the number of migrations that we have within the product. Of course, as we have said, this is going to put a little bit of top-line pressure on fios growth and the reason for that is -- the way you have to think about this is the new bundle is about $20 less than the average normal fios bundle. But the offset to that is we are also getting an incremental benefit in the content costs. So we're seeing an incremental margin gain by people selecting the Custom TV package.

I think what's more important, though, is that consumers are speaking to the total linear environment that says they only want to pay for what they want to watch and they don't want to pay for 300 channels when they watch only about 10% of those channels. So I think that's more important as to where the ecosystem is going. We will continue to support Custom TV. As we said, we know we have some disputes that we are working through, but Custom TV right now is doing what we thought it would do.

As far as the growth perspective, I think if you look at last quarter with the 625,000 negative adds, we continue to be positive, so we are gaining share, but, look, the environment is millennials just don't want linear TV content. They're disconnecting their cable for just Internet content and mobile content. And that goes to why we're launching go90 with a mobile-first perspective and that is attacking that entire segment that a fios brand does not attack today through a linear TV product.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks. When you reported the second quarter, you talked about Custom TV. Most people were taking only the basic sort of 55. Have you seen that evolve upward a little bit as we have seen football season and other things start in the fall?

FRAN SHAMMO: You know, Phil, no, we haven't. The basic package is the basic and then you get two packages included. Now, of course, you have a selection of those packages among seven. Some people are selecting the sports. Others are selecting the Hallmark station and those things. But generally sports fanatics generally take a premium package. So Custom TV more is for those folks who really aren't interested in sports and are taking less of the sports channels. But it's more or less the same trend; not seeing any difference there.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Back to Wireless, Fran, if we could. You had a handset upgrade rate of about 7%, which is down slightly on a year-over-year basis, but there's a much bigger comp coming up in the fourth quarter of 2014 where you did almost 10%. Do you expect a bigger, sort of year-to-year decline in the fourth quarter here? If so, what kind of impact could that have on the margins? If you could give us a sense for how you expect, given the trends you are seeing with installment plans, 2016 over 2015 would be great. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. So on the handset piece for upgrades, what I would say is we are anticipating a little less volume than last year because of the total iconic launch of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. But this quarter, we are still anticipating a fairly heavy volume quarter as every fourth quarter is, but I would anticipate a little less than what we saw last year. So I would think that upgrades would be a little less than what we ran last year.

As far as what we see from a take rate on installments going into 2016, look, at this point, we are guiding to 70% in the fourth quarter. We are now 100% at the point-of-sale with Edge only. Of course, we have an exemption for current customers who are on the subsidy model who can opt to take a new subsidized handset. So we will have to see how that works going into 2016 and that may keep us around that 70% to 75% take rate. But it's too early to tell, so I don't really want to give guidance yet on what the take rate will be. Let's see how we come out the fourth quarter. I will readjust that in the first quarter.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks. Fran, just thinking about the uptake of factoring -- I'm sorry -- of EIP and looking into next year, you've got two competitors getting very aggressive on leasing. Just a sense for your thoughts on leasing as a structure. Then, secondly, the prepaid declines, is that just sort of a defocusing on that segment or are you actually seeing some wins on the postpaid side from the prepaid base? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So on EIP, look, we've gone to the full Edge product. As I've said before, I'm not interested in a rental program. We are not seeing any impact from those programs from the competitors in our base and I think our results speak to that this quarter. I think they will speak to that in the fourth quarter as well.

I think what you will see is, if you speak to the rating agencies, they are becoming very concerned with the balance sheet risk of some of the industry on putting up rental phones on the balance sheet with what the residual value will be with those rental phones. So again, as I've said before, that is not something that we are entertaining at this point. Again, I never say never, but that is not something that I would have an appetite for.

On the prepaid decline, I think, look, generally, if you look at how postpaid and the price points of postpaid and I've talked about this before, postpaid pricing is more or less mirroring what prepaid pricing was in the past and we are seeing some migration of our prepaid product customers to postpaid, but it's more probably limited than some others because of our intense credit models. You have to pass the credit in order to become postpaid. But there is a segment of prepaid customers that are good credit customers that now that the price point is closer to affordability for them on postpaid, they are moving into the postpaid product.

I don't really look into the prepaid product decline as a problem set for us at this point. We generally really compete with prepaid in our reseller model with companies like TracFone and Straight Talk and Straight Wireless and that's where we really drive home the lower-end product without our brand connected to it. Although we don't disclose much in reseller anymore, that segment continues to perform well for us.

MIKE MCCORMACK: I guess on the residual risk, is that just you think secondary market can become softer or new devices being launched or is it just an overall view on risk on the balance sheet?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, if you look at some of the programs, you have balloon payments that are due in 18 months. 18 months from now, the market is changing. There's a lot of Apple product hitting the Chinese market now where China was one of the larger areas where we sold off used handsets. So as these markets get heavily penetrated with newer product, that could impact the residual value of these phones going forward. So it's just a risk that is going to have to be handled by the industry under that program. And at this point, that's not something we want to deal with.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Just two, if I could. First, Fran, could you talk a little bit more about what the mobile data usage looks like? You talked about the mix of data that's on 4G LTE, but kind of curious how much does a customer use? How much is the data growing year-over-year? Metrics that could help on that basis. And then, secondly, you described that the service revenue plus installment billing was 1.2% up year-over-year. As you are making the transition to these new rate plans, the unbundled installment plans, what is the risk that that goes lower before it goes higher? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Michael. Okay, so on mobile data, what we're seeing right now is a trend across our entire network of 75% growth year-over-year. Obviously, some of the metropolitan areas like a New York and Chicago are higher than that. Chicago, we said, is up 75%, but New York, San Francisco, some others are higher than that in growth rates. So it depends where you are at and then we have markets obviously lower than that because of more rural areas. So that's generally what we are seeing in the network right now.

On the installment sale billings of 1.2%, yes, I do believe that will go lower as we make this transition into 50% of our base for installment sale. So the trend of service revenue and the installment billings plus the service is going to continue to decline until we get into that middle part, latter part of 2016, where the curve will reverse, and then you'll start to that flatten out and start trending back up just like the math would dictate.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Could that go negative? Could there actually be a rate of decline during this transition?

FRAN SHAMMO: No, I think what you're seeing now, if you look at the previous quarters, it's pretty well trending about the same. I don't think it's going to accelerate.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning, Fran and Mike. I was wondering if we might be able to discuss a bit more about your mid-term thoughts on the competitive landscape. For some time, of course, we've seen the impact of increased competition in the market with respect to how devices are sold, pricing of services, etc. And at least from our end, the most draconian fears have yet to be realized. As we head into 2016, both of the comparatively smaller carriers seem to be positioning themselves to be levering up here, albeit one of them synthetically through the lease company. With that in mind, are we potentially entering a period in which the focus may increasingly shift towards increased returns versus one that is overly emphasizing competition? If so, how do you believe you can fare in that type of environment?

FRAN SHAMMO: I guess, first of all, let's set the stage that the wireless industry has always been very competitive and even through all this competitiveness, the industry themselves continues to grow. Even though everyone thinks that the industry is slowing, we continue to have net adds overall. Tablet has become a bigger piece. Data continues to grow. So the industry overall, although very competitive, continues to grow despite all that.

Our focus has always been competing on network quality, reliability and simplicity. That is how we have been winning for the past 18 years and that's our focus going forward. You can see that with our new brand campaign, Better Matters, because what we believe with our brand and our campaign is we're trying to send the message that although some say video and data are not as important and people are willing to get disrupted, I think if you talked to millennials, the thing that frustrates them the most is the spinning wheel when they want to watch a video or download something.

So our focus on our brand is better does matter. We have the best network. We are the most reliable and we have become a more simple company to deal with with our simplicity of pricing. So that's where we look to compete. I think the fourth quarter will be a competitive quarter, as it always is every year. I think you're going to see promotions in the marketplace and this industry is going to compete as we always have. But I think our differentiation is how we differentiated ourselves through this whole entire process of installment sale and now rental. As I said before, the rental programs don't seem to be having any impact or appeasing to our customers.

So I would say that we will continue to do the same. As far as how the industry changes, I think what you are seeing from us is we are going in a different direction with our go90 launch. We're appealing to a millennial population with our network and our products. And I do think that, as we've said before, you can only price down so much and then you need to generate cash. I think, as you said, some have to start generating cash in order to invest in their networks to support the growth of the data or else things are going to start to fall apart and I think you are starting to see some of that in some of the national RootMetrics drive tests on where some of the networks are starting to feel pressure and starting fall down in the rankings.

We continue to invest heavily in our networks, as I said before. You should continue to see us as a flat overall capital company, but Wireless continues to trend up. That is important for the product set we are launching. So I do think there will be more focus on returns and profitability and that is good for the industry.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for that helpful color.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. I'd like to go back to a question I think David asked earlier about sort of your relationship with the cable industry. One of the things that has come up is the MVNO agreement that you guys signed several years ago. And because it was signed several years ago, it is perceived to be maybe a little outdated. So I'm just curious do you still feel comfortable with the agreement the way it's structured? Do you feel like it is enabling the cable companies to do whatever they want? Are you open-minded if they approached you about redoing it if they felt that the industry has evolved to a point where the agreement was stale and it was not likely to create value for either you or for them?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think that you stated it, Brett. We have an existing MVNO agreement and we were informed that they are going to execute on that agreement. The agreement is the agreement. I am not going to get into whether we are discussing revising the agreement or the terms and conditions of that since it's under NDA and we will see how this plays out. Obviously, the industry is moving. Cable is going to do what they are going to do and we're going to do what we're going to do.

I think that, again, though what I would say is we truly believe that Wi-Fi is a complementary wireless network, if you will, with LTE and we don't believe one replaces the other. Just like when we launched LTE we said, look, it's not going to replace Wi-Fi, it's not going to replace broadband into the home. Similar, Wi-Fi is not going to replace LTE. So I think that's where it stands right now, so I really won't interject anymore around the MVNO.

BRETT FELDMAN: Just a quick follow-up since you mentioned Wi-Fi and I was thinking about small cells. I think you had earlier said you were looking to deploy unlicensed LTE maybe in trial phases I think either this year, early next year. Where are you on that?

FRAN SHAMMO: We're right on course. We're actually testing in the labs now and we are looking to deploy sometime in 2016 and again, the unlicensed LTE is a great piece for us to increase our capacity and again, another differentiator between LTE and Wi-Fi is LTE is a fully managed network; Wi-Fi is not. When you start to load up Wi-Fi, that's why you start to see real degradation in service, whereas with LTE and then overlaying unlicensed LTE, we can dynamically increase capacity when we see that capacity needing increased. So it's going to be a very viable tool for us in order to increase capacity without deploying a lot of dollars.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Craig Moffett, MoffettNathanson.

CRAIG MOFFETT, ANALYST, MOFFETTNATHANSON: Good morning. Two questions, if I could. First, you talked a little bit about the upcoming auction. I wonder if you could just talk a little bit about how you think about different spectrum bands at this point with the options I guess out there being 600 megahertz from the auction versus 2.5 gigahertz from Sprint that may be for sale versus Charlie Ergen's spectrum that is mostly in the 2.1 range.

And then if you could also just talk about on the Wireline side, how do you think about your commitment to the Wireline business in fios going forward with Altice coming into the New York market, but you divesting some properties outside of the Northeast? Is that still a meaningful focus or would you look to reduce your exposure to Wireline if you had the opportunity?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Craig. I appreciate it. On the auction and the spectrum bands, it's a good question because the current auction is a 600 megahertz band and as you know, we deployed LTE contiguously on 700 megahertz. That doesn't mean that we can't operate with 600 megahertz, but 600 and 700 don't play well together. There's a lot of interference. So where we have 700, there would be a lot of work to deploy a 600 megahertz spectrum. But there's areas where we could use lower band spectrum, but it's probably not the top priority. We like the higher band like AWS. We've said that all along that Charlie is sitting on very good spectrum. It's very good for capacity, which is why we spent $10.4 billion in the auction. But we also can do things like we've done in Chicago and New York, where we felt the license cost was way too high and we instead decided to deploy small cells and get capacity in a more reasonable, cheaper way, if you will. Now some of this spectrum will come back to market. We don't know how the FCC will treat that yet, so we will just wait and see, but higher frequency spectrum is capacity and that's really what we need at this point in time.

As far as the Wireline commitment, look, I think with the three divestitures in the South, they were more or less footprints which were not contiguous to anything else. Most of that property was copper, not fiber. So when we look at the East Coast, it's a much different footprint. We will have covered over 70% of the footprint with our fios product. This is a -- we are very committed to it. We are investing over $4 billion into the Wireline company a year, so that shows our commitment from a capital investment perspective. We have already passed 20 million homes when we committed to originally 18 million, so we are very committed to the fios product.

It goes hand-in-hand with our Wireless strategy and I think if you've asked anybody like an Altice if you were going to come in and compete for fiber into the home, you certainly would either pick the East Coast or the West Coast and they've started with Cablevision in the East Coast. So we have a very viable footprint and we are committed to that. Now, again, as I have always said, you never say never. And of course, Lowell and I are always open to new options and we always keep our eyes open for that. But, at this point, we are very committed to the Wireline business.

CRAIG MOFFETT: Thanks, guys.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: We have time for one more question if you can please tee that up.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Atkin, RBC Capital Markets.

JONATHAN ATKIN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. So my question is on enterprise and I just wondered if you're seeing any notable changes in competitive behavior versus other carriers. And then just on Wireless on the network side, if you could just remind us the approximate timeline for AWS redeployment. And then when would the network be ready for VoLTE-only phones to be sold at retail? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: All right, great. On the enterprise piece, I guess what I would say is we are seeing more or less the same. There has really been no change. I think there's a lot of competition. There's a lot of price compression continuing in the IP space. As we've said before, the strategic side around security and data centers, but even within the data center space now, there's an awful lot of competition happening with price compression. So I think what you are seeing is a trend that we think will continue as we revamp the portfolio, if you will, and come into more of where we are going to be willing to compete. So I think you're just going to see more of the same here.

As far as the Wireless network and deployment of AWS, we are looking at probably in the 2017-2018 timeframe with that similar to where LTE would be for starting in 2016 and then, of course -- so that will continue to deploy out there. Then on the phone only where we would only get an LTE-only handset, probably more to the end of 2016 is where we are looking to deploy an LTE-only handset.

JONATHAN ATKIN: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: That takes us to the end of the questions. I'd like to turn the call back onto Fran to close.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. I'd just like to close with a few key points. So through the first nine months, we have solidly executed on our fundamentals, delivering quality customer growth and strong financial results while positioning the business for the future and returning value to shareholders. This execution has generated strong cash flows, enabling us to consistently invest in our networks, platforms, future growth and innovation.

In addition, we have returned value to shareholders and maintained a strong balance sheet, keeping us on track with our deleveraging plans. As I highlighted earlier, we have returned more than $11 billion to date through dividends and a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program. In September, our Board of Directors again reiterated their confidence with a 2.7% dividend increase, making this the ninth consecutive year of a dividend increase.

We look forward to maintaining our positive momentum in the fourth quarter as we execute our strategy, launch new products and services like go90, positioning ourselves for future growth and creating value for customers and shareholders. Thank you again for joining Verizon today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151021ebak001b9
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,662 words
   PD
21 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Marley. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. A replay and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran goes through our results I would like to highlight a few items. GAAP reported earnings for the quarter were $1.04 per share compared to $1.01 per share in the second quarter of last year. There were no special items of a nonoperational nature in the second quarter of this year.

The second quarter of last year included $0.10 per share from a gain on the sale of spectrum. So on an adjusted basis EPS growth was 14.3%. Adjusted EBITDA growth for the quarter, excluding this prior-year gain, was 6%.

Through the first half of the year, earnings totaled $2.06 per share compared with adjusted earnings of $1.76 per share last year. However, as we have consistently pointed out, last year's adjusted EPS would've been about $0.07 higher on a non-GAAP illustrative basis if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for the entire first quarter. On this more comparable basis the adjusted EPS growth rate for the first half of this year was 12.6%.

Beginning this quarter we are reporting Wireless equipment revenue and Wireless cost of equipment in our consolidated statements of income. In our Wireless segment we are reporting the cost of equipment and the cost of service, which were previously combined as cost of service and sales. Prior-period detail at both the consolidated and Wireless segment level is included in the financial and operating information schedules on our website.

I would also remind you that our Wireline results include the operations that we agreed to sell to Frontier. This will be the case until the transaction closes, which is on track for the first half of 2016. As we pointed out last quarter, the assets and liabilities associated with these operations have been classified on the balance sheet as held-for-sale and, as such, we are no longer recording depreciation expense. For the full year we continue to estimate the earnings benefit to be about $0.12 to $0.13 per share.

The acquisition of AOL, which we announced in mid-May, closed on June 23. Our balance sheet at June 30 includes the AOL assets and liabilities. Our income statement for the second quarter does not reflect any results of AOL operations for the last seven days of the month due to immateriality. The AOL results of operations will be fully included in the third quarter.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. Our second-quarter results demonstrate that we continue to compete effectively and execute our strategy, which is focused on providing consistent network reliability and a great customer experience. Once again, we delivered strong financial and operating results with double-digit growth in earnings and strong cash flows.

We believe that steady and consistent network and platform investment provides the foundation for innovative products and services for future profitable growth. We are committed to building the business for the future through a disciplined capital allocation model that we outlined almost two years ago and continue to execute.

Through the first half of this year, we have invested approximately $18 billion in spectrum licenses and capital for future network capacity. We also invested more than $4 billion to acquire new capabilities with the AOL transaction, which supports our long-term video strategy.

In addition, we returned more than $9 billion to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. The $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program was completed in early June, resulting in an overall reduction of 101.6 million shares.

We facilitated these initiatives while keeping our leverage ratio essentially unchanged and remaining on track with our deleverage plan. On the execution front, we had a strong quarter of quality connections growth and profitability in Wireless. We had more than 1.1 million retail postpaid net adds, which included 321,000 net phone additions.

We also had very strong customer retention, with postpaid churn of 0.90%, down 4 basis points year over year. This was our lowest churn rate in three years.

Total Wireless revenue grew 5.3% and EBITDA increased by 9.1%. Our EBITDA margin on both service and total Wireless revenue expanded on a year-over-year basis. Our Wireline results were once again highlighted by growth in the consumer market, where revenues were up over 4%. Our segment EBITDA margin expanded modestly on a sequential and year-over-year basis.

Now let's get into our second-quarter performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 4.

Total operating revenue was $32.2 billion in the quarter, and if we exclude the prior-period revenues from the public sector business we sold last year, the comparable growth rate would have been 2.8%. Consolidated top-line revenue growth continued to be driven by Wireless and FiOS usage. We believe that future revenue growth will come from video and the Internet of Things at both the network and platform layers.

Over the past several years, we have been investing in these platforms and positioning ourselves to capitalize on these new sources of growth.

In terms of video, we will introduce our mobile-first OTT video product in late summer. As you know, we have already announced some initial content partners. Our acquisition of AOL further enhances our video strategy through its digital media and advertising platform capabilities, a portfolio of content brands with a domestic average of about 190 million unique visitors per month and its loyal email subscription customer base. We are excited to have the very talented people of AOL on the Verizon team and look forward to their contributions to our success.

As far as Internet of Things, we think that the transportation, healthcare, and energy industries in particular present great opportunities for us and we are very active fostering innovation in these areas. We are very well-positioned to capitalize on these new growth opportunities and we will continue to develop business models to monetize usage on our network and at the platform level.

Within our current results, new revenue streams from the Internet of Things and telematics continue to emerge and grow. These revenues totaled approximately $165 million in the quarter and about $320 million year-to-date. We continue to be focused on reducing our overall cost structure through process improvements and operating efficiencies, while improving the overall customer experience. Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.8 billion, up 6% on an adjusted basis, and our EBITDA margin expanded by 110 basis points to 36.6%.

Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 5.

As highlighted a few minutes ago, our capital allocation model is disciplined and consistent. The priorities are to invest necessary capital in our networks to stay ahead of demand, return value to shareholders, and maintain a strong balance sheet. The cash flows we generate enable us to execute on this investment strategy, pay competitive dividends, and deleverage to further strengthen the balance sheet.

In the second quarter, cash flows from operations were $8.7 billion. Through the first half, cash flow from operations totaled $18.9 billion, but included just under $2.4 billion of proceeds related to the tower monetization transaction, which is nonrecurring. We also continue to securitize Wireless equipment installment receivables and received about $1.2 billion in cash proceeds in the second quarter. Free cash flow for the first half of the year, excluding the tower proceeds, totaled $8.4 billion.

Capital expenditures were $4.5 billion in the quarter and $8.2 billion for the first half of the year. We expect capital expenditures for 2015 to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.

Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals. We ended the quarter with $113.7 billion of gross debt, net debt of $110.7 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.5 times. As I said earlier, our deleveraging plans remain on track.

Now, let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 6.

In the Wireless business, revenue growth, profitability, and cash flows are driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base. As I said earlier, total Wireless operating revenues grew 5.3% in the quarter to $22.6 billion. Service revenue of $17.7 billion declined 2.2%, while equipment revenue increased to $3.9 billion, up nearly 62%. Service revenue plus installment billings increased 2.3%.

For customers who select device installment plans, lower service pricing is exchanged for higher device payments. Equipment revenue, which is largely recognized upfront, is much higher than in the subsidy model. Service revenue growth will continue to be pressured as more customers choose unsubsidized devices and equipment revenues will continue to increase with installment plan adoption.

Customer demand for device installment plans has increased. The percentage of phone activations on installments grew to 49% in the quarter compared with 39% in the first quarter and only 18% a year ago. Phone activations on device installment plans totaled 4.7 million in the quarter and we now have more than 14 million customers on these plans, representing roughly 16% of our postpaid phone base.

Looking ahead, we believe that the percentage of phone activations on installment will continue to increase and will likely be around 60% in the third quarter.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.9 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 9.1%. Our EBITDA service margin increased to 56.1%, up 580 basis points. The EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue expanded to 43.9% in the quarter, up from 42.3% a year ago.

Now let's turn to slide 7 and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth.

We ended the quarter with 109.5 million total retail connections. This does not include any wholesale or Internet of Things connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 5.2% to 103.7 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.8 million.

Postpaid gross additions improved sequentially to 3.9 million, but were down year over year, due primarily to lower tablet volumes. As I highlighted earlier, we had a very strong customer retention in the quarter with postpaid churn improving both sequentially and year over year to 0.90%. One of our priorities this year was to improve customer retention and we are doing so with a disciplined approach, focusing on high-value customers.

Our retail postpaid net additions of more than 1.1 million were nearly twice the net additions in the first quarter. The quality of the net adds remained very strong with 842,000 new 4G smartphones in the quarter. Postpaid phone additions totaled 321,000 as net phone adds of 588,000 were partially offset by a net decline of 266,000 basic phones. Tablet net adds totaled 852,000 in the quarter and net prepaid devices declined by 126,000.

Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 8. Total postpaid device activations totaled 11.3 million in the quarter, up nearly 2%. About 85% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablets. We ended the quarter with 70.1 million smartphones in total and our smartphone penetration increased to approximately 81% of total phones.

4G devices now comprise approximately 73% of our retail postpaid connections base. As you would expect, growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage. Approximately 87% of our total data traffic is on the LTE network and overall traffic on LTE has essentially doubled in the past year.

About 7.2% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the second quarter. The quality of our phone base continues to improve as we add new 4G customers and upgrade our basic phone and 3G smartphone customers to 4G devices as part of our retention efforts.

In the past year, our 4G smartphone connections have increased by 17.8 million, or about 40%, to 61.6 million. We still have a sizable opportunity remaining with roughly 16 million basic phones and about 9 million 3G smartphones in our postpaid connections base.

We also have a profitable growth opportunity with tablets as they provide good value through increased data consumption and lower churn rate at the account level. We ended the quarter with 9.6 million tablets in our postpaid connection base, so overall penetration is still under 10%.

In terms of capital spending, we continue investing for the capacity to further optimize our 4G LTE network and position the network for the future. Wireless capital spending totaled $3.1 billion in the quarter and $5.5 billion for the first half of the year, about 4% higher on a year-to-date basis. National studies consistently rate Verizon as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader. We lead in what matters most to customers, coverage and consistent, reliable performance.

Currently our 700MHz and AWS-1 spectrum bands, which represent about 40% of our licensed spectrum portfolio, are utilized in our LTE network. We are just beginning to re-farm 1900MHz PCS spectrum from 3G to 4G LTE in select markets, representing the next phase of spectrum to be deployed to serve our growing LTE usage.

Our network densification plans, which include small cells, DAS nodes, and in-building solutions, are on schedule. In New York City we are well into our deployment and continue to scale and develop a healthy pipeline. Downtown Chicago is another large urban market with small cell densification plans well underway, consistent with what we outlined on our post-auction conference call.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 9.

In the consumer business, FiOS continues to be the driver of our positive revenue trends, resulting in revenue growth of 4.5%. Mass markets, which includes small business, grew 3.2%. FiOS now represents 79% of consumer revenue. In the second quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 9.8%, driven by customer growth, increased penetration of our Quantum products, and higher pay-per-view sales due to the prizefight in early May.

Our FiOS Quantum broadband service continues to scale and with a higher profitability contribution. At the end of the quarter, 64% of our consumer FiOS Internet customers subscribe to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher. We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabit speed tier, where 23% of our consumer FiOS customers currently subscribe.

In broadband, we added 72,000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.8 million FiOS Internet subscribers, which is 41.4% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers decreased by 25,000 in the quarter. In FiOS video, we added 26,000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.8 million FiOS video subscribers, which represents 35.7% penetration.

We have strong customer interest in our Custom TV offering. More than one-third of our FiOS video gross adds this quarter opted for a Custom TV package and we also saw migration demand from existing customers. We will continue to work with content providers on this new product, which so far is ahead of our expectations. While adoption of Custom TV may initially have a negative impact on revenue growth, it should improve profitability.

In the second quarter, we experienced a slowing of FiOS customer growth, which we attribute to triple play offer changes at a time of increased competitive intensity. We have since made some promotional adjustments and our exit rate sales volumes have shown improvement.

We are focused on the continued evolution of our Wireline network. In the second quarter, we converted 51,000 copper customers, bringing our first-half total to 98,000. As I have previously noted, post conversion we experienced significant improvements in customer satisfaction and a lower cost to serve.

Our agreement with Frontier for the sale of Wireline assets in the noncontiguous states of Florida, Texas, and California is also part of our network evolution, as it will enable us to better focus our efforts on the highly dense markets in the Northeast. We are working closely with Frontier to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and assure a seamless transition. We are making progress and remain on track to close the transaction in the first half of 2016.

Let's turn to slide 10 and cover enterprise and wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.

In the enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the second quarter, global enterprise revenue declined 6.4%. Excluding foreign-exchange pressure, the revenue decline was similar to the first quarter. Declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continue to outweigh growth in the newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale. Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by the competitive price compression, which is offsetting growth in applications.

In our global wholesale business, revenues declined 4.5% in the second quarter, which was better than expected due to some nonrecurring items. We expect continued price compression, technology migration, and other secular challenges to pressure wholesale revenues, which we expect to decline in the 5% to 6% range for the full year.

Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment were down 2.2%, which included some FX pressure. The segment EBITDA margin was 23.5% in the quarter, up 10 basis points. We are very committed to reducing our cost structure while maintaining strong customer satisfaction.

The Wireline headcount was down 10% year over year and we continue to strive for gains in operational efficiency. As I have said, we are far from satisfied and we will continue to work on our cost structure.

Capital spending in Wireline for the first half of the year totaled $2.2 billion, down 19%.

Let's move next to our summary slide. We have had a good first half of 2015, delivering strong financial and operating results with double-digit growth in earnings and strong cash flows. As always, we continue to invest in our networks and platforms to position us for future growth.

We are very focused on developing new products and services in mobile video and the Internet of Things. We are excited about the potential for revenues from these new products and services to grow quickly and become more meaningful in the future. Our acquisition of AOL will be a key piece in our over-the-top mobile video strategy, accelerating our capabilities in digital media and advertising.

We are confident in our ability to sustain profitability. Consolidated EBITDA for the first half of the year was up nearly 6% on an adjusted basis and our EBITDA margin expanded 90 basis points to 37%. In terms of consolidated revenue outlook, we expect third-quarter revenue growth to be higher than this quarter.

For the full year, our consolidated revenue guidance is for growth of at least 3%. These growth estimates exclude revenue from AOL, which will become part of our results in the third quarter. We continue to target overall capital spending in the range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion in 2015.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Marley, we're now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. I guess two, if I could. Fran, could you kind of give us a little bit more color on the change in the revenue guidance for the year? Obviously what's different between when you were expecting 4% versus 3%? Then obviously what the moving parts are to get accelerated revenue growth in the second half?

Then I think the second question would be, for the markets reacting to something today, I think it's the sequential movement in the ARPA or the ARPU. Obviously there's lots of moving parts in there. There's the impact of EIP. There is the impact of mix change.

But I think the market is also trying to see through those and figure out what the net movement is in terms of people pricing themselves up in the buckets and generating more ARPU versus some of the givebacks and the competitive pressure we are seeing inside the system at Verizon. If you could give us more color on how the net is moving on pricing inside the base, that would be helpful. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, good. Thanks, David. First on the revenue guidance; look, coming into this year we set a priority that we said we would protect our base. And I think if you look at the results of the first quarter and the second quarter, the churn speaks for itself with 4 basis points improvement from the first quarter year over year and then the second quarter year over year, with the 0.90% being the lowest churn rate in the last three years that we have posted up.

In addition, some of the other changes in the assumption fact is the take rate of Edge. I would tell you we never anticipated that Edge would accelerate as much as it has, and looking forward into 3Q being at 60%, that's much higher than we had anticipated. But the market has moved us there.

And, quite honestly, it's getting more and more confusing at the frontline and this really translates into simplicity for our customers in choosing the Edge plan. And that is where the market has gone, so that's where we need to compete.

And then finally, from an upgrade perspective, going back to protection of our base, we're up 800,000 upgrades year over year. So more people are selecting the new price plans when they get a new handset and that puts us on the Edge, which obviously generates more equipment revenue and puts pressure on the service revenue. Coming into this year we knew that service revenue would dilute. We are seeing more dilution than we anticipated because more customers are selecting that Edge plan.

But I think just a couple things to keep in check here, because when you zero in on one metric you are walking away with the wrong impression as to what's happening to the overall P&L.

So, first off, we generated growth in revenue of 5.3% in Wireless this quarter. If you look at the first half of the year, that's $2.5 billion of revenue growth just in the first half. You annualize that, that's growth that is bigger than some Fortune 500 companies generate in the full year of revenues.

So this is still a very healthy business and it goes to what the overall industry is as well. So there's a lot going on in the industry to generate more usage in the future.

If you look at the IARPA, which is the installment plus the revenue per account, we are up 2.3%. So if you just focus in on the service revenue, of course that's going to dilute year over year, but I think you have to step up and look at the overall financials of Verizon Wireless. In addition, if you look at the connections, we are up 4.3% year over year in connections and we're also up in accounts.

So when you look out to the future you are adding accounts; you are adding devices. That is also going to be more usage on the network. And, obviously, the whole future of the industry is based on generating more usage on the network so that people want to use more, and we know from a fact that more people are consuming more video in wireless today than there were a year ago. So that's all part of the strategy.

You look at tablets; we're so less than 10% of the base in penetration of tablets. That's still another growth area for us.

Then you look at Internet of Things. Internet of Things is still in early stages for the entire industry. There's more and more devices coming out that is going to generate revenue in the future.

And then, of course, if you just look at Verizon, we have the whole AOL and OTT launch, which we will get to. We just launched Custom TV in Wireline and that in itself will also put pressure on the top line. So if you think about the Custom TV package, customers are now only paying for what they want to view and we are only paying the content providers for what our customers want to view.

So what you are seeing is you are seeing a decrease in revenue, but you are also seeing a decrease in content costs that actually improves the profitability. So if you look back and you look at the entire portfolio of what's going on, I think you walk away with a very different conclusion than if you just look at the ARPU, because we know that ARPU is going to get condensed with the new EIP plan.

So thanks, David, for the question.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning. Fran, you talked a bit about productivity and cost initiatives earlier. Can you just update us on the steps you are taking to offset the dilution from the divestiture to Frontier next year? And perhaps in the context of that you can just update us on the union negotiations. I guess that deadline is coming up here shortly. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Simon. On productivity and cost, look, we've been active now for three years and our VLSS program, Verizon Lean Six Sigma program, continues to generate savings. If you just look at Wireline, year over year down almost 8,000 employees from a year-over-year basis and still generating the great customer service and the volumes that we have there. So that speaks to the efficiency that we are getting both in the network efficiency side, reduction of over time.

And of course, as the industry matures now, you are looking at a lot of houses that already have an ONT on the side of the house so it's less labor because you're just activating the house that now doesn't really need much of a truck rolled to go to it. So there's a lot of efficiencies there. In the Wireless side a lot of concentration on self-serve and customer service centers. And then we go to structure around the Wireless unit.

We are still on that whole productivity cost routine and we still believe that we have a very full runway in front of us, and you're going to continue to see us take costs out of this structure. If you just look at year over year on cash costs alone, if you look at our revenue growth versus cash costs, we're really maintaining cash costs at a very slow incremental increase. So that speaks to the efficiency that we are driving through all of our initiatives.

On the Frontier side, we still have -- we are expecting to close this transaction towards the end of the first quarter, so we still have about eight to nine months of planning activity. We are well on our way and I think what we have done in the past speaks for itself as how we will address this in the future.

Obviously, I will talk more about this as we get closer, but we are still designing those plans. Obviously you know Dan Mead is leading that team and he is very diligent in what he is doing to prepare us for the separation of that unit and getting our costs within alignment to offset the stranded cost perspective.

On the union side of the house, just as we know there are, in total, 27 collective bargaining agreements covering about 38,000 people in nine Eastern states. We began formal negotiations on June 22 and to jumpstart the negotiations the Company put forth a comprehensive offer on the table, which included wage increases and changes to current contracts, to help us manage our costs and increase our flexibility to better serve our customers.

Simply stated, we will need to modernize our legacy contracts to better position us to compete in the digital age. Given the level of change we are seeking with respect to benefit cost management, as well as work roles, our expectation is that the negotiation process will take some time. As you know, it is not unusual for negotiations to continue well beyond the expiration date of the contract, which is August 1.

We intend to work through the process until we achieve a new agreement that addresses the needs of our business and preserves the high quality of our jobs for our employees. So I think, as far as that goes, that is probably all I'm going to say around the union negotiations. It is early on and we still have a lot of work to do.

SIMON FLANNERY: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks, guys. I guess, Fran, if you could start on expanding on Custom TV. Any update on discussions with programmers there? Are people sort of -- it seems like people are taking smaller packages than they would have otherwise. What is the average number of add-ons and any particular favorites that people are either walking away from or going to?

Then, second, just a housekeeping issue. I wonder if you can detail for us the impact of AOL on the P&L. Just sort of rough numbers on the different areas and how you're going to report that going forward, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On Custom TV, obviously we know we were paving the path to a new venture here to give customers what they wanted. Obviously I'm not going to comment on any litigation matters currently in effect with Disney and ESPN, as everyone knows that we are being sued on the contractual arrangement there. I am really not going to talk about that.

But, look, we continue to have a great partnership with Disney and ESPN and we will continue to work through that disagreement in our business relationships. And I will tell you, if you just look at the over-the-top product, ESPN is participating with college sports in that. So we will continue to work with ESPN and the lawsuit will take its own course of action. Again, we believe we are in our contractual rights to offer what we are offering.

From a customer selection perspective, I will tell you that this has certainly exceeded our expectations. As we saw through the quarter once we launched this, we saw the uptake rate increase. As I said in my prepared remarks, over a third of the customers now coming in are selecting a Custom TV package.

I will tell you that, as far as the number of genres that they take, it's less than what we anticipated, but they are selecting based on their own favorability. I'm not going to get into who selects what and how many we're doing there, but I will tell you that it is -- it will put pressure on the top line, but it obviously is going to improve our profitability here from a programming standpoint. So we will continue to work through that.

The other thing I wanted to mention just the growth metrics of FiOS here, as you know, given the disputes that we had in Custom TV, we also were blacked out from many content providers in advertising this product during the quarter. In two of the biggest markets, both New York and Philadelphia, we were unable to advertise the Custom TV package for approximately 45 days until we worked through that. So that also contributed to some of the slower growth in FiOS because it took us out of market for that period of time during the quarter.

Then, of course, in addition to that we had the Time Warner Cable separation of the merger, which both entrants came back into the market pretty competitively. So that puts some pressure on this as well. But even with that we saw some great progress with the Custom TV package.

On the second piece, Phil, with AOL, there is nothing included in AOL from a P&L perspective this quarter. We closed it at the end of the quarter. It was totally immaterial and from a cutoff perspective it just wasn't materially enough for us to include.

However, we did include the opening balance sheet. We've done a preliminary assessment on the fair value of the assets that we acquired. We had an independent third-party do that on a preliminary basis, and that is included in the balance sheet.

So you will see goodwill has increased for the acquisition as well as our customer list, because there was value assigned to the subscription business of AOL. But from a P&L standpoint, there was no revenue or expenses included this quarter. That will be included for the first time in the third quarter, and at this point we will be including that in our overall corporate results for the remainder of this year.

Then, as I said before, we will have to wait to see where we go with this, whether we include it as a separate viewable or we disclose revenues or how we're going to do that in the future. And I don't have an answer yet on that piece. We will wait till first quarter and entering into 2016 to give you more of a view into what happens going forward.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks and thanks for the comments on the retention efforts. Just as a follow-up to that, you have seen your churn rate in postpaid decline year over year for two quarters now. Do you have conviction you're going to be able to see your churn rate sort of stay at a low run rate for the balance of the year in light of your focus on it?

And then just you noted that you are still planning on launching the mobile video service this summer. Are we going to see the full rollout this summer or is it going to be something that is going to be phased in over time? And just along those lines, where are you with the adoption or the penetration of your multicast devices? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Brett. First, on churn. We have made -- as I said coming into this year, we were really going to concentrate on protection of our base and I think we have shown that. If you just look at -- we don't really disclose this, but if you just look at our basic churn rate, we've seen even double what we've seen in the overall churn rate improvement.

We are maintaining those basic phone customers and converting them into a 4G LTE smartphone device and we're seeing really good progress on that. And that is part of the $80 price point that we have in the market. It has been very, very successful for us in the retention of our customer base.

But speaking on the churn piece, I just want to caution everybody, be careful because there is seasonality in the churn. Generally third quarter is a little bit higher than the second quarter, but we do believe that we will still be able to improve on a year-over-year basis.

As far as the over-the-top launch, we are absolutely going to be ready to go by late summer. It won't be the full entire of everything that we contemplate within the product set. It will be an initial launch and as the year goes on it will progress.

More to come on that, but as you know, we have signed up a number of content providers: sports channels, DreamWorks, AwesomenessTV, VICE Media, Scripps, and of course, we can't leave out the AOL content that is coming with the acquisition, including Huff Post and TechCrunch. So we have a very good lineup.

This is a lineup that is really around all live-type news clips and sports and events, so very different than what anyone else is bringing to the marketplace. More to come on that this summer from Marni and Tim Armstrong and his team, who now owns this product set.

Then on the multicast, again as we go through this, all the phones that we sold in the fourth quarter have the capability of multicast other than the 6 and the 6+, and we continue to feed the market with those multicast devices. I can't speak to exactly what the next iconic device will have in it, so we will have to wait to see what that comes out with. But this will continue to grow over the next year to have the proliferation of units in the marketplace to make this matter as we continue on with our OTT launch.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citigroup.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks and good morning. Two questions for me. Fran, first just a housekeeping item. I'm wondering if you could disclose the receivable amount for the equipment installment plan that you sold, both current and noncurrent, at the end of the second quarter.

And then, more strategically, can you talk about how important the Wireline business is for the health and profitability of your Wireless business, and how important it is or isn't to keep those two businesses together over time? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Michael. First off, on the receivable; we are fairly flat, because keep in mind that we continue to securitize the receivable that removes that receivable from our books. So it is consistently flat between $2.5 billion to $3 billion, so it really hasn't changed much.

On the overall Wireline perspective, look, we have sold the three properties in the South -- Texas, California, and Florida -- because they were islands to us. Very difficult properties to operate from our scale perspective. There's still a lot of copper in those footprints and Frontier does a much better job with that, and strategically it just didn't fit for us.

But, look, I think if anyone was to enter the broadband market, the East Coast would be the first place that they would go. We have an incredible footprint that stretches from Washington DC up through Boston. The broadband connection to those homes, along with our Wireless product and the population of that segment, is critical to us. It is a strategic asset for us to continue to market and launch with our Wireless product. Over the top is going to feed into more of that as we go here strategically.

Right now Lowell and I sit and we are very satisfied with the portfolio of assets we have. From an enterprise space, that enterprise asset is very critical to our enterprise customers, both from a Wireless and a Wireline perspective. They are important relationships to us.

Right now, I'm not saying that if someone did come in and take a look at the assets; as we've always said we are open to anything. But right now, strategically, we are very satisfied with the asset portfolio we have and it is strategic to us. Right now we are content with what we have.

MIKE ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Thanks. Fran, maybe just a quick comment on margin pacing throughout the year. Now we have more Edge uptake, just how we should be thinking about that typical fourth-quarter seasonality.

Second, on the Wireless side, anything on your radar with respect to leasing plans? And then just finally on the enterprise piece. I know you mentioned pricing and competition there. Just trying to get a sense for if there is something going on that's incredibly irrational or is it just a byproduct, more competition in certain areas? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, thanks. So, Mike, on the margin pricing; look, I think that the financials speak for themselves. And of course, we will get a lot of flavor around how the EIP helped the profitability and all this.

But again, as Mike and I have continued to say, if you look at total revenue and the total EBITDA margin, that kind of neutralizes out the impact of EIP and you see that we are increasing this year over year. Even if you look at Wireless margin at 56% in this quarter, even if you normalize out the EIP benefit, you are still over 50% margins for that business.

So I think it speaks to itself of the -- we continue to be an and company. We are going to grow and we are going to generate the profitability, and we are going to do this in a very disciplined, manageable approach. We've said that we felt that coming into the year that we would hold our margins, given all the competitive pressures, and we're still on track to do that.

So I think the margin itself speaks for itself. And from a seasonality standpoint, the one thing I would say, going back to the change in the revenue guidance, is, as we look out into the fourth quarter, keep in mind fourth quarter last year was an unusually very high-volume quarter that generated a lot of equipment revenue and the bulk of our sales were still on the equipment subsidy model. And that hovered around the new 6 and 6+ that came out.

I just don't see that the next iconic device is going to be substantially different and, therefore, I don't see that -- and this is just me speaking -- I don't see the volume there in the fourth quarter that we had last year from a total iconic change of the 6 and the 6+. So I think that will also benefit us from just a margin perspective.

On Wireless and leasing plans, look, the leasing plan is just a fancy way to do installment plans, but of course, you get another accounting benefit by putting assets up on your books and being able to amortize them below the EBITDA line. So at this point we have no plans to do any type of leasing arrangement.

Then on the enterprise side, look, as I have said before, 2015 would look like 2014. I still do see some glimmers of hope here, especially in the government sector where we are starting to sign some large contracts. But as you know, in this business, I sign a large contract today; it takes me at least 12 months to implement that before I start to see the revenue benefit.

So I'm looking that there could be some positives here going into 2016 on the enterprise side. Obviously it's being impacted by FX right now, but this is a very competitive environment with thousands of players who have niches. We do very well on the security side of the house. We are doing well in the data center side on the whole cloud services, but these revenue streams are just not large enough to offset the price compression that we are seeing in IP.

Again, I see some glimmers of hope in IP where maybe it's starting to stabilize again, and if that happens then we should see some improvement. But right now it would be a cautious outlook from me.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. First on the Edge take rate, Fran, how high can this go over time? You gave the guidance for 60% next quarter, but do you see a time where in the not-too-distant future you could phase out subsidized plans and move all towards these Edge plans?

And then the other number that stuck out was the lower churn. You talked about some of the efforts to lower churn. Do you think you can maintain this level of below 1% going forward? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. On the Edge take rate, look, this is where the market has gone. If you look at all the advertising in the market, it's around the access point and this is where we are at. So I think that where we are going to end up here is you will never get to 100% overall because of corporate accounts and so forth. They are not going to take an installment-type plan, so I don't think we ever get to, quote, 100% in our base.

But from a consumer standpoint, yes, I could see us getting to where we are more heavily, very heavily concentrated on the installment side of the house. Quite honestly, as I said, from a frontline perspective it would be much easier for them to sell one product. Simplicity is important to us. You're going to see us as we gradually move through here; the market is moving us there so we are eventually going to get there.

From a churn perspective, as I said, I think with all the programs we have going we are making very good progress in our base. Our customers are loyal. You've seen us running our new ads and some of our customers are coming back to us because they were dissatisfied with where they went. So I think that this all proves to again the basis of how Verizon Wireless has been successful and will continue to be successful is the quality of our network, the consistent performance that our network gives to our customers, and the breadth of that network across the United States.

So that's really what it comes to. And as I have said before, the number one reason the customer leaves you is because of quality of the network. Price is number two. The quality of the network still is overwhelmingly more important than price. Not to say that customers are not price sensitive, but we think that we can continue to be very competitive and protect our high-value base. So, yes, I do think that we will continue on this track.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much and good morning, folks. Was wondering if we could switch gears a little bit in terms of the network investment strategy here, Fran. You know, we start to hear things coming out of Washington; 600 megahertz seems to be like pushing for an early 2016 start.

First of all, how do you think about the timing on the reality of that happening? How should we think about your strategy around the need for low-band spectrum? Then sort of a bigger picture question here.

Clearly, focus remains on providing a compelling network experience from your side, particularly if I think about your CapEx investment and shifting towards Wireless. Was wondering if you could talk a bit more about some of the technology evolutions that you folks are embracing. Clearly, when we speak to folks sort of in the push to small cells, perhaps some the software-defined networking at (inaudible), which we haven't seen from many other players, and stuff along those lines to really try and optimize the network throughput. Any additional color would be most helpful here.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the network side, as far as the incentive auction goes, yes, the FCC is now saying that they are going to hold the auction first quarter of 2016, probably at the end of the first quarter of 2016. As you know, they had a meeting on July 16 where they were going to set the rules, but that actually got postponed. So we will have to wait to look at what the auction rules are and decide whether we're going to participate at the appropriate time.

The only thing I would say is, based on the AWS-3 auction, hopefully we have some lessons learned on what we shouldn't do with multibillion dollar companies getting favorable treatment. So we will have to see where these assessments come out.

As far as our strategy here, the need for low band spectrum for us is not a great need. As you know, we built out our LTE on the 700 megahertz, which is contiguous across the United States, which is a competitive advantage for us. We then launched our AWS-1 spectrum for capacity and now we're in the process of revamping our 1900 PCS.

So the key here is to keep in mind that, of our licensed portfolio, only 40% of our license portfolio supports LTE and 87% of the data traffic is now running through LTE. So if you look at our 1900 megahertz, the yet-to-be-deployed AWS-3 which we bought and will be deployed over the next probably 2.5 years out, and then our build strategy which we came out of the auction with in Chicago and New York, we have plenty of capacity to deal with the ramping of what we believe will happen with our OTT product and the continued pursuit of volume in the industry.

Our build out is on track. We do not necessarily need low band spectrum, but that doesn't mean that we would not participate in the incentive auction. Again, we will have to wait for the rules to come out, but obviously we are continuing down the track we set on coming out of the AWS-3 auction. At that point we will have to wait and see what happens with the FCC.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Amir, thank you. Marley, we have time for one more question, if you could queue that up I would appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thanks, Fran. Following up on Amir's question on spectrum, in the past you have said you would consider a longer-term lease agreement with a potential partner. Is that still the case? Or given your recent comments just now about capacity, what are your current thoughts on any sort of longer-term lease agreement?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. I always say you never say never, right? Look, we are open to any options, but as far as a leasing of spectrum goes, as I've said before, in order to protect the viability of our network and our planning and our capital allocation, this would have to be almost a lease in perpetuity so that you could never be held hostage by anybody. Because once you deploy a spectrum in your network, if somebody turned around 10 years from now and said I think I'm not going to lease that you anymore, that would be detrimental to your business and you just can't let that happen.

So I guess under the right terms and conditions it would be something that we could look at, but I would tell you I think that's very, very difficult given the asset that you are leasing here. So I think that's the perspective and we're concentrating on our build.

The one thing I didn't answer on Amir's question was SDN and we're well into that. Obviously LTE in itself is a software-developed network and it gives you the scalability of giving richer network experiences. Our team is working on that and we have been working on that for quite some time.

There's a lot of things will bring efficiency to the network. There is C-RAN out there. We are in the initial -- obviously 5G is being talked about in the industry. Of course, Asia is involved in 5G and of course we will start to get involved in the standard setting around 5G, so there's a lot happening in this industry for technology standpoint.

Spectrum is important. It will always be important, but it's not the only tool we have in our toolbox. From that perspective, we're concentrating on the strategy that we outlined coming out of the AWS-3 auction.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Thanks, Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Marley, thank you. But before we end the call I would like to turn the call back to Fran for some final comments.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, everybody. Again, thank you for joining us this morning. Just like to end, though, at -- through the first half of 2015 we continued to execute on the fundamentals, we position our business for the future, and we always return value to our shareholders.

On a comparable basis, first-half consolidated revenues were 3.5%. Earnings grew 12.6%. Cash flow from operations was up 11.9%. Wireless revenues increased over $2.5 billion to just under $45 billion.

We positioned ourselves for future growth. We acquired valuable mid-band spectrum in the FCC auction, invested $8 billion in capital year-to-date, and made a very strategic acquisition in AOL. AOL acquisition greatly accelerates our digital media and advertising platform capabilities, which will become a critical element of our OTT strategy and our revenue growth for the future.

We returned $9 billion to our shareholders through the first half of this year, $4 billion in dividends and $5 billion in an ASR program. We certainly look forward to a very positive second half of 2015 with confidence in our ability to execute our strategy and create value for our customers, our shareholders, and our employees.

Thank you again for joining us today and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150722eb7l000xd
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,041 words
   PD
21 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, David. Good morning and welcome to our first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.

The quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran goes through our results, I would like to highlight a few items related to our earnings. GAAP reported earnings were $1.02 per share and there were no special items of a nonoperational nature. This compares with adjusted earnings of $0.84 per share in the first quarter of 2014, an increase of 21.4%.

As a reminder, the adjusted EPS of $0.84 last year did not reflect 100% ownership of Wireless for the full quarter since the Vodafone transaction closed on February 21, 2014.

As we indicated a year ago, on the non-GAAP illustrative basis, adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2014 would have been $0.91 per share if we assumed 100% Wireless ownership for the full quarter. On this more comparable basis, growth in the first-quarter earnings per share was 12.1%.

I would also like to make a few points about our Wireline segment reporting. Our Wireline results include the operations we are selling to Frontier until the transaction closes, which is targeted for the first half of 2016. Our consolidated balance sheet reflects the assets and liabilities associated with those operations as being held for sale.

This is important because accounting rules require that depreciation expense not be recorded on assets held for sale. Therefore, Wireline depreciation expense will be lower in 2015 due to the classification of these assets. The first quarter included a $146 million pretax benefit, which equates to roughly $0.02 per share. Going forward until closing, the full-quarter benefit will be approximately $200 million pretax, or $0.03 per share.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. We are off to a strong start in 2015, with an eventful first few months behind us. We continue to execute well on our strategy of investing in networks and platforms and positioning the business for future growth. We delivered very strong financial and operating results in the first quarter with strong cash generation.

To review our active start to the year, we were successful in the AWS-3 spectrum auction, improving on our mid-band spectrum position while maintaining sound financial discipline. As we stated on our conference call in mid-February, we are very pleased with the licenses we won and are confident that they will enable us to execute efficiently on our network strategy of adding capacity through a combination of spectrum deployment and small cell technology.

Our early experiences with small cell deployment have been very favorable and we believe that the industry is making good progress on standards for utilizing unlicensed spectrum with LTE, which is already being tested in our vendor labs. We also executed several value-creating transactions that underline our commitment to extend our industry leadership in the markets we serve by being strategically focused and returning value to shareholders.

We successfully monetized our tower portfolio in a $5 billion transaction with American Tower, which closed at the end of the first quarter. We signed a definitive agreement to sell our Wireline properties in Florida, Texas, and California to Frontier for $10.5 billion. And we implemented a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program, which resulted in an immediate reduction of about 86 million shares in mid-February.

Final settlement of this transaction, including delivery of the remaining shares that we expect to receive, is scheduled to occur in the second quarter. Collectively, these transactions provide immediate value for shareholders.

Now let's move on to our primary focus, which is executing our day-to-day strategy for the benefit of our customers and shareholders. Our first-quarter results reflect strong top- and bottom-line performance. We posted solid revenue growth, high-quality earnings growth of 12%, and generated substantial free cash flow.

In Wireless, we had a solid quarter of quality connections growth and profitability. We had 565,000 retail postpaid net adds in a seasonably low-volume quarter. Total Wireless revenue grew 6.9% and EBITDA was up 6.6%. As expected, our Wireless EBITDA margin returned to more historical levels.

In Wireline, consumer revenues grew 4% and we continued to increase our FiOS penetration with quality customer growth. Total Wireline revenue was impacted by foreign-exchange pressure, but our continued focus on productivity improvements and operating efficiency resulted in EBITDA margin expansion.

Now let's get into the first-quarter performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 4.

Total operating revenue grew 3.8% in the first quarter, continuing our consistent top-line growth trend. If we excluded the first-quarter 2014 revenues from the public sector business we sold, the comparable growth rate would have been 4.2%.

Our consolidated revenue growth continues to be driven by wireless and FiOS. New revenue streams from the Internet of Things and Telematics continue to emerge and grow. In the first quarter, these revenues totaled approximately $150 million, an increase of 25%.

We continue to build upon our Internet of Things and video platforms. In particular, innovation within the transportation industry presents a great opportunity for us. Through Verizon Telematics, we are already providing a platform of manufacturer, aftermarket, and fleet services through two-way broadband connectivity to vehicle. Additionally, we will be launching Verizon Vehicle, our direct-to-consumer aftermarket product, which modernizes traditional roadside assistance and enhances driver safety and convenience.

In terms of video, we are on track to launch our mobile-first OTT video product this summer and we have already announced some initial content partners. We are excited about these new growth opportunities, which you will hear more about during the year.

In addition to top-line growth, we continue to focus on process and operating efficiencies and improving our cost structure. Consolidated EBITDA totaled $11.9 billion in the quarter, up 5.8%, and our EBITDA margin expanded by 60 basis points on an adjusted basis to 37.4%. As Mike indicated, we reported $1.02 in earnings per share in the quarter for a comparable growth rate of about 12%, so we are off to a strong start from an earnings perspective.

Let's turn now to cash flows and the balance sheet on slide 5.

Consistent with the capital allocation model we have been executing the last several years, our priorities are to invest in our networks through capital spending and spectrum acquisitions, return value to shareholders, and maintain a strong balance sheet. Our strong cash flows enable us to execute on this investment strategy, pay competitive dividends, and delever the balance sheet. The monetization of our tower portfolio enabled us to execute the $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program.

In the first quarter, cash flows from operations totaled $10.2 billion. This included approximately $2.4 billion related to the tower monetization transaction, which is nonrecurring. The remaining portion of the $5 billion of cash proceeds is reflected in the financing activities section of the cash flow statement.

We also securitized a portion of our wireless equipment installment receivables and received $1.3 billion in cash proceeds during the quarter. Free cash flow, excluding the tower proceeds, totaled about $4.2 billion. Capital expenditures were $3.7 billion in the quarter. Although spending was slightly lower in the first quarter, we expect 2015 capital expenditures to be within our stated range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion.

In Wireless, we continue investing to proactively stay ahead of demand. In the first quarter, Wireless CapEx totaled $2.4 billion. As we have previously stated, our capital investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network, primarily by increasing network density.

We are deploying existing AWS spectrum in addition to utilizing small cell technology, in-building solutions and distributed antenna systems. We are also beginning to re-farm our 1900 PCS spectrum from 3G EVDO to 4G LTE in select markets.

Despite what others claim about certain network metrics, we are consistently acknowledged as the overall 4G LTE network performance leader in national studies conducted by widely-recognized third-party organizations. We lead in what matters most to customers, coverage and consistent performance, and continue to be the largest and most reliable 4G LTE network in the nation.

Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals. Our financial deleveraging plan had always assumed the purchase of new spectrum.

In the first quarter, we paid the remaining balance of $9.5 billion for the AWS-3 licenses we won in the auction. During the past six months we have been very active in the debt capital markets managing our maturities and taking advantage of the interest rate environment. We ended the quarter with $113.4 billion of gross debt, net debt of $109 billion, and a ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 2.5 times.

We are on track with the plans to delever and remain committed to returning to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit-rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe. Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 6.

Our Wireless strategy is to provide the best customer experience while continuing to invest in our network to stay ahead of accelerating demand and higher customer usage. Wireless revenue growth, profitability, and cash flows continue to be driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base.

Total Wireless operating revenues were $22.3 billion in the first quarter, up 6.9%. Total service revenue of $17.9 billion declined 0.4%. Keep in mind that lower service revenue from Edge customers have shifted to equipment revenue. Service revenue plus Edge installment billings were up 3.1%.

During the quarter, customer demand for our Edge equipment installment plan continued to increase. The percentage of phone activations on the Edge program was about 39%, compared with about 25% in the fourth quarter. We expect the percentage of phone activations on Edge to increase in the second quarter as we are currently running near 50%.

Edge phone activations totaled $3.4 million in the quarter and we now have an Edge phone base of 10 million, representing 11.7% of our postpaid phone base.

In terms of profitability, we generated $10 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 6.6%. Our EBITDA service margin increased to 55.8%, up 370 basis points year-over-year. As customer acceptance of equipment installment plans evolves and the percentage of Edge adoption increases, equipment revenue is increasing. Therefore, you should look at EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue rather than Wireless service revenue. On this basis, our EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue was 44.8% in the quarter, which was similar to a year ago.

Now let's turn to slide 7 and take a closer look at Wireless connections growth.

We ended the quarter with 108.6 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 5.5% to 102.6 million and our prepaid connections totaled 5.9 million. As expected, first-quarter seasonality resulted in lower volumes.

Postpaid gross additions were 3.7 million, up 2.3% compared to a year ago. A majority of the gross adds were 4G smartphones and tablets. Retail postpaid churn improved both sequentially and year-over-year, coming in at 1.03% for the quarter.

We are maintaining a disciplined approach with a focus on retaining high-value customers. We are seeing good results with our postpaid smartphone churn, less than 0.9% as compared to our basic phone churn at more than 1.2% in the quarter.

Our retail postpaid net additions of 565,000 were up 4.8%. The quality of the net adds was very good. We added 621,000 new 4G smartphones and total net smartphone adds were 247,000 in the quarter. We also added 820,000 new 4G tablets.

Postpaid phone net adds were a negative 138,000 as the smartphone adds were more than offset by a net decline of 385,000 basic phones. Additionally, net prepaid devices declined by 188,000 in the quarter.

Let's now take a look at 4G device activations and upgrades on slide 8.

Total postpaid device activations totaled 10.3 million in the quarter, up 4.4%. About 84% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablets. We ended the quarter with 68.7 million smartphones in total, about 85% of which were 4G. Our smartphone penetration increased to approximately 80% of total phones.

4G devices now comprise approximately 70% of our retail postpaid connections base. About 86% of total data traffic is on the 4G LTE network. As you would expect, growth in 4G device adoption continues to drive increased data and video usage.

Within More Everything amounts, average data usage continues to rise, up 54% year-over-year. This is beneficial to us because increasing consumption of content will ultimately drive higher revenue with a lower cost to serve due to the efficiency of our LTE network.

In terms of our upgrade rate, about 6.5% of our retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the first quarter. This represents a sharp sequential decline in the percentage of customers upgrading, which was expected due to seasonality and the extraordinary volumes we experienced in the fourth quarter.

We continue to have an opportunity to upgrade our basic phone and 3G smartphone customers to 4G devices. At the end of the quarter we had roughly 17 million basic phones and about 11 million 3G smartphones remaining in our postpaid connections base.

We also have a profitable growth opportunity with tablets. We ended the quarter with about 8.8 million tablets in our postpaid connections base, so overall penetration is still under 10%. Tablets provide us a good value through increased data consumption and lower churn at the account level.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 9.

In the consumer business we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS. In the first quarter, consumer revenues were up 4%, representing the 11th consecutive quarter of 4% or better growth. Mass markets, which include small business, grew 2.9%.

FiOS now represents 78% of consumer revenue. In the first quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 9.8%, driven by customer growth, increased penetration of our Quantum products, and some pricing actions. Our FiOS Quantum broadband service is scaling well and has a higher profitability contribution.

At the end of the quarter, 62% of our consumer FiOS Internet customers subscribed to data speeds of 50 megabits per second or higher. We are seeing the highest rate of growth in the 75 megabits speed tier, where just over 20% of our consumer FiOS customers currently subscribe.

We had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth. In broadband, we added 133,000 net FiOS customers and now have a total of 6.7 million FiOS Internet subscribers, which is 41.5% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers increased by 41,000 in the quarter.

In FiOS Video, we added 90,000 net customers in the quarter and now have a total of 5.7 million FiOS Video subscribers, which represents 36% penetration. One of the ways we strive to improve the customer value proposition is by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform. Last year we introduced Quantum TV, SpeedMatch, and our Quantum Gateway router.

As part of the evolution of customer choice for video consumption, we just introduced FiOS Custom TV just in the last few days. The Custom TV option is a creative approach to the changing landscape, allowing customers to better choose the type of content they want to watch. Customers will get a base package of preselected and local broadcast channels and choose at least two channel packs out of seven. This new option, coupled with our traditional programming packages provides more choice, more control, and more value in an easy self-serve manner.

In terms of our ongoing network evolution initiative, we converted about 47,000 copper customers in the quarter. For the year, we plan to convert a total of 200,000 copper customers to fiber. We are also in the process of decommissioning 10 central offices.

Post-conversion we are seeing improvements in customer satisfaction and a lower cost to serve. These conversions also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services from us. Our focus in 2015 will be to continue adding quality customers, driving higher penetration in existing markets, and generating profitable growth. Residential broadband and video are highly competitive markets and we will be disciplined and rational in our approach to customer acquisition.

With that, let's turn to slide 10 and cover Enterprise and Wholesale as well as the Wireline segment in total.

In the Enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the first quarter, global Enterprise revenue declined 6%. Excluding foreign exchange pressure, the revenue decline would have been more in line with trends we experienced in the second half of 2014.

The overall story is unchanged as declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications, which are smaller in scale. Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by competitive price compression, which is offsetting growth in applications and services.

In our global wholesale business, revenues declined 3.7% in the first quarter. Healthy demand for Ethernet services continues, but revenue declines from price compression, technology migration, and other secular challenges more than offset this growth. We also had a favorable contract settlement, which improved revenue this quarter and which will not recur.

Total operating revenues for the entire Wireline segment were down 2%, which included the FX pressure.

In terms of profitability, the EBITDA margin was 22.7% in the quarter, up 20 basis points. Our path to a stronger and more profitable Wireline business includes driving further FiOS penetration and continued improvements in operating and capital efficiency.

On the enterprise business side, we are changing the revenue mix to higher growth areas like cloud, security, and professional services. In terms of our cost structure, we are realizing a number of noteworthy process improvements and efficiency gains utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles. However, we are far from satisfied and will continue working to improve our overall cost structure.

Let's move next to our summary slide. We're off to a strong start to 2015. From a strategic standpoint, we were successful in the spectrum auction, executed a tower portfolio monetization, and signed a definitive agreement to sell certain Wireline properties. At the same time, we returned value to shareholders with an accelerated share repurchase program. We also delivered strong operating and financial performance, with 12% growth in earnings per share on an adjusted basis.

Our first-quarter results demonstrate that we are in a strong market position with a proven ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy. Our high-quality customer base and superior networks are the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage. We are on track to achieve our targets of at least 4% consolidated revenue growth, sustained profitability, and capital spending in a range of $17.5 billion to $18 billion in 2015.

Consolidated EBITDA grew by 5.8% and our EBITDA margin expanded to 37.4%. In addition to our ability to deliver strong financial metrics, we are very focused on developing new products and services in the Internet of Things and video. We are excited about the potential for revenues from these new products and services to grow quickly and become more meaningful in the future. Our deleveraging plans are on track and we remain committed to getting back to our pre-Vodafone transaction credit rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. David, we're now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning, Fran. You had a couple of management changes in the first quarter; John Stratton taking over as president of operations and combining the IT and network units. Can you give us a little bit of color of any sort of implications of any strategies or anything that has happened as a result of that? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Simon. As we have moved into our next phase, as Lowell has consolidated the operational performance under John, this gives us a better breadth of consolidation, if you will, post the Vodafone acquisition. And if you go back to when we did the acquisition, we stated that there were some internal walls that could be broken down and we could become more efficient.

With the establishment of Marni Walden's organization around new products and services, this is where we get into the Internet of Things and over-the-top video. She runs Verizon Digital Media Services and some of the other incubation companies that we have. So the focus is running the day-to-day operations out of John's organization and streamlining, implementing Verizon Lean Six Sigma and driving those cost benefits and efficiencies that we are looking for.

With Marni's organization, it's creating the new products and services that we can launch to grow the future of the business. And then with Roger and the consolidation of the network and the IT organization, it just makes sense as we move into more software-developed network areas and more of the network is driven out of data centers, it makes sense that Roger would take over the entire thing from an efficiency and consistency of management perspective.

So I think what you're seeing here is more well-organized within the Company, more cohesiveness, and more direct relationship between growing revenue and cost reduction.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, great. So no real changes in the cost trajectory or the CapEx trajectory?

FRAN SHAMMO: CapEx we have given you guidance of $17.5 billion to $18 billion and right now we're staying on track with that. You should see that ramp through the rest of the year, and obviously coming out of the auction we added $500 million to that to densify and buildout, and that takes a little bit of queuing up time. So you will see that more in the back end of the year.

As far as cost reductions, you've seen some of the measures we took at the end of the fourth quarter. If you look at Wireline alone, Wireline is down over 5,400 people from beginning of last year, so continuing to streamline that business and become more efficient. And for Wireless, as John has taken over, we're starting to see some streamlining around customer service and some of the other things that we've talked about in the past. So I wouldn't downplay the cost reductions that we will realize in the future here.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the question. Maybe just two, if I could.

Fran, on the quarter I think the two numbers that really stood out to people were, number one, the really low SG&A in Wireless. I think going back to our model, maybe the lowest percentage of Wireless revenue we've ever seen. If you could kind of step us through how we got there from last quarter and what the outlook for that would be, it would be huge.

Then the second big number was really the ARPA number, which I think stepped down further than people thought. That could have been related to EIP or it could have been the pricing environment in the market or retention efforts that you're executing on. Could you kind of give us a picture for how we got to where we got in ARPA and how we can think about that for the rest of the year? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Just a clarification, on the Wireless revenue you're talking about service revenue?

DAVID BARDEN: I was actually talking about total revenue as a percentage of SG&A, but either way it was a really low number.

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I think that if you look at service revenue and ARPA it all goes to the same issue, which is as we start to elevate Edge and we start to increase the take rate of Edge and customers move, you are shifting revenue out of service and into equipment. So you are going to continue to see a decline in service revenue. You're going to continue to see a decline in ARPA.

But I think what I would center around is what we said in the script, which was we grew overall revenue by 6.9%. And also if you look at the EBITDA margin, which kind of normalizes out the Edge impact -- not 100% of it, but if you look at $1 of revenue and $1 of cost, they are zero margin. So if you look at total revenue, 44.8% versus last year at 44.9%, so it's a very consistent profitability measure.

The other thing, too, is if you look at the Edge benefits, you are getting benefits from both lower commissions and so forth, so that is also impacting the SG&A line. Because your indirects -- before if you think about how that worked, we were refunding the indirect through a commission payment for the subsidy of the handset. That all goes away so you are going to see a decline in the commission expense line, which is impacting the SG&A line.

But, overall, if you look at the profitability of Wireless -- and I think this is important. If you look at the service margin of 55.8%, if you were to normalize out Edge, the Wireless service margin would still have been over 50%. So the profitability of Wireless continues to be extremely strong and, again, I would go back to what Simon brought up: I would not discount all of the cost reductions and efficiencies that we are creating in the environment.

DAVID BARDEN: So this is a good baseline for extrapolating the rest of the year?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, from a rest-of-the-year standpoint, I think that the outlook is strong. I think that obviously as Edge continues to escalate you are going to get some benefit there. We highlighted the depreciation benefit.

But I think as far as Wireless goes, I think we need to be careful here a little bit because January normally is a slow promotional, slow seasonal quarter. As you go into the second quarter and you enter into Mother's Day and Father's Day, I would expect that the promotional activity and competitiveness is going to heat up here. So that will offset some of the benefits that you are going to see.

Look, I think that service revenue and ARPA will continue to decline as the Edge rate takes up, but it's really about overall revenue growth and the profitability of the business. And we feel good about that.

DAVID BARDEN: Perfect. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. I guess, first, if I can follow up; Fran, on the Edge stuff, can you help us with the high end of the Edge mix, given the distribution of where you sell this? What portion of your sales are in channels that don't have access to the Edge program?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, all of our channels have access to the Edge program, but obviously within our store channel it is very, very heavily weighted towards Edge at this point. We are doing very little subsidy model selling out of the store channel, and it's because of where the market has moved.

When your entire competitive environment is just advertising and promoting service pricing and ignoring the whole equipment side, we have to follow that in order to be competitive. So the store channel, by far, is very heavily weighted towards Edge.

Indirect is starting to come up as time goes, but also keep in mind the business channel and our enterprise channel are not really taking the Edge products. So if you're asking me we will get to 100%, the answer is no. I can't tell you exactly what that percent will be, but we do see that second quarter we will probably be in the neighborhood of a 50% take rate.

PHIL CUSICK: Second, I like the Custom TV launch this morning. There is some controversy around ESPN and Disney. Can I ask do you guys have explicit permission for this and have Disney and others pushed back since Friday to you or is this just a storm in the media? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think the right way to answer this without getting too public about our contractual situations, look, this is a product that the consumer wants. It's all about consumer choice.

If you look at the TV bundles today, most people only on average watch 17 channels, so this is a way to give consumers what they want on a choice basis. And we believe that we are allowed to offer these packages under our existing contracts, so we will leave it at that.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citigroup.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, just a couple follow-ups and a question. The follow-ups are, first, can you just give us the ending net receivable balance for the installment phones and what that was last quarter? And then are you allowing for installment plans early migration? Is that something you are using to get the take rate of Edge up?

And then just a broader question I had, if I could. Could you just address the larger strategy for Wireline? You went through a quarter of monetizing some additional -- or announcing the monetization of some additional assets. What are your thoughts longer-term for your Wireline business? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So on the accounts receivable I'm not going to get too much detail here on this call, but if you look at the fourth quarter to the first quarter, with the securitization that we did it's relatively flat.

On early migration on Edge customers, obviously we have an Edge Up feature, but you must pay 75% of the phone off. So if you decide to pay 75% of your balance off, you can upgrade at any point in time you want, and we do have customers who are taking that and Edging Up. But there is no, quote, early migration other than what's instituted in the price plan.

On the Wireline strategy, look, if you looked at the three properties that we announced to sell -- Florida, Texas, and California -- they were more or less islands to us. They were some of the first properties we built out with FiOS. They are heavily-penetrated properties, but the majority of those properties are still copper. And as we looked at that strategically, when we laid this out it just made sense, based on the offer that Frontier had in front of us, to actually sell those properties.

So I wouldn't read too much into it other than the fact that they were not strategic properties because they were islands. But if you look at the rest of our Wireline footprint, from DC all the way up through Boston, it's very contiguous. It's highly populated.

We have almost 20 million homes passed now with FiOS, so it's extremely viable for us to continue to penetrate these properties. And if you look at the penetration rates, New York is still the lowest-penetrated market that we have and still has the highest growth opportunity that we have.

So we're holding on to some of the markets that we believe are contiguous. You will see more and more with Wireless and Wireline combined under John's leadership. So there's more that we can do strategically with the footprint that we have. Again, it just made financial sense to return that back to our shareholder and bring that cash into delever the balance sheet.

So that's really all there is to it, Michael.

MIKE ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking the question. The smartphone metrics continue to be really impressive, but as you note in the presentation, about 20% of your sub still have feature phones. So I was wondering if you could just walk us through what is the strategy for upgrading and retaining those subs? Particularly because it seems that your competitors are continually targeting that base.

And should it be reasonable to think that at this point in the upgrade process we might continue to see some modest degree of net losses in the phone base? Or is what we saw in the first quarter just a seasonal factor?

FRAN SHAMMO: I guess a couple things here. So we still have 17 million basic and 11 million 3G phones. Coming out of the fourth quarter you heard me say that we were going to protect our base, and that was a key ingredient going into the first quarter.

I think with the churn rate you have seen, if you look at the basic phone losses on a year-over-year basis, we actually improved that by over 400,000. So last year we had almost double the number of basic phone loss customers than we did this year. And as you noticed, we came out with some strong promotional pricing that was targeted towards the basic phone customer and the 3G customer.

Now having said all that, look, the environment is that there -- if you look at prepaid just on a standalone basis, our prepaid retail pricing is slightly at a premium to some of the other competitors' postpaid pricing. So we are in a competitive pricing standpoint and, as I said coming out of the fourth quarter, we will not -- we have to be rational and we will not chase every customer. But we are making every effort to maintain our base and keep our customers and upgrade them into a price plan that's fitting for them. We made improvement in that, but I will tell you we still have some more improvement to do.

But we are not satisfied with any losses, but then again, we will not chase every add either based on just cheap price. So I think that's the balanced equation that we showed in the first quarter.

BRETT FELDMAN: And just a quick follow-up. I believe in the past you've said some of the small losses you've seen have generally been customers that were not as profitable. Is that still the case?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think what I said was if it's -- not quite, I wouldn't put it in a profitability perspective, but what I would say is if it's a customer who is just price sensitive and does not care about the quality of the network or is sufficient with just paying a lower price, then that's probably a customer we're not going to be able to keep on the Verizon Wireless network.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks. Fran, maybe if you could just comment regarding subscriber quality, maybe net add quality or base quality, and just thinking about the credit scores within the base or the prime mix. Obviously, we've seen a lot of prepaid migration into postpaid; just what you guys are seeing with respect to that.

As a follow-up, just a comment, if you would, on the appetite for additional factoring; how we should be framing that for the full year. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. So on the securitization piece of the business, yes, you should anticipate that this will be an ongoing program on a quarterly basis going forward.

As far as the quality of our base, I think the quality of our base speaks for itself. We have not made any credit policy changes. We have a very strong quality base, but there are a certain segment of our customers, as I just discussed, around basic where we are trying to bring them up into a price plan that is meaningful for them.

But if you look at the lay of the land around price trends, as I said our prepaid pricing is a little bit of a premium from some other postpaid pricing in the market place. And as you saw this quarter, we lost 188,000 prepaid retail customers. I can't answer specifically where they went, but I would say that they probably made a choice to go to a price -- a postpaid price plan because it's actually slightly lower on some competitors than it is with us on prepaid.

So I can't factually state that, but I think that is some of the migration. But also I would also say that on the reseller side, which we don't talk much about, we had a very strong growth through our TracFone relationship, over 400,000-and-some net adds this quarter. So it could have been a migration from retail to wholesale, but I do think there is a migration from the prepaid base into some other postpaid bases. And I think others will have to talk to that, but we're not seeing a lot of that within our base.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just how you frame the credit risk on these installment plans? I am assuming you guys obviously have pretty tight credit standards, but do you see this as a risk for you guys and the industry just having more and more loans out there for Apple phones?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, obviously it adds risks to the balance sheet because you're putting up a very large receivable now. Before it was just service revenue that you were at risk for, and if you looked at the economics of service revenue, it really is what's the economic loss to the Company. Really it comes down to what's the actual economic loss of providing the service to the customer. It's not actually the retail service revenue that's the loss.

Obviously, the cost of service is minimal so the loss was a lot less. Now you're actually putting up a receivable that has a dollar-for-dollar loss if the customer does not pay.

Again, we are very comfortable with the credit models we use. As I said, we really haven't changed our credit and we have a very strong credit base. I'm not -- at this point, I don't see any trends that would be concerning me on the outstanding receivable at this point.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, two quick ones. First, following up on the video tiering, Fran. Could you talk a little bit about maybe sort of expected penetration that you expect with these new plans, and maybe compare the profitability of these new services to traditional TV subscriptions?

And then, from an Edge standpoint, you have guided to flat consolidated margins for the year, but as you see the higher take rate of Edge, and first of all where that could go for the year, could that drive better wireless margin trends and lead to better overall consolidated margins for the Company? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. On the video tiers, look, I think it's way, way too early to start talking about what the take rate is or the profitability, so we will leave that until we get some trending behind us. Obviously we have done this because of consumer benefit, give the consumer a better choice. So let's see what happens here as we go and then we can address that later.

On the EBITDA margins, look, I'm kind of reiterating our guidance that we came out of the fourth quarter from an outlook perspective, and I think that you have to be cognizant of the fact that this is the first quarter of the year. If you look at last year's trending, as we said, coming out of the Vodafone transaction our earnings profile would be more consistent across the quarters. We wouldn't be as bumpy as we had been in the past.

I think that you have to look at the whole thing in retrospect. And also, the other thing is I would not get focused in on the service margin side and, as I said, I'd really prefer us to look at the total revenue and the EBITDA margin. And if you saw, the EBITDA margin was very, very strong for Wireless this quarter.

And that kind of normalizes out a little bit of what the Edge take rate is. Then again, I also can't speak to what we're in for from a competitive standpoint on additional pricing moves through the year, so I'm kind of reserving on that side of the equation as well from an outlook perspective.

On outlook and profitability I would say, reiterating what we said in the fourth quarter and more consistent earnings profile moving forward. So I think that's where we will leave it.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning, Fran and Mike. You folks highlighted that 4G devices now constitute approximately 70% of the retail postpaid connections and that traffic or LTE network handles about 86% of the total Wireless data traffic for the quarter.

Given these dynamics, what seems to be a rapid adoption of LTE technology, I was wondering if you could give us an update on your ability to re-farm spectrum in order to take advantage of the network efficiency opportunity. Fran, you had mentioned that there are continued cost-reduction opportunities that your scale provides you and any color there would be helpful.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Amir. I think that this is all pointing to where the future growth of the business comes from. There's not many businesses where consumers want to consume more and more. And if you look at it, 86% of the usage is on the LTE network, and if you look at our More Everything accounts, they are up 54% in consumption year-over-year.

So obviously consumers are willing to consume the content on their wireless devices, which is why we were so optimistic around Internet of Things and, of course, over-the-top mobile. Now as you start to look at the densification and the efficiency of the network, as I said in my prepared remarks, we are already starting to re-farm the 1900 PCS licenses in certain markets and we still have a long way to go there.

Also we are looking at, as I said, the LTE unlicensed, which is a really good fit with the licensed LTE piece, which will give us a lot more download capability and a managed network comparability. So there's a lot that we can still do around our spectrum and efficiency. And obviously, with the LTE network, as you have seen, with 86% of that traffic running on it with a 54% overall year-over-year increase, the cost structure of the business really has not changed, because the ability to deliver this on a very cost-efficient network is there.

So I would just continue to say that as we continue to grow on the consumption model, what we did in the AWS spectrum in buying the licenses and our plan to build out and densify, I think we are in a very good financial position to execute on that in a very financially disciplined manner and continue to generate the returns that are expected of us.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great. And then one quick follow-up, if I may. You folks have been consistent noting that deleveraging the balance sheet is a priority for you. As you mentioned, it seems as though the approach you took to the AWS-3 bidding process seems to reflect that strategy.

How should we think about your ability or resources available to pursue other assets in the market? Specifically I'm thinking about the potential broadcast spectrum auction or any material third-party portfolios, if they were to come to market?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, we are very focused on our balance sheet and we are committed to delever. And as we said coming out of the Vodafone transaction, we had four priorities. One was to continue to invest in our networks and platforms, which we are; to buy spectrum, which we did; to have a competitive dividend payout, which we do; and to delever the balance sheet. And we're continuing to do all that.

As far as any type of strategic acquisitions or additional spectrum, we are probably alluding to the incentive auction and I think that we are just going to have to wait and see what the rules are before we decide how we're going to execute on or around the incentive auction. So I think that is still a little bit ways out before we can make that decision.

But, look, we have positioned the balance sheet to be able to execute on the strategies that we need to execute on in order to deliver the future growth and earnings of the business. And I think we're in a very, very sound position to do that.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Great, thank you very much for the color.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Fran, thank you for taking the question. I wanted to ask about the over-the-top video service offering.

I know we're going to see a more formal unveiling this summer, but can you just discuss the news floor, what we should be honing into as you go into that announcement? I assume it's more content announcements.

And then, on the packages you announced last week, should we consider this separate from the OTT or kind of a precursor of this integrated Wireline -- Wireless model?

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, first on over-the-top video. As we have talked before, you see us announcing some of the content deals that are in this, but it goes back to what I said before. This is all around having the consumer consume more content on their wireless handset through the Verizon Wireless network.

And we know that consumers want content. We know what the viewership is, and this is appealing to mobile content. Let's not confuse that with linear TV content. So I would not read into the Custom TV package as a precursor to the over-the-top video, it's not. These are two very distinct ecosystems.

As far as the monetization model, when you think about the monetization, there's many different avenues we can do on this. There could be premium subscriptions. There could be pay-per-views using the multicast technology. There can be advertising models so that the consumer does not pay for the content consumption. Or, as others would call it, sponsored data.

So I think there's a lot of models that we can use, and I hate to say this, but let's wait until Marni and team are ready to make the big splash here this summer. And then we can have more discussion around what it means.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great, thank you very much.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: David, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, guys. Fran, the wireless data growth is fairly incredible at this size and base. Do you think you have pricing power for wireless data? Two of your competitors aren't really charging all that much for it. Do you think that will change in the industry as maybe the networks get filled up? Your thoughts, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: I think this is a great lead way into the over-the-top mobile, and it is developing more ecosystems around monetizing the consumption that happens on the network. Obviously, we are in a period of time where we see this service pricing dilution because of the installment sale, and I think that will continue. And of course, we are increasing bundles, so more data for the same price.

But this is no different, Tim, than what we saw in the voice world way back where we had a price and then all of a sudden everybody started seeing dilution on the per minute price because more minutes were being given away in the bundle. And we saw a little bit of access accretion, but overall pricing was coming down.

Then, all of a sudden, the usage track started up again and revenue took a turn. I think that's the piece that we are in right now with the data world.

But the key to this is to develop these other ecosystems to create more monetization around customer usage, whether that's premium subscription, pay-per-view, or advertising models. And that is really what we are concentrating on.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: David, thank you. Before we end the call I would like to turn it back to Fran for a few closing remarks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Thanks, everybody, for joining Verizon this morning.

We are absolutely off to a good start to the year. We stated coming out of the fourth quarter that we would return to historical margins in Wireless, and we delivered on that. We also stated that we would continue to improve the profitability of our Wireline business, and we delivered on that.

We had a good growth quarter. We had strong profits and strong cash flows. We look forward to a very positive 2015, and we look very hopeful and are confident in our ability to execute on our strategy, grow the business profitably, and invest for the future.

Thanks, everyone, for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150423eb4l000ru
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,002 words
   PD
22 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, David. Good morning and welcome to our fourth-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with Fran Shammo, our Chief Financial Officer.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.

Before Fran goes through our performance results, I would like to cover our earnings reconciliation for the fourth quarter and highlight a few special items. These are displayed on slide 3.

For the fourth quarter, we reported a loss of $0.54 per share on a GAAP basis. This reported result includes several significant nonoperational items that I would like to highlight. The largest item is our year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities.

This year we recorded a pretax expense of $7 billion to increase our pension and OPEB liability. This adjustment, which was primarily non-cash, was caused by changes in the discount rate, the adoption of new mortality tables, and other actuarial assumptions. We also incurred pretax expenses of $502 million related to severance costs under our existing separation plans. On an after-tax basis, these two charges amounted to $4.7 billion, or $1.12 per share.

We also incurred nonoperational expenses of $872 million in connection with early debt redemption and other costs. On an after-tax basis these charges amounted to $528 million, or $0.13 per share.

Details regarding the income statement line item effects for these items are available on our website in the financial and operating information and non-GAAP reconciliation schedules.

Excluding the nonoperational charges of $1.25 per share, adjusted earnings per share was $0.71 in the fourth quarter. This compares with adjusted EPS of $0.66 a year ago, an increase of 7.6%. For the full year, adjusted earnings per share was $3.35 compared with $2.84 in 2013, an increase of 18%.

Keep in mind that the $3.35 adjusted EPS does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless from the beginning of 2014 since the transaction closed on February 21. The results and growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and remarks exclude the effects of the nonoperational items and are, therefore, on an adjusted basis. Also, the growth rates we provide are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

I would like to remind everyone that due to the FCC's rules, we cannot discuss or answer any questions related to the auction or AWS-3 spectrum. When the rules permit, we do plan to provide you with an update on our participation.

With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and Happy New Year. 2014 was a great year of execution and achievement for Verizon from both a strategic and financial perspective.

We delivered strong operating and financial performance and further demonstrated our ability to compete effectively in any environment. Strategically, our most notable accomplishment was completing the transaction for full ownership of Verizon Wireless. We closed the deal in late February, providing immediate earnings accretion and full access to the cash flows of what we believe is the best wireless asset in the world.

Throughout the year, we continued our steady and consistent investment in our networks and platforms, which are critical to driving profitable growth in the future. Our strong cash generation enabled us to invest $17.2 billion of capital and return value to shareholders through dividend payments, which totaled $7.8 billion for the year.

Last September our Board of Directors approved a 3.8% dividend increase, raising the annual amount to $2.20 per share. At the same time, we are investing and innovating for the future through new growth businesses and integrated product development efforts in rapidly-evolving markets like mobile video and the Internet of Things.

The foundation of our continued success is network excellence, which is the hallmark of the Verizon brand. We believe that steady and consistent network and platform investments provide the foundation for innovative products and services which will fuel profitable growth.

The depth and breadth of our networks provide the fundamental strength and basis for our competitive advantage. Our industry is strong and demand is growing, with customers using wireless and broadband even more and in different ways than ever before. Our competitive position is very strong and we are well-positioned from a strategic standpoint to capitalize on these market trends.

In Wireless, we had another exceptional year of quality connections, growth, and profitability. Retail postpaid net adds totaled 5.5 million for the year, with 2 million coming in a highly competitive fourth quarter that featured heavy promotional activity. Postpaid activations, gross additions, upgrades, and net adds all grew by double-digit percentages in 2014.

Total operating revenues grew 8.2% for the year and our EBITDA service margin was 48.5%, even with the short-term pressure of significant device volumes in the fourth quarter.

In Wireline, consumer revenues grew 5% for the year, driven by our FiOS platform. In 2014 we continued to increase penetration in existing markets and ended the year at 41% for Internet and just under 36% for video. Our sharp focus on productivity improvements and operating efficiency resulted in an 80 basis point expansion of our EBITDA margin to 23.2% for the full year.

Now let's get into the fourth-quarter and full-year performance in more detail, starting with our consolidated results on slide 5.

On a reported basis, total operating revenue grew 6.8% in the fourth quarter. For the full year we added $6.5 billion to our top line, representing 5.4% growth, which exceeded our guidance of 4% consolidated revenue growth for 2014. If we exclude the prior-period revenues from the public sector business we sold, the comparable growth rates would have been 7.3% for the fourth quarter and 5.7% for the full year.

Our consolidated revenue growth continued to be driven by Wireless and FiOS. In the fourth quarter, growth was favorably impacted by increased Wireless equipment revenue, due to the significant 4G device activations.

New revenue streams from the Internet of Things and telematics are beginning to emerge. In 2014, these revenues totaled about $585 million, with growth of more than 45%.

There are countless innovative technology solutions being developed in the Internet of Things ecosystem across multiple industries. A great example of this was unveiled last week at the North American International Auto Show where we announced Verizon Vehicle, a powerful new connected-vehicle service. This unique aftermarket solution modernizes traditional roadside assistance, while enhancing driver safety and convenience.

We expect this service to launch commercially in the second quarter. The addressable market is more than 200 million vehicles on the road today that are not connected to the Internet or have a GPS unit. We believe that this large unserved market stands to greatly benefit from this new car wireless connectivity solution.

In addition to top-line growth, we continue to focus on driving process improvements and cost efficiencies through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA totaled $43.3 billion in 2014, an increase of 2.9% and our adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year was 34.1%.

Let's take a look at our cash flow results on slide 6.

As I previously noted, the transaction to acquire full ownership of Verizon Wireless created a lack of comparability between the current and prior periods in our statement of cash flows.

In 2014, cash flows from operations totaled $30.6 billion. In addition to incremental cash, interest, and tax payments, we made $1.5 billion in pension contributions that we did not have to fund in 2013. In spite of these additional cash outlays and higher capital spending, free cash flow totaled $13.4 billion for the year.

Our capital program was consistent with our guidance of around $17 billion for the year with improving capital efficiency. In total, capital expenditures were $4.6 billion in the fourth quarter and $17.2 billion for the full year, up 3.5% from 2013. Our annual CapEx to revenue ratio was 13.5%, an improvement from 13.8% in 2013.

The pace of capital spending in Wireless was very consistent throughout all four quarters of the year. Wireless CapEx was $2.7 billion in the quarter and $10.5 billion for the full year. We continue to invest the necessary capital to proactively stay ahead of demand.

Our investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network, primarily by increasing network density. We are deploying existing AWS spectrum in addition to utilizing small cell technology, in-building solutions, and distributed antenna systems.

As I am sure you have seen from our advertising, we now have deployed AWS, or XLTE as we have branded it, in more than 400 markets, effectively doubling our existing capacity. And despite what others claim about certain aspects of their networks, when you look across the entire nation and consider all the relevant performance metrics, Verizon has the nation's largest and most reliable 4G LTE network. We are consistently acknowledged as the performance leader in national studies conducted by widely recognized third-party organizations.

In Wireline, capital spending totaled $1.6 billion in the quarter and $5.8 billion for the year, down 7.7% from 2013. Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.

We ended the year with $113.3 billion of gross debt and $102.7 million of net debt. We significantly improved the maturity profile of our debt portfolio during 2014 through various debt market transactions. The ratio of net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.4 times. We remain committed to getting back to our pre-transaction credit rating profile in the 2018 to 2019 timeframe.

Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 7.

Our Wireless strategy is built on making consistent network investments and providing a compelling value proposition to our customers. Our investment strategy is focused on adding network capacity ahead of accelerating demand, which is driven by increasing 4G device adoption and higher customer usage. Wireless revenue growth, profitability, and cash flows continue to be driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base.

In 2014 we strengthened the overall quality of our customer accounts. We added 24.7 million 4G devices into our postpaid connections base, representing annual growth of about 58%. In addition, we increased the number of More Everything shared data plans to 61% of total accounts. The average connections per account grew 4% and ARPA plus Edge installment billings increased by more than 5% in 2014.

As I stated coming out of the third quarter, we expected and closed the year with a very high volume quarter. Total postpaid device activations in the fourth quarter were unprecedented, totaling 15.3 million, up nearly 34% over last year. More than 13 million were phones, driven by iconic smartphone launches from both Apple and Samsung.

To give some historical perspective, these phone activations were 1.5 million higher than the fourth quarter of 2012, which at that time was a record high because it was the first time a 4G iPhone or a free 3G iPhone was available on our network. The usage characteristics of these iconic 4G smartphones also generates stronger returns and a higher NPV.

Our fourth-quarter promotions were successful, driving a sequential and year-over-year increase in gross adds, net adds, and upgrades. This customer growth sets us up very well for profitable growth in 2015 and beyond as we drive usage and leverage the efficiencies of our LTE network.

Total Wireless operating revenues were $23.4 billion in the fourth quarter, up 11%. For the full year operating revenues totaled $87.6 billion, representing growth of $6.6 billion, or 8.2%.

Total Service revenues grew 2.8% in the fourth quarter and 5.2% for the full year. Verizon Edge installment billings totaled $443 million in the quarter and $976 million for the full year. Service revenues plus Edge installment billings grew 5.2% in the fourth quarter and 6.6% for the full year.

As we expected, the percentage of phone activations on the Edge program increased to about 25% in the fourth quarter. We ended the year with slightly more than 7 million phones on Edge, which is just over 8% of our postpaid phone base.

In terms of profitability, we generated $7.7 billion of EBITDA in the quarter and $35.2 billion for the full year, an increase of more than $1 billion, or 3%. Our EBITDA service margin for the fourth quarter was 42%, due to the significant device volumes. For the full year, the EBITDA service margin was 48.5%, compared with 49.5% in 2013. The full-year EBITDA margin on total Wireless revenue was 40.2% compared with 42.2% for 2013.

Now let's turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account, beginning on slide 8.

Retail postpaid service revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 1% in the fourth quarter and 3.9% for the full year. If you add the Edge installment billings to ARPA, the growth rates increased to 3.5% for the quarter and 5.3% for the full year.

We ended the year with 35.6 million postpaid accounts, an increase of 1.5%. The number of postpaid connections per account grew to 2.87, up 4% from a year ago.

As I said, the number of customers accounts on More Everything shared data plans increased from 46% to 61% of total. As you would expect, the average number of connections in More Everything plans are higher at 3.06 per account and grew faster, up more than 7%. And the average data usage in these accounts has increased by about 50% in the past year.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 9.

We ended the year with 108.2 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base grew 5.5% to 102.1 million and our prepaid connections totaled 6.1 million.

As we said, 2014 was a year of historical connections growth. Postpaid gross additions were 5.4 million in the quarter, up 25.5%. For the year, postpaid gross adds totaled 17.8 million, up 18% from 2013 and 20% higher than 2012.

In terms of the gross add mix in the quarter, 55% were smartphones and about 37% were Internet devices, primarily tablets. About 6% were basic phones. This percentage mix is also representative of the full year.

As we said in our updates, we did experience an elevated rate of retail postpaid churn in the fourth quarter at 1.14%. Throughout the year, we maintained a disciplined approach to customer acquisition and retention, with a focus on attracting and retaining high-quality customers. Within the heightened amount of phone activity in the fourth quarter, we are pleased with the overall improvement in the quality of our phone base.

Our retail postpaid net additions of 2 million in the fourth quarter were up 26% year-over-year and 31% sequentially. Our 5.5 million postpaid net additions for the year compare favorably with the 4.1 million in 2013 and 5 million in 2012.

As far as the postpaid net add mix, the fourth quarter included 1.5 million new 4G smartphones and 1.4 million 4G tablets. Postpaid phone net adds totaled 672,000 as the 1.5 million 4G smartphones were offset in part by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.

Full-year net adds of 5.5 million included 4.6 million 4G smartphones and 4.3 million 4G tablets. The offset to these additions were net declines in basic phones, 3G smartphones, and non-tablet Internet devices.

Let's now turn to slide 10 and take a look at device activations and our success in driving 4G adoption and usage.

Total postpaid device activations totaled 15.3 million in the quarter, up nearly 34%. For the full year, postpaid activations totaled 48.1 million, up 16% from 2013. About 85% of these activations were phones and the rest were mainly tablets.

4G LTE devices now comprise 66% of our retail postpaid connections base. This strong device adoption continues to drive increased usage.

We ended the year with 67.7 million smartphones in total, about 80% of which were 4G. Smartphone penetration increased to 79% of total phones.

About 75% of our phone activations in the quarter were customer upgrades. In total, about 9.8% of our Retail postpaid base upgraded to a new device in the fourth quarter. As you would expect, a vast majority of these upgrades were 4G smartphones.

Most of our smartphone upgrades represent an incremental revenue opportunity for us. 1.2 million were upgrades from basic phones. About 46% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G, which we monetized through higher data usage and a lower cost to serve. We also continued to successfully identify and retain a high percentage of what we call high-risk/high-value accounts.

Looking ahead, we still have a sizable quality upgrade opportunity with about 13 million 3G smartphones and 18.5 million basic phones remaining in our postpaid connections base. We are very focused on this opportunity to upgrade customers and protect our high-quality postpaid base.

In addition, we also have a profitable growth opportunity with further penetration of tablets. We ended the year with about 8 million postpaid tablets in our connections base. Tablets have expanded the market for postpaid devices and provide us a good value through increased data consumption and lower churn at the account level.

Data and video usage on our network continues to rise. About 84% of our total data traffic was on the 4G LTE network. We are handling this demand and, by our own measures, the network performance continues to improve.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 11.

In the consumer business, we continue to see positive revenue trends, driven by FiOS. In fact, we have posted 10 consecutive quarters of revenue growth in excess of 4%. In the fourth quarter, consumer revenues grew 4.1% and for the full year were up 5%, exceeding our guidance of at least 4% growth.

Mass markets, which include small business, grew 3% in the quarter and 3.8% for the full year. FiOS now represents 77% of consumer revenue.

In the fourth quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 11.1%, driven by a combination of customer growth, pricing actions, and increased FiOS Quantum penetration. At the end of the year, 59% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribed to the data speeds higher than 50 mega bits per second. This is up from 46% at the end of 2013.

Throughout the year, we continued to improve the customer value proposition, driving better investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform. During 2014 we introduced FiOS Quantum TV. Another differentiated offer was our SpeedMatch service, which increases upload speeds to match their download speeds.

In December we introduced our FiOS Quantum Gateway, our new router that delivers America's fastest Wi-Fi. You will begin to see more marketing of this router and its capability shortly. Looking ahead, our focus will remain on driving higher penetration in existing markets, which in turn will generate profitable growth and further improve our investment returns.

In broadband, we added 145,000 net FiOS customers in the quarter and 544,000 for the year. We have a total of 6.6 million FiOS Internet subscribers, representing 41.1% penetration, which is up 160 basis points for the year. Overall net broadband subscribers increased 59,000 in the quarter and 190,000 for the full year.

In FiOS video, we added 116,000 net customers in the quarter and 387,000 for the year. We have a total of 5.6 million FiOS video subscribers, which represents 35.8% penetration, an increase of 80 basis points in 2014.

In terms of our network evolution initiative, we converted an additional 52,000 copper customers in the quarter, bringing our year-to-date total to around 255,000. In total we have converted more than 800,000 customers to fiber since we started this initiative in 2011.

Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services, which result in additional recurring revenue. In 2015, we plan to convert another 200,000 copper customers to fiber. During 2014, we also continued our consolidation efforts around central offices, which will create additional efficiencies.

We have a strong commitment to customer service and have implemented several new frontline tools that are improving efficiency and increasing customer satisfaction. While we benchmark well against the competition, we have more work to do in 2015 to take our performance to the next level.

Let's turn to slide 12 and cover Enterprise and the Wholesale business. In the Enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the fourth quarter, Global Enterprise revenue declined 4.6%, which included about $30 million of pressure from FX. For the full year, revenue of $13.7 billion was down 3.5%.

The overall story is unchanged as declines in legacy transport revenue and CPE continued to outweigh growth in the newer and more strategic applications, which are smaller in scale.

Strategic services grew 1.5% in the quarter and 2.3% for the year. This category includes both the IP layer and applications such as data center, cloud, security, and managed and professional services. Revenue from services in the IP layer has been impacted by competitive price compression, which is offsetting growth in application services.

In our Global Wholesale business, revenues declined 5.8% in the quarter and 5.6% for the full year. On the positive side, healthy demand for Ethernet services continues, but revenue declines from price compression, technology migration, and other secular challenges more than offset this growth. Total operating revenues for the Wireline segment were down 1.6% in the quarter and 0.5% for the full year.

In terms of profitability, EBITDA increased 4.3% in the quarter and 3% for the full year. The EBITDA margin was 23.9% in the quarter and 23.2% for the year, up 80 basis points from 2013.

While we are making steady progress in the Wireline business and achieved our goal of expanding margins, we are far from satisfied. There is more work to do to drive sustainable improvements in both revenue growth and profitability. Our path to improve profitable growth includes driving further FiOS penetration and improving operating and capital efficiency.

In the Enterprise and Wholesale business we are changing our revenue mix toward newer growth services like cloud, security and professional services.

On the cost side of the equation, we have realized many noteworthy process improvements and efficiency gains utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles. We are confident that this continued focus will improve our overall cost structure, ultimately resulting in a much stronger Wireline business.

Let's move next to our summary slide.

Our operating and financial performance in 2014 demonstrated once again that we are in a strong market position with a proven ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy. Our high-quality customer base and superior networks are the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage.

2014 was a remarkable year from a financial viewpoint. We delivered 18% growth in adjusted earnings per share, with very strong cash flows. We executed a strategically important $130 billion transaction through a combination of debt and equity.

Our strong cash generation allowed us to invest $17.2 billion in capital, pay $7.8 billion in dividends, make incremental cash interest and tax payments, and redeem higher coupon notes in the course of restructuring our debt maturity schedule. In addition, we declared a 3.8% dividend increase and improved our cash position since the closing of the Vodafone transaction.

Our customer growth in the fourth quarter, particularly in Wireless, gives us a great confidence heading into 2015. In terms of our 2015 outlook, it is difficult to predict the competitive intensity of others, particularly in Wireless. However, we have faced highly competitive wireless environments before and have always been able to successfully and profitably grow the business because our customers understand the value of our services.

In this environment we will continue to protect our base by focusing on net adds and upgrades that make financial sense for our business. We will also continue to focus on growing in the right customer segments while at the same time creating new revenue streams for the future.

Over a sustained period of time, our industry is governed by a free cash flow dynamic. To be successful, companies need to generate free cash flow which can be invested in their networks to attract and retain customers by providing a quality experience.

In that context, we are targeting the following for 2015: consolidated revenue growth of at least 4%; sustained profitability with a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin at a level consistent with our full-year 2014 performance; strong free cash flow generation with consolidated capital spending of between $17.5 billion and $18 billion; and a minimum pension funding requirement of approximately $700 million.

In terms of income taxes, we realized a cash benefit in 2014 due to the extension of bonus depreciation which will also have a carryover benefit in 2015. However, with a full year of 100% Wireless net income, we expect total cash income taxes to increase in 2015. We also expect our effective tax rate for book purposes to be in the area of 34% to 36%.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. David, we are now ready to take the first question.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Fran, I guess to start -- speaking of free cash flow needs in the wireless industry, can you help us range your 2015 free cash flow given the commentary on higher cash taxes, pension expense, EIP, and CapEx?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. Not going to get into specific guidance on free cash flow, but you can see what we generated this year. I have guided you to a consistent EBITDA margin on a growth rate of a revenue of at least 4%, and I want to stress that at least 4%.

The other thing is I think that cash taxes at this point, given where we are, if we don't get bonus extension from 2015 into 2016 then obviously that puts more pressure in 2016 on cash taxes as well. So I'm not going to get into specific guidance on that metric, but I think I have given enough to put us in the ballpark.

PHIL CUSICK: Maybe I can try again. Given the revenue growth, can you talk about your assumptions on the Edge mix in 2015? So how much of that revenue growth should we think about as coming from equipment revenue that is more recognized than cash? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so I think on the revenue growth side of at least 4%. If you think about that metric, what we are planning for right now is that our Edge take rate probably increases to around the 34%, 35% take rate. So some of that will be equipment revenue.

But I think what you have to focus in on is if you look at the service revenue component, you look at the recurring revenue of FiOS, so if you look at the recurring revenues of this business, 4%-plus is an achievable metric, but obviously equipment revenue will play a factor in that. But keep in mind, as we start to go out into the future on the installment sales, the installment sales will really neutralize themselves over a two-year period of time, if you think of it that way.

So as we collect more on installment sales we are putting more on, but the cash flow is starting to catch up with it. So I would keep that all in mind.

The other thing, too, is from a cash flow perspective we are looking at alternatives around the receivable as this grows. So you could see us do things around securitization in the future; not that we are announcing anything today, but that is a possibility that we are looking at as we continue to grow that mix on the Edge program.

PHIL CUSICK: That helps. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. Thanks very much. Good morning. Fran, you talked in your summary comments about your focus on nonstrategic asset sales. There's been a lot of talk for -- about towers for a while. We haven't seen anything yet.

Can you just talk about towers and then access lines, data centers, enterprise; how you are thinking about some other -- some of these assets and what we should expect going forward? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I think we've talked about a lot of this in the past, but at this point we are aware of all the rumors in the marketplace. Naturally we don't have any comment on any specific rumors, but we have consistently said that we are always looking at all kinds of strategic transactions.

And if they are the right transactions and provide value to our shareholders, we will execute on those transactions. And at that time we will come back to you and announce our strategy around that. But beyond that, there's really nothing else to say on this subject.

SIMON FLANNERY: So just to say, you expect to make some transactions this year or is it just dependent on the terms?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think what I would say is we continue to look at all strategic availability, and if something makes sense, then we will execute on that strategic initiative.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Fran, just on your comments about free cash flow kind of governing the competitive intensity in this space, could you talk about the assumptions that you are making for your 2015 expectations?

Are you assuming that competition continues at its current course and speed? Does it level out at current levels? Or are you assuming that maybe it even reverses course? It would be helpful to get a sense as to the backdrop that you are making assumptions on.

Then second, just while it is in the headlines, could you opine a little bit on what you think the import of Google doing an MVNO in this space is? Did you have a chance to talk to them about what their plans are as they were going in the market looking to try to execute on something? That would be helpful to get some color on that.

Great, thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I think it's important just to set the stage here. All the hype around 2014 around price competition and the intensity of the competition and just look at what Verizon delivered during all that period of time.

We had top-line growth of 5.7%. We expanded the EBITDA by $1 billion in Wireless. We expanded the EBITDA in Wireline of $200 million. We had net phone adds, which seems to the big issue, of 1.3 million in this competitive environment and we grew our overall net adds year-over-year by 24%.

So I think the basic point here is that we will continue to compete and we will continue to compete at a positive, profitable value. Also, it is important as we enter into 2015 with the competition we are also doing a lot of different things.

So number one, based on our base, as I said in my comments, we still have 13 million 3G smartphones and 18.5 million basic phones that we will pursue to upgrade into our 4G LTE network that is more efficient, generates more revenue. Tablets are only 8% of our base and, as I said in the past, tablets will continue to be a very large piece of our growth into the future.

Tablets are very, very good because, one, they make it more sticky at the account level. Two, we get a recurring revenue stream, albeit lower than a smartphone, but the subsidy on that is much reduced. And then also it also increases the amount of usage and video uptake on the network, which is what we are driving to as the more usage to benefit on the bundles.

The other thing is, as you look out to us and directions we are taking, obviously as we stated, Internet of Things is going to be a very important category. $585 million, up 45% year-over-year. And we don't really disclose it, but we have over 15 million connections now with Internet of Things.

We announced the Verizon Vehicle, as I said. You should look at us as launching over-the-top mobile-first sometime this summer, as Lowell has talked about in the past.

And on the Wireline side, we just launched a new router which we think is going to improve both the intake of video into the home, but it's also very important because it has to sustain the ability of wireless products within that home. And as you know, when you get four to five devices running on that router today that can only deliver up to 75 megabits, you are really not getting 75 megabits. So this router will be able to produce significant higher throughput and we believe it's the fastest in the industry today.

Putting that all in context from a competitive standpoint and what we can deliver, the guidance we are giving you is based on all the strategic actions that we will be taking in the future. The other two things I would talk about is, if you look at our prepaid base, again another positive quarter, up 7.5% on ARPU growth. And then, of course, our own reseller base with our own strategic initiatives with that, whether you call it a reseller base or MVNO, is all positive and growing positively.

So that leads me into the Google discussion. I guess what I would say right off the bat, number one, is this is just another very prime example of the intensity and the competition around this industry, the availability of the open networks and access to the networks. And this is why -- another reason of why this industry does not need to be regulated.

I would also say on this one is, if you look at Google, they have entered the fiber. They've done other initiatives. Their whole purpose is to increase speeds so that people can do more search.

What I would say is we will have to wait to see how they execute on the MVNO, but listen, MVNOs or resellers or people leasing the network from carriers has been around for 15 years. It's a complex issue. You have to deal directly with the consumer; there is a whole infrastructure that is needed to do that.

So I think this is another example of where Google is going to enter the market under a platform basis to do what they want to do and it's just another competitor as we look at it. So I will leave it at that.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks a lot, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. As you look at the results of the Wireless quarter, churn and the upgrade rate really sort of stand out as having spiked. Obviously, there's a couple of drivers there: I think the competition and the number of iPhones you guys had renewing this quarter.

So is there a way, Fran, to sort of delineate the two? As you look out to 2015, are these -- do you expect these numbers to remain elevated because of competition, or should we expect them to both trend back towards a more normalized level? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. So I think this is we need to look at. As we said in the remarks, and follow the words carefully, is that we will pursue our base, we will pursue net adds, and we will pursue upgrades that are financially beneficial to the Company.

So what that means is at a 1.14% churn rate, you should take that as we did not go to places where we did not financially want to go to save a customer. And there's going to be certain customers who leave us for price and we are just not going to compete with that because it doesn't make financial sense for us to do that.

As far as why upgrades were so high, I think you have to go back a little bit and reflect on what we did in the past. So if you look at 2013, we made a lot of policy changes around upgrades. It pushed the upgrade view back into 2014, so in 2014 we took probably more upgrades than we generally would have taken because of those policy changes.

But as we came out of the third quarter, I said that we had about 3.2 million iPhones in our base that were coming out of contract, and that was a signal that we were going to aggressively go after those 3.2 million customers. And we did. We are very satisfied with the quality of the upgrades.

So if you look at it from that perspective in the remarks I made, look at it on a percentage basis, 78% of our upgrades are what we would call strategic quality upgrades. And that means a 3G to 4G, a basic to 4G, or our high-value type customer who delivers a lot of value to us and we appreciate their business and we want to keep them as a customer.

So that's how you should view this, John. And I think that with the competition and some of the pricing that's out there, you should think that we are going to have a higher churn rate because some customers we are just not going to financially keep.

OPERATOR: Mike Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Just two.

First, if you look at the margin guidance that you are providing on a consolidated level and the aspirations to improve the Wireline margins, does that mean that Wireless margins are facing some headwinds just as you are processing the higher volume environment coming off the fourth quarter and some of your initiatives that you're planning for 2015?

Then secondly, Fran, if you can give us an update on your video strategy. Are there any more details or perspectives you could share with us on what that product might look like later in the year when you talked about launching it? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Michael. So on the competitive consolidated margin, look, I think it's important again that you focus on the words.

We said at least top line 4% growth. We said that we would have at least a consolidated margin consistent with 2014. But I think you need to put it in perspective that we had an extremely heavy fourth quarter in 2014, so I would not expect that to repeat in 2015 given the iconic devices that hit and given the level of competition at this point in time versus what we would expect next year.

I think the other important thing, too, is as you are focusing in on this, I think it's important to focus on 2014 earnings per share. So we grew at 18%. I know most of you will subtract out the 10% for the accretion of Vodafone, so when you look at it, the core business in this highly competitive environment grew at 8%.

I would also say that don't get ahead of yourselves on the Wireline accretion of margin. As Lowell and I said before, this will be a slow progression of Wireline accretion. We grew 80 basis points this year. We will continue to focus in on top-line growth and continue to take out those costs, continue our copper to fiber migration efforts, and continue to become more efficient of a company.

So I wouldn't read too much into we expect Wireline to jump off the charts and Wireless to go down.

On the over-the-top strategy, I guess I'm not going to disclose as to too much what we are going to do, but I think if you look at the environment there's a lot of positive things coming out of the environment. So if you look at what Dish has done around some of their recent launches, look at CBS and their own launch of over-the-top with their own programming, this just leads us to a path of content owners are willing to open up their content to different models. And that is exactly what we're going to execute on.

We are working with many content providers to join that model and we will have a lot more to say about that. And Marni and obviously Lowell will talk more about that when we launch our first product come this summer.

MIKE ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. I'm going to follow up a little bit on what Mike said and, Fran, your response.

Typically when we see telecom operators start ramping content-driven models, there is a big upfront investment, particularly in content costs. So I was just wondering if you could maybe just help us think are we going to begin to see any of that spending flow through your P&L this year. And is that a component of how you thought about your margin guidance that you provided? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Number one, under the traditional model of FiOS, obviously in our guidance we've included an increase in content cost because every year you have a content cost and you should feature in around -- consistent with where we were in 2014, around a 3% to 4% content increase cost right now is what we are projecting.

As far as the new model, again I'm not going to get a lot into that model. You should not think about it as a traditional linear TV model. It's going to be, I would think, a different type of the model. So we will wait till mid-summer and we can talk more about that, but within our plan we do have those content costs.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. I guess, Fran, following on, and it's I guess somewhat related to the Wireless margin story in 2015, but just trying to get a sense for what your thoughts are on ARPA sort of puts and takes. Obviously you are talking about some potential I guess save retention tools on your base; the competitive landscape. Do we still think you can get some modest growth on ARPA in 2015?

Then, secondly, the CapEx level I think is a bit above what prior commentary had been. Not dramatically, but I'm trying to get a sense for what that is, whether it's Wireline, Wireless. I know you and I had spoken about densification back in December; I am assuming it's probably related to that. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So on the VZW margin, the follow-up question around the ARPA, I think this becomes a more tricky question because obviously ARPA is around service, and with the Edge program we are kind of convoluting that now. That it's a tougher metric to get your hands around, which is why we are giving out the recurring installment billings to try to get it on an apples-to-apples comparison. But if you think about that, we grew that ARPA by 5.2%.

So, look, I think given everything that's going on and given the fact that I said we would have a top-line growth of 4%, obviously we believe that we can continue to accrete the ARPA of this business given everything I said about the additional growth things that we are keying in on. Just the jump-off point that we came into this year.

So the other thing, too, is if you go back to 2012, the fourth quarter of 2012 was very much like this quarter of 2014. We really placed a bet on growth and upgrades and solidifying our base in 2012, albeit we added a lot more smartphone net adds back then, but it's pretty much the same quarter that gives us a great basis to jump off into 2015. So that's how I would think about the ARPA metric.

On CapEx, Mike, it goes directly to what you said. I have been pretty consistent with this in the fact that we will spend more CapEx in the Wireless side and we will continue to curtail CapEx on the Wireline side. Some of that is because we are getting to the end of our committed build around FiOS, penetration is getting higher.

We are reconnecting homes that we've already connected, so it's not additional capital that we have to outlay and we are very focused on those, what we call connected homes, that are not our customers to go back after them. That is a very good return for us because we already spent the capital to connect that home.

So it's a lot of combination around that, but yes, this is around densification. This is around our projection of growth for the wireless industry and staying ahead of that. Again, it's all that encompassing so we're looking at a slight increase from where we ended 2014.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just thinking about the densification, are there particular markets where you guys are spending more? Are there pressure points that you look at in 2015 as being areas where you just sort of not rush and got out and spend, but areas of focus?

FRAN SHAMMO: No, not really. It's pretty consistent with what we did in 2014. Obviously, your major cities are where you have your biggest densification happening right now. Because as we launch AWS around the US and get the coverage map up, AWS is really handling most of that outside of the major cities. But it's the major cities that are being densified on a quicker basis.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, great. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning, folks. Fran, it does seem as though one of the standouts for you folks has been the ability to reduce costs through operational efficiency. And I know you touched upon this with some of the questions and your prepared remarks.

But is there any sense that you can give us the scope of opportunities over a multiyear period? I guess the genesis of the question is really we find ourselves in an intensely competitive environment, as you've mentioned. How much opportunity is there for you folks to continue to drive down costs in order to retain this sort of industry-leading margin profile and cash generation ability that you guys have delivered for the last couple of years?

FRAN SHAMMO: Just a couple of thoughts around that. Number one is obviously the more and more we convert 3G customers to 4G that affords us the ability to get on a much more efficient network. It affords us the ability to re-appropriate our spectrum and it affords us to actually start to run down, if you will, the higher-cost network of 3G. So all of that plays into this.

The other thing is, as we said before, we have a very high cost structure in servicing our customers and you are going to see some things different of how we approach customers. Mainly around getting more around self-serve, so that we can do more off the handsets. And we saw over the last two years starting in 2013 into 2014 that this played a big role in how we take costs out of the Wireless cost structure.

On the Wireline side, it's just continuing to do more of the same. So we really don't play up the fact of all the copper-to-fiber migration, but this is really starting to pay benefits to us.

And as we've said, we've been doing this for the last three years. We are now in the position of starting to shut down central offices, which free up real estate for us to monetize and get out of. It reduces the property tax around this, so there's a lot of efficiencies that come from this.

The other thing is that within the one-time charges you probably picked up a severance accrual. In December the Wireline company already has reduced about 2,300 headcount, including about 1,300 represented workforce who took an additional incentive for them to voluntary retire. We are setting the Company up once again to produce a very beneficial, efficient cost structure going into 2015.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks, I wanted to follow-up on your comments about not chasing unprofitable subs and upgrades. Does that change if you begin to go negative on phone net adds? Like, what is your tolerance for sub losses? Because in the past that has been a key level where you've responded with some retention and offensive marketing.

FRAN SHAMMO: Kevin, we always have save programs and specific targeting to a specific customer base or a specific segment, so that's not going to change. My point is here is that there are certain customers that will go for the lowest price and at that point we are probably not going to compete on price with those customers. And that is what you saw.

If you look at it for the fourth quarter, we added 672,000 net phone adds. So I think you have to keep it all in focus that what we are gaining -- we are gaining 4G high-value customers and we are not necessarily losing that 4G high-value customer. So I think you have to look at it in a holistic point of view, but that's really the strategy that we have deployed and we will continue to execute on that strategy.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Just a quick follow-up. Does your guidance change at all under certain Title II outcomes? And what is your current thinking on this, given recent government comments?

FRAN SHAMMO: That's a great question, because I personally have been misquoted both in the press and in Congress on what I've said. So this is a good question for me to clear this up.

First of all, this is not an issue about Internet rules. It's about an issue of FCC reclassifying broadband as a Title II service, and this will absolutely affect us and the industry on long-term investment in our networks.

That can be seen factually as to what happened in the rest of the world, where you have high regulation, the networks are not invested in, they are not good quality of service networks. And that's where this will put us.

I guess I would emphasize also that the approach, in whole or in part, on Title II is an extreme and risky path that will jeopardize our investment and the development of innovation in broadband Internet and related services. It will also tie up the industry in a very uncertain time and cause all types of litigation.

So when I said before and misquoted on the fact that it would not hurt our investment, I was talking about 2015. But if this piece of Title II was to pass, I can absolutely assure you it would certainly change the way we then view our investment in our networks.

The other thing, too, is I think it is important to show that this industry, on a high-level basis, has invested about $50 billion a year in networks and improving the quality of service and open network to everyone. That is what the industry believes is that this is an open Internet basis.

If we curtail the investment of this industry, it will definitely trickle down to what we would consider middle-class jobs. And it's because of most of -- at least for Verizon Wireless, a lot of our build are done by thousands of contractors across the United States. That will impact those small businesses and impact their employees.

So from that perspective, I guess what we would say, Kevin, is we would encourage Congress to adopt a legislative solution. Congress has the authority to adopt clear rules of the road that will allow policymakers in the industry to move on to more important things. So I think that summarizes the position about Title II.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Very helpful, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Great. Thanks, Fran. Just two quick questions, if I may. Just an update on thoughts around the tower sale. I assume it's still part of the plan.

Secondly, I just wanted to explore the ARPU question. A lot was made of your November 1 price cut, but am I crazy to think you could look at this glass half-full? Because with 84% of your traffic now on LTE, and I think you said 66% of your base on LTE phones, did you see some movement upward with that price change that actually could have offset any sort of downward movement you saw? Thanks a lot.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. On the tower sales, look, I think we've been pretty clear on the remarks here. We are not going to talk about the rumors anymore until there's something to substantially state. So at this point I think we will just leave it at that.

As far as the price cuts, you are absolutely correct, Jennifer; when we look at the provisioning of our base, we have seen a significant increase in the amount of customers who are taking our higher data plans, if you will, that drive more revenue. And even with those higher plans, we still see a large portion of those customers breaking their bundles because of video consumption and the increase in video consumption.

So, yes, there is an offset here. It is not all just dilution; there is an upgrade of what customers are using. And obviously we've built the plans around LTE. We've built the plans around we want customers to use more because that's what will generate incremental revenue for the business and give us a return on the continued investment in our network.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great, thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Okay, that's all the time we have for questions, but before we end the call I would like to turn it back to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So at conclusion here I just want to state that Verizon had another strong year of operating and financial results with top-line revenue growth and quality earnings and cash generation. We are very focused on driving growth and profitability.

To that end, our execution strategy is around the assets we have in place. As always, we continually look at options for monetizing certain less-strategic assets and creating value for our shareholders. We continue to develop new products and services in the area of video delivery, Internet of Things that will drive growth and profitability into 2015 and beyond.

We look forward to a very positive 2015 with confidence in our ability to execute our strategy, grow the business profitably, and invest for our future. Thank you all for joining today and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunication Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150124eb1m001e1
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,286 words
   PD
21 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, David. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski, and I'm here with Fran Shammo, our Chief Financial Officer.

As a reminder, our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will also be made available on our website.

Before we get started, I'd like to draw your attention to our safe harbor statement on slide 2. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the financial materials we have posted to our website.

The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential. In terms of our financial results, I will point out that there were no special items included in our reported earnings for the third quarter of 2014.

Earnings per share of $0.89 compares with adjusted earnings of $0.77 per share in the third quarter of last year, an increase of 15.6%. On a year-to-date basis, adjusted earnings per share of $2.65 were up 21.6%. Keep in mind that the $2.65 per share year-to-date result in 2014 does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless from the beginning of the year, since the transaction closed on February 21. As previously noted, full ownership from January 1 to the date of closing would have represented an additional $0.07 of earnings per share in the first quarter.

For purposes of comparability in the Wireline segment, the historical results of the business within the public sector that we sold on July 1 have been reclassified for all periods prior to the sale. These results, which previously were part of global enterprise, have been moved to corporate and other, consistent with how we have dealt with divested operations in the past. You can access this reclassified historical information on our website.

With that, I will turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. Our third-quarter results demonstrate the consistency of our performance and our ability to compete effectively and deliver strong operating and financial results. We entered the year with great confidence in our ability to generate strong financial performance in 2014, and our conviction has not changed.

We believe that steady and consistent investments in networks and platforms will drive innovative products and services and fuel our growth. Our Wireless and Wireline networks will continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage.

The overall industry is very healthy, and we continue to see strong customer demand for wireless and broadband services. The US market has set the pace for global broadband infrastructure investments. In wireless, all four national service providers are investing in 4G networks, resulting in continued innovation, 4G device adoption, and increasing customer usage.

Our competitive position is strong, and we are focused on executing our strategy of providing a compelling value proposition and a great customer experience on the best, most reliable network.

In the third quarter, we produced very strong customer growth in wireless and FiOS, and sustained our strong growth trends in terms of revenue and earnings. We pride ourselves on being an "and" company, delivering quality growth and profitability. We continue to stand apart from our peers with very consistent, high-quality earnings results. We have posted double-digit year-over-year growth in reported and adjusted earnings and earnings per share in 10 of the last 11 quarters.

In Wireless, we had a very strong quarter of high-quality connections growth and profitability. Retail postpaid device activations of 11.7 million were up 14.9%. This is higher volume than the fourth quarter last year when we activated 11.5 million devices. Retail postpaid net adds totaled 1.5 million, up 63.5% from last year. Year-to-date, postpaid net adds of 3.5 million were up 37.4%, which is roughly 1 million more than a year ago.

Our Wireless EBITDA service margin was 49.5%. This is a very strong result, given the volume of device activations and the relatively low percentage of customers choosing the Edge program in the quarter. In Wireline, we had a strong quarter in FiOS, with 162,000 Internet and 114,000 video net subscriber additions.

Consumer revenues grew 4.5%, as we continue to drive FiOS penetration and customer adoption of our Quantum broadband and video products. Our Wireline EBITDA margin remains stable at 23%.

Our strong cash generation enables us to consistently invest in our networks for future growth and return value to our shareholders. Through the first nine months of 2014, we have invested $12.6 billion of capital and paid $5.7 billion in dividends.

In early September, we were pleased to announce that our Board of Directors approved a 3.8% dividend increase which raises our annual dividend to $2.20 per share. This is the eighth consecutive year that our Board has approved a quarterly dividend increase, and the highest percent increase since 2008.

Now let's get into the third-quarter performance in more detail, starting with the consolidated results on slide 4. On a reported basis, total operating revenue grew 4.3% in the third quarter. If we exclude the revenues of the public-sector business we divested from the prior periods, the comparable growth rate would have been 4.9% for the third quarter and 5.2% year-to-date. Our consolidated top-line growth continues to be driven primarily by wireless and FiOS.

In addition to top-line growth, we continue to focus on driving process improvements and cost efficiencies through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program. Consolidated EBITDA was $11.1 billion in the quarter, and our EBITDA margin was 35%.

Let's take a look at our cash flow results on slide 5. As I have noted in prior quarters, it is important to remember that the transaction to acquire full ownership of Verizon Wireless created a lack of comparability between the current and prior periods in our statement of cash flows.

Through the first nine months of 2014, cash flows from operations were $23.2 billion. Additional cash outlays this year included $2.5 billion of incremental cash interest payments and higher cash income taxes of $3.2 billion.

In addition, we had $1.5 billion in pension contributions that we did not make in 2013. In spite of these additional cash outlays and higher capital spending, free cash flow totaled $10.5 billion through the end of September.

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.1 billion and were $12.6 billion year-to-date, up $817 million or 6.9%. We project that capital spending will be around $17 billion for the full year. Our deployment of capital in Wireless has been very consistent throughout the first three quarters of this year.

In the third quarter, Wireless CapEx was $2.5 billion, and through nine months totaled $7.8 billion. We are deploying capital to proactively stay ahead of demand, and our capital investments continue to focus on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network, primarily by increasing network density and deploying spectrum.

We have been actively deploying AWS spectrum across our nationwide footprint and currently have more than 400 markets with AWS, or XLTE, as we've branded it. Our continued deployment of spectrum, along with investments in small cells, distributed antenna systems and in-building solutions will allow us to build upon our network advantage.

In Wireline, capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $4.2 billion year-to-date, down $273 million or 6.1%. Our balance sheet remains strong, and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business and pursue our strategic goals.

Gross debt of $109.2 billion was down about $750 million from last quarter. Our net debt position improved to $102 billion, and the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at the end of the quarter was 2.3 times.

Now let's move into the review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 6. Our Wireless strategy is built on making consistent network investments and providing a compelling value proposition to our customers. This value proposition includes customer choice and an excellent service experience on the nation's most reliable network.

Our investment strategy is focused on adding capacity to our network to meet increasing demand, which is driven by 4G device adoption and higher customer usage. Growth in Wireless revenue and profitability continues to be driven by our high-quality retail postpaid customer base, where we continue to see very strong 4G device adoption.

As I highlighted earlier, we had another exceptional quarter of smartphone and tablet activations. Customer demand on our network continues to increase at a rapid pace. Our recently announced promotional pricing is designed to provide even greater appeal to our More Everything Plans, which we believe will drive more 4G device adoption and stimulate incremental usage on our more efficient LTE network.

We expect that continued success in driving 4G device activations in the fourth quarter will create profitable growth for us as we enter 2015 and beyond.

Total Wireless revenues in the quarter grew to $21.8 billion, up 7%. Service revenues grew 4.8%, driven by 4G LTE connections growth and higher usage on our network. The declining rate of service revenue growth is attributable to device mix, price changes, and the trade-off between lower service revenue and higher monthly equipment billings for customers on Verizon Edge.

In the third quarter, the percentage of phone activations by customers choosing Edge program was approximately 12%, which was down from about 18% in the second quarter. Based on recent promotional pricing for Edge, the percentage of phone activations taking the installment plan option could more than double in the fourth quarter.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, and our service EBITDA margin was 49.5%. The EBITDA benefit in the quarter from the Edge program was approximately $115 million.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account, beginning on slide 7. Retail postpaid revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 3.5% in the quarter. Growth in ARPA is a function of device adoption, account growth, and increased usage. The continued rapid pace of 4G device adoption is improving the quality of our customer accounts.

In the third quarter, we added 4.4 million 4G smartphones and 1.1 million 4G tablets to our postpaid connections base. All of the important account metrics are improving. We ended the quarter with a total of 35.4 million postpaid accounts, and the number of postpaid connections per account was 2.82, which is an increase of 3.7%. 57% of our accounts are on More Everything shared data plans. The average data usage in More Everything accounts has increased nearly 50% year-over-year.

I would also point out that since the ARPA metric is calculated using service revenue, it does not capture the monthly equipment billings from customers on the Edge program. In the third quarter, these monthly equipment billings totaled about $285 million and were approximately $533 million year-to-date.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 8. We ended the quarter with 106.2 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base topped the 100 million mark at 100.1 million, and our prepaid connections totaled 6.1 million. In passing the 100 million postpaid connections milestone, it is worth noting that we have added more than 20 million new connections since 2009, representing a compound annual growth rate of around 5%.

Postpaid gross adds totaled 4.5 million in the quarter, up from 4.2 million in the second quarter and 3.7 million a year ago. Year-to-date, postpaid gross adds were up 15.1%. In terms of the gross add mix in the third quarter, 54% were smartphones and about 36% were connected devices, primarily tablets. Most of the remaining gross adds were basic phones.

Our retail postpaid churn rate of 1% was 3 basis points higher than the third quarter of last year. As I highlighted earlier, retail postpaid net adds in the quarter totaled 1.5 million, compared with 1.4 million in the second quarter and 927,000 a year ago.

Our postpaid net adds mix in the quarter included 2.3 million new 4G devices. Within that total, 1.2 million were 4G smartphones and 1.1 million were 4G tablets. Postpaid phone net adds totaled 457,000, which is comparable to 481,000 in the third quarter last year.

Within the postpaid phone category, the 1.2 million new 4G smartphone adds were partially offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.

Tablet net adds were more than 1 million for the second consecutive quarter. Tablets provide good growth through increased data consumption, lower churn at the account level, and have a lower cost subsidy than smartphones. We have significant headroom in terms of further penetration as our postpaid tablet base was 6.5 million at the end of the quarter. Further customer adoption of tablets clearly represents an incremental growth opportunity for us.

Our postpaid upgrade rate was 7.2% in the third quarter. Once again, these were high-quality smartphone upgrades either from a basic phone, 3G to 4G, or 4G to a newer 4G smartphone. About 1.2 million or 18% of smartphone upgrades this quarter were from basic phones.

Nearly 50% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G, which we monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve. You will recall that in the fourth quarter of 2012, we activated 3.1 million 3G iPhones, as it was the first time we offered a free Apple device to customers signing a new two-year contract.

A majority of these customers will be coming off contract this quarter, providing us with a unique opportunity to drive 4G smartphone adoption. Almost all of our retail connections growth in 2014 have been postpaid.

Through the first nine months, prepaid net adds were only 5,000 compared with 274,000 in 2013. We believe that price-sensitive prepaid customers are moving to the postpaid market.

Next let's turn to slide 9 and take a look at device activations and our continued progress in driving 4G adoption and usage. As I have highlighted, postpaid device activations were very strong at 11.7 million. During the quarter, we activated 8.9 million smartphones and 1.3 million tablets.

Our smartphone penetration at the end of the quarter increased to 77% of total phones. We have 65.4 million smartphones in total, and 48.2 million of them are 4G. A year ago we had 29 million 4G smartphones, so we have made significant progress in driving 4G penetration. And yet, we still have a significant opportunity in front of us, with more than 17 million 3G smartphones and 20 million basic phones in our connections base.

Beyond smartphones, tablets and other Internet devices are contributing to our overall 4G device penetration. At the end of the third quarter, more than 59% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G, up from 38% a year ago.

Data and video usage on our network continues to rise. Currently, about 79% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network. As we handle this increased demand, our network continues to be acknowledged as the performance leader in national studies conducted by widely-recognized third-party organizations. We have raised our own network standards, and our performance continues to get better.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 10. In the consumer business, we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS. In the third quarter, consumer revenue growth was 4.5%, making it 9 consecutive quarters of growth in excess of 4%. Mass markets, which includes small business, grew 3.2%. FiOS now represents 76% of consumer revenue, and we are sustaining strong double-digit revenue growth.

In the third quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 12.3%, driven by customer additions, pricing actions, and Quantum penetration. Strong adoption of Quantum continued, as 57% of our FiOS Internet customer subscribed to the higher speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.

We continue to enrich the customer value proposition and drive investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform. In the second quarter, we introduced FiOS Quantum TV with enhanced features and functionality in terms of storage, recording capabilities, and control of content.

In July we introduced speed match, a service upgrade that increases customer upload speeds to match their download speeds. This competitive advantage provides FiOS customers with faster and more consistent upload speeds, which is compelling for social media and gaming activities. Our focus in FiOS markets is to drive higher penetration by adding quality customers, generating profitable growth in a very competitive market, and improving our overall investment returns.

In broadband, we added 162,000 net FiOS Internet customers in the quarter and now have 6.5 million subscribers, representing 40.6% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers in the third quarter were up positive 69,000, up more than 23%. In FiOS video, we added 114,000 new subscribers, so we now have 5.5 million subscribers, representing 35.5% penetration.

During the quarter, we converted 55,000 customers from copper to fiber, bringing our year-to-date total to around 200,000. This network evolution initiative is enabling us to systematically upgrade the network and provide higher quality of service to customers. Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services, which result in additional recurring revenue.

Let's turn to slide 11 and cover the enterprise and wholesale business. In the enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the third quarter, global enterprise revenue declined $155 million or 4.4%. Revenue declines in legacy transport services and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications which are smaller in scale.

Strategic services totaled $2.1 billion and grew 1%. This category as currently defined includes both the IP layer and applications such as data center cloud security and managed and professional services. Revenue from services in the IP layer have been impacted by competitive price compression, which is offsetting growth in application services.

In our global wholesale business, quarterly revenues declined $79 million or 4.8%. Healthy demand for Ethernet services in each of the last two quarters has offset a larger portion than expected of the revenue declines from price compression, technology migration, and other secular challenges.

In the third quarter, Wireline operating expenses declined 1.7% and our EBITDA margin was 23%. As we said, we are making progress but are not satisfied. We have more work to do in order to drive improved profitability in this segment. On a year-to-date basis, the Wireline EBITDA margin was up 60 basis points to 23%.

From an overall segment perspective, our strategy is to continue scaling our FiOS business and improve the enterprise revenue mix by driving growth in the newer strategic services like cloud and security. In addition, we believe that process improvements and retooling efforts using Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles will improve our cost structure and drive operating efficiencies, resulting in a stronger Wireline business.

Let's move next to our summary slide. With three-quarters of 2014 behind us, our financial performance has been strong. We continue to deliver high-quality, double-digit earnings growth and our cash generation is strong, enhanced by full access to all the Wireless cash flows.

These cash flows have allowed us to consistently invest in our networks and platforms for future growth and innovation. In addition, we returned value to shareholders with a 3.8% dividend increase.

We have a strong market position, and that has demonstrated ability to compete effectively and execute our strategy. Our high-quality customer base and Wireless and Wireline networks continue to be the hallmark of our brand, and provide the fundamental strength upon which we will build our competitive advantage.

We are also building for the future through our global platforms in video delivery and machine to machine. New revenue streams from machine to machine and telematics are beginning to emerge. In the third quarter, these revenues were approximately $150 million and totaled more than $400 million through nine months, an increase of more than 40% year-to-date.

Our strong volume growth in both Wireless and FiOS give us great confidence heading into the fourth quarter. We continue to target consolidated revenue growth of 4% in 2014. For the full year, our consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin, as well as the Wireless EBITDA service margin results, will be dependent on fourth-quarter volumes and Edge installment plan take rates. The Wireline EBITDA margin remains on track to expand on a full-year basis.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Before taking questions, I would like to remind everyone that we filed an application to participate in the AWS-3 spectrum auction. As a result, due to the FCC's rules, we cannot answer any questions related to the auction or AWS-3 spectrum.

David, we are now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the question. So two if I could. First, I was wondering if you guys could just talk a little bit in light of Lowell's comments in the briefing about his conviction level, confidence level about 4Q, about the cadence of competition and how you felt you had to respond over the course of the quarter.

Obviously, things started off fairly stable, and then we had the T-Mobile promotion followed by the Sprint promotion, followed by incremental actions in terms of double data and things like that. So if you could kind of give us a sense as to how the quarter trended and what you are seeing that is giving you the confidence for the rest of the fourth quarter, it would be helpful.

Then second, Fran, I think that we've got a pretty good understanding that smartphone customers have been generating roughly double the value of feature phone customers. You are referencing the 4G smartphone opportunity as being something incremental to the 3G smartphone opportunity. If you could put some numbers around that, that would be super helpful. Thank you so much.

FRAN SHAMMO: Great. Thanks, David. So look, on the competitive front, I think that the takeaway here is that we produced an extremely strong quarter from a growth perspective, and I anticipate you're going to see that across the industry. If you look at, as I said, we see a shift from prepaid to postpaid.

Not necessarily within our base because of the high-quality and strict requirements we have from a credit perspective, but there's still a lot of growth out there. If you look at just the industry itself, you take tablets, you take the video consumption, you look at machine-to-machine and Internet of things, all these things are contributing to our growth.

If you look at machine-to-machine for us, it's the first time we gave you a revenue number, and that's growing at 40% year-over-year. So it's more than just about a smartphone customer. As I've said before, if I could I would stop disclosing net adds. It's all about how we build the base of revenue and how we continue to grow this business into the future.

If you look at the competitive front, there was a lot of movement, but it was not unexpected. As you go into the fourth quarter, this is normally a very high-competitive quarter. It's a very high-volume quarter for ourselves from a holiday perspective.

But I think if you look at us, as we've done in the past we look at what the competition is doing. We take a very rational and logical approach to what we're going to respond to.

If you looked at what we did, we responded with some Edge pricing on a promotional basis that quite honestly puts us back into the market. Given all the moves, we were slightly out of the market. Like, if you saw back in the first quarter of this year we did similar things, and we continued to grow, and we continued to produce the profitability that is expected of our shareholders.

So I think the response you've seen is a logical, rational response. There will be upcoming promotions, I'm sure, from everyone as the holiday season gets closer, and we have our own plans in place to execute on.

So I think from a fourth-quarter perspective you should expect high volume. You should expect from us that our upgrade rate will increase. We have the highest backlog of any previous launch of an iPhone that we have coming into the fourth quarter, which is a high backlog of both new customers and also for upgrades.

So I know that our upgrade rate is going to be fairly significant in the fourth quarter. As we said on the call here, 3.1 million 2012 3G iPhone customers are waiting to upgrade now as they come out of contract. So that's a great perspective, and that leads me into your second question.

If you think about some of the data points we've given you from a 3G smartphone customer to a 4G smartphone customer, the first time we've told you that within our More Everything plans -- which is for the majority 4G smartphone customers -- their usage pattern is going up 50% year-over-year. If you look at tablets, a tablet customer uses more than a 3G smartphone customer.

So if you start taking together with the volume increases and other industries have put out what the usage pattern of video customers are on a 4G LTE network, video is a huge consumption for us. And it continues to increase quarter over quarter, year over year, and that's driving that 50% increase in usage in our 4G base.

So when you combine all of that, every time we can move a customer from a 3G smartphone or a basic phone into our 4G portfolio their usage and revenue goes up. So it's a great combination for us. And I will end the question that says, again, we are focused on the quality of our base and the quality of our adds to generate our growth.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys; thanks. Two things. One to follow up, Fran, on something you just said, prepaid customers moving to the postpaid market: is that a good thing, a bad thing? Do you think these customers offer a similar churn level?

They have passed the credit check, right? And do they tend to bring their own devices, or are they taking Edge at a different rate from what visibility you have?

Then second, there's been a lot of articles written lately on asset sales from you, whether that was wireline assets or towers. Can you give us an update on how you are think about that? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure; thanks, Phil. On the prepaid customer move to postpaid, look; I mean, we're just looking at the overall industry and where prepaid growth is from a year ago to where it is today. The assumption is that we do see the prepaid customer moving.

If you look at the entry prices now that are on postpaid -- and this is really around single-line, not multifamily. But if you look at single-line pricing, those price points are pretty darn close to what a prepaid customer would pay on prepaid.

So the hurdle is the credit check. And obviously for Verizon we have not changed our credit profile for any of our customers; it is the same it has been for over a year now, even when Edge was introduced.

So, again, it's not as favorable to us. It was more of where are these customers going, and we think they're going to lower-end type entry point, which is not unusual. I mean, the same thing happened back in the voice world when voice became closer to what the prepaid were.

From a device perspective, some is own device; but others are also buying up into device.

As far as the asset sales go, look, I have nothing to announce today. We have said publicly that we certainly would entertain a sale of our towers if the terms and conditions were right; and at this point we don't have anything there.

As Lowell and I have always said, we continue to look at our portfolio for opportunities, but it has to be at the right time, the right place, and the right price. So therefore there's really nothing to talk further because there's nothing to announce.

PHIL CUSICK: All right. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Goldman Sachs.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Yes, thanks for taking the question. I just want to maybe follow up on the full-year margin guidance. It sounds like -- and correct me if I'm wrong -- but it sounds like it's most sensitive to the Edge take rate. So along those lines, in the past you have been fairly agnostic or you've seemed somewhat agnostic as to whether your customers were choosing a subsidy or choosing Edge.

I'm wondering. Are you changing your thought process there? Meaning are you trying to achieve a desired outcome? You noted that it looks like the take rate could double in the fourth quarter.

And then just broad levels, is there a breaking point? Meaning if Edge were to see an adoption rate above a certain level you probably would have margins that were up; and if it was below they would probably be down? Just to help us with a modeling exercise.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, thanks, Brett. Look; there's a bunch of factors entering into the fourth quarter here. As I said, we do think that the Edge rate will take an uptake. You've probably already seen us increasing our advertising around the price points of Edge, which is where the rest of the industry has been advertising around, so we need to be in market with those price points, which is why we launched the promotional pricing that you saw.

But if you look at the 12% this quarter or the 18% last quarter, you can get a flavor on what the impact is to our bottom line, which is 120 basis points this quarter. I think it was 134 basis points last quarter. Beyond that I'm not going to give any further information on that.

But if you think about the Edge take rate, if it doubles then you can kind of extrapolate what that math would be. But then offsetting that will be the upgrades. At this point I don't know where the upgrades will come in, whether it will be Edge or under the old subsidy model.

Again we are very focused on customer choice. We give our customers the choice of the subsidized handset with the higher service pricing; or we give them the Edge, which they pay for the phone over the term, but it gives them the availability to upgrade sooner. So it is a customer choice and it's hard for me to identify what that will be.

But as I said, Brett, we have a very high volume of backlog on the iPhone. We have a bunch of new phones coming out in the fourth quarter from other manufacturers that are extremely good, so I think we will have a great lineup of product.

It's going to be a high-volume, highly competitive time of the year. And beyond that I'm not going to give any specific guidance to margins, but it will certainly be based on those volumes and how those customers come in.

BRETT FELDMAN: All right; great. Thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot; good morning. Fran, you talked about a $17 billion number for CapEx. You're coming towards the end of the XLTE rollout. Is there some opportunity for the -- it seems like the growth rate has slowed, but for some -- the CapEx as a percent of revenues to fall over the coming quarters? Or are we going to continue keeping at this sort of rate as a percent of revenues?

Then on the Wireline side bit of softness in SMB and enterprise. You talked about some of the secular factors. Do you detect any change in macro or in the competitive environment, or is it just more of the same?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Simon. On CapEx we said we'd be around $17 billion. As we said that, coming into this year, we were determined to improve our CapEx-to-revenue ratio, and I believe we will do that on a year-over-year basis.

This year we had a much more flatness to our CapEx spending. So if you looked at prior year we always had more of a ramp into the back half of the year. You won't see that this year; so it has become more level.

And I do anticipate that we will be able to continue to improve on our CapEx-to-revenue ratio.

As far as whole dollars go, we said around the $17 billion mark, and I will give you some more guidance in January. But I don't anticipate that that will change pretty materially going into next year. So again, the focus will be to continue to increase that CapEx-to-revenue ratio.

Then on the Wireline side, first, let's talk about the consumer small business area. We did have an inflection point this quarter where we did suffer a 4.1% decline in the small business. Some of that was due to a year-over-year comparison; but some of that was due to some one-time things and I think that will come back in line here in the fourth quarter.

But we did have a very good, strong FiOS quarter at 4.5%. The other thing I would say around FiOS is, if you look at the components of content and our revenue per customer, our revenue per customer is growing nicely and is actually outpacing the cost of content. This year, if you look at our content costs, we are around that 2% to 4% growth rate in content.

So from a competitive standpoint that's an advantage for us to drop our margin to the bottom line on our consumer piece. And if you look at FiOS, FiOS continues to contribute more and more net income quarter over quarter. So that is a positive.

On the enterprise side, look, I think that I feel like I record this every quarter and it does not change. I really don't see much changing in the enterprise spectrum.

If you look at the European market, that is softening for us, and also with the FX impact of some of that softness of where the dollar is. So I think we have a lot of headwinds right now in enterprise; and I will honestly tell you I don't see that changing for at least the next couple of quarters at this point in time.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the question. Fran, you referenced that the More Everything plans were generating 50% greater usage year-over-year. Is there a way to think about how much revenue that usage is contributing and how you feel that the ability to monetize the growth in consumption as some of the rate plans have promoted higher-usage buckets? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes; thanks, Michael. Look, I'm not going to give you specific how the revenue increases. You can see that in our ARPA, which is growing nicely. If you see the sequential improvement in ARPA this quarter from last quarter, it grew to $161 from $159.

If you look at year-over-year we are up 3.5%. So I think that metric speaks for itself as how we are monetizing the increased usage.

But if you think about this, the 4G LTE network is 3 to 4 times more efficient than prior networks. So I guess I look at it this way: if you go back in time and you go back to the voice world, and you go from the beginning of time to where the voice world matured, what happened was the price per minute decreased and usage increased, and the overall industry increased its revenue because of that increase in usage.

I kind of look at the data world in the same perspective. You are going to see the price per megabit decrease, but the usage is going to outpace that. And at least under our tiered pricing structure in the More Everything plans, each time you upgrade you are going to incrementally pay little bit more for what you use. And that is really what is favoring in on the revenue growth.

But it's also coming over a very efficient network that does not cost incrementally to produce that increased usage. So it is a good combination to have in an efficient network with an ever-increasing consumption rate.

So I do anticipate that the structure works. I think it's going to grow as long as we increase the data bundle usage on a competitive standard basis.

I still think, though, with the increase in usage -- as we said, 50% year-over-year -- you are still going to see a healthy growth in the revenue on an ARPA basis. So I think the combination works, but you will see that price per megabit decrease and with the continued increase in consumption.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Fran, maybe a quick follow-up to Mike's question on the service revenue. I mean some of their margins, there's a lot of moving parts as we look into fourth quarter.

But you saw 100 basis points of service revenue growth deceleration. You are doing -- you're going to be having more Edge come through. Is that the kind of deceleration we should see again in the fourth quarter? Or do all the upgrades offset that? That's number one.

Then number two, Apple obviously recently announced their move to a soft SIM card, at least for the iPads, the new iPads that they are introducing. Verizon was conspicuously absent from the companies in the US supporting that. Can you give a little color in terms of your positioning in terms of that new product? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, thanks. On the service revenue side, look, there is a lot of puts and pushes here from a service revenue perspective. If you go back, obviously, we had a price change in the first quarter, which is working its way through the system. As we said before we were not going to reprice our base in one lump sum; we would work on that and address those customers that were a high-churn profile and treat them accordingly, which we've done for many, many years.

And we continue to do that, and that puts a pressure on service revenue as we get them into the price plan that's going to keep them on our network.

In addition, Edge has an impact here because you are moving service revenue into equipment revenue. And we gave you those numbers in the upfront comments of how you should think about that.

But that improves the -- if you take those recurring monthly billings on equipment revenue and put them back into the revenue stream, that increases the rate of percentage increase that we have and also increases the service revenue growth year-over-year.

But, look, there is some deceleration here, as Michael brought up on the last one. As we continue to increase the bundles there is going to take a little bit of time before people have to take the next step up.

But I will tell you, this quarter with our NFL agreement and the amount of video consumption we are having, we had one of the best quarters ever of customers stepping up to the next bucket. So again I think all these things factor into it; but Edge will definitely have a deceleration factor on the service revenue.

As far as the soft card SIM card with Apple, we have our own SIM card that we are putting in the devices, both in our indirect channels and our store channels. So that's really all there is to be said on that issue.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hey, guys; thanks. Fran, can you just hit briefly on the small/medium enterprise marketplace? That seems like you have continued weakness, which you pointed out. How much of that is this technology migration versus the cable competitors starting to move up market a little bit?

Then secondly, thinking about over-the-top, there's been a lot of stuff in the past couple weeks. It seems like it's of a building discussion between HBO, CBS.

How do you guys think about that? I know you bought the Intel On Cue business. When do you get more aggressive there?

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay; thanks, Mike. Look, on the enterprise space I think there's a couple things here. You do have the tech refresh, and obviously as they come off legacy and go into IP, the IP has a lower price point.

Then also, as I said my opening remarks, this IP market is becoming more and more competitive from a pricing perspective. So as -- what we are faced with as we have major customers who are renewing, coming off 3- and 5-year contracts, obviously they are being repriced back into where the IP market is today, which is pretty significantly lower than it was 3 to 5 years ago. So you are having that price compression happen there.

We're gaining new business, but again it's coming in at a lower rate. And we still have that decline of voice and LD that's going away and it just can't offset it.

From a strategic services perspective, we are seeing some good things here. We are also seeing some improvement in the federal space. But as you know, in this business when you start to improve it could take 6 to 8 months before that revenue comes to be, as you implement this new technology.

So there is some glimmer of hope here as the federal government starts to purchase more, but we are probably not going to see any of that until 2015. But then again we are working against a bunch of headwinds as far as repricing on the IP and the tech refresh.

As far as cable and what's happening in the small business, look, as I've said in the previous quarters, where we have FiOS and compete in the small business market we are gaining share. We are losing share outside of that FiOS footprint in the old copper, and I'm not going to be able to compete there with the speed.

So that is something that we're just going to continue to see here into the future around that copper plant. But within FiOS we continue to gain share.

We expand where we can to capture more small business is that footprint, and we capitalize on that. But you have to remember it's only in 13 states.

As far as over-the-top goes, I think that the way I look at this is this is great for the customer. This is great for the industry. This shows that there are new innovative type arrangements that are happening.

As we have said before, we are having discussions with a lot of content providers around innovative models going forward, and I think this sets a lot of stage. So I think it opens up a lot of doors and it's something optimistic for the future of the video business.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just a quick follow-up on the small/medium piece of it. Do you see cable gaining more capabilities there? Or is it still really relegated to the very small customer base?

FRAN SHAMMO: When they said that they are moving up, my perception of this is, as we look at small/medium business and even to medium business we capture medium business as anyone that has 1,000 or less employees. So it's a pretty different definition of where they are saying they are moving up from, versus where we are playing.

Again within our enterprise business, we are really focused on the major large enterprise customers. And we really deal with that small business, which is what we classify as 20 and below employees, within our FiOS arena. So it is a different spectrum of definition.

But look, they are increasing their capability. They are having success in that what I would consider small business arena, maybe the lower-end, mid business level. But they will continue to do what they do and we will continue to do what we do.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH: Thanks, Fran. Can we talk a little about your net debt targets? Obviously with the spectrum auction coming up, potential asset sales, all this stuff is going to impact your ability to deleverage going forward.

Can you talk a little bit about where we should think about net debt at the end of 2015? And given the lower interest rate environment, does that change your calculus on the amount of leverage you want to leave on the balance sheet?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Kevin. Here's what I will say, because I'm not going to give any guidance on where I think our debt will be in 2015 at this point. But today where we stand is, as you see, we're at net debt of $102 billion, with our gross debt at $109.2 billion. We have a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.3 and a gross debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.5.

I will reference you back to an S&P report that came out, I guess maybe a month ago, on some projections around what they thought we would spend in the future for auctions and also how much debt that they think that we would pay down. The report was extremely optimistic and said that they could see us being upgraded within a 12- to 24-month period of time if things continue.

So I think we are right on track with where we said we would be when we closed on the Vodafone deal. I said that we wanted to get back to an A- rating within 4 to 5 years. The S&P report shows that that could be accelerated based on our performance here.

We are generating strong cash flow. And what I would tell you is we're in a great position to execute on the strategic initiatives that we need to execute on. So we will have more to say on this as we close out this year and come to our call in January.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Just quickly on FiOS, we've seen in the last few years significant price hikes, which as you indicated has more than offset programming cost increases. As you look into 2015 should we expect more of that? Can you continue to have revenue growth outpace cost inflation on the FiOS side?

FRAN SHAMMO: I will give you guidance next call on where we think FiOS growth rate will be. But here's what I will say, is -- last year we did our price increases in the fourth quarter. We're doing that again this year to be ready to absorb the content costs that always happen on January 1. So that is something that you should anticipate and you will see.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Thank you very much and good morning, folks. Fran, just building on Mike's prior question on the recent developments around over-the-top and unbundling, it seems as though you feel pretty comfortable around the opportunity, particularly given your investment in fiber, in delivering some of these high-bandwidth capability to your customers.

I was wondering, if we think about the competitive landscape and developments like this, does it strengthen your view on the diminishing ability for competitive direct video services like satellite technology to compete in what seems to be an increasing on-demand and OTT world?

Then I guess secondly, if we think about the opportunity on the wireless side, you folks have made a number of tuck-in acquisitions around content distribution. I was wondering how we should think about -- obviously there's the relationship with the NFL -- how we should figure out the opportunities on that front, and when we could start to see some -- either material adoption from customers or some of these new revenue streams come to fruition. Thanks a lot.

FRAN SHAMMO: A couple thoughts here, Amir. Number one is, when I look at the, quote, over-the-top type video area there's two avenues. There's the over-the-top into the home and then there's the over-the-top via wireless. I think over-the-top via wireless you are already starting to see that with agreements like the NFL and some other things.

I also think that with the technology of multicast coming, this will certainly open up doors for more of that content to be delivered over-the-top via the wireless network, because multicast is so efficient in delivering a programming-type service over the LTE network. But of course that will be major around more live events, concerts, sports, those types of things.

As far as over-the-top into the broadband home, I think that what this says is that the content providers have realized that there is a whole population out there that do not subscribe to satellite TV or linear TV, and they are trying to penetrate that Millennial base that does not have these types of offers and wants something smaller, more convenient for them. As I said I think this brings in a lot of innovative-type models of how to really attack some of these other segments of the marketplace that don't have that type of service.

Do I think in the near term this is going to decrease linear TV or satellite TV? No, I don't.

But I think it's another avenue of how we open up the ecosystem with innovative models. And that's something that we are very, very interested in, especially around wireless and even as we go out into more of the broadband-type market.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Great; thanks for taking the question. Fran, I realize you can't talk about the AWS-3 auction, but I wanted to explore the broadcast auction. Last time we heard from you, you said you needed to know more about the rules to express your enthusiasm.

We know a little bit more today. I just wanted to take your pulse on what your thoughts are as we look at it today.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, Jennifer, unfortunately I can't; I am not actually allowed to. My lawyers are telling me I'm not allowed to answer any type of spectrum questions.

At this point it's still far in the future and we are focused on the current one. So I think at this point I will leave it at that.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Got it. If I could just explore, just an M2M question then, obviously great growth there. You guided or talked about 40% growth year-over-year.

Do you think we are at the point we're seeing this needle move we've often been waiting for? Is this the year, or really accelerate in 2014 -- 2015, rather?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I think that as we tried to allude over the last couple of quarters, we gave you growth rate; this quarter we are giving you revenue numbers, and we will continue to do that going forward. As I said before, this is not necessarily about how many connections I put on the network. This is about how many of those connections actually pay revenue and we earn money.

So, as you know, we stopped disclosing connections a while ago, but I will tell you that the connection growth is ever-increasing here. There's a lot of avenues that are being opened up around Internet of Things, around healthcare, around energy management, fleet; so you can go through all the verticals and there's so many solutions that are coming to forbear.

Which is why we -- over I guess now a year-and-a-half ago we opened up our second Innovation Center out in Palo Alto. This is something that we are very, very focused on. I think there's a lot of good opportunity here, and this will certainly be a driver of growth for the entire industry.

The other thing I think that separates us apart from our competition is, obviously with our Hughes acquisition, we play in another tower that no one else plays in. Everybody is playing today in the connectivity tower, but with our Hughes acquisition we are actually playing in the customer service and concierge tower as well and being able to deliver some of that Big Data and looking at ways to monetize some of that data to our end customers, who are really business customers, who are looking at business-to-business versus business-to-consumer.

So this is just another area I think of growth for the industry, and obviously we are capable to capitalize on that.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great. Thanks, Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: We have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Schildkraut, Evercore.

JONATHAN SCHILDKRAUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTRNERS: All right, thanks for sneaking me in here. Yes, I've got a question on LTE broadcast. I just wanted to get an update on where we were and understand whether implementation go-forward is about technology, or is it about content.

Then, Fran, you made some interesting comments about the growth of video within the data consumption packages that you currently have. I'm wondering if you've looked at what amount of that video could ultimately be sent out over LTE broadcast and the potential implications to margins. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Jonathan. LTE multicast, the network was ready in August of this past year; so we have built out the network to be able to handle multicast. As you know we demonstrated it back in January with the Super Bowl. So the network is capable.

The chipsets are now being implemented into most of the devices that are coming out in the fourth quarter. Some phones in the third quarter had that chipset, but most will have it in the fourth quarter. Not all.

So, look, the way I look at this ecosystem is it's going to take us about a year before those chipsets ramp. And we have some volume there, which gets the attention of the content provider.

But as I said before, having a lot of great conversations with content providers. They are excited about it. But again, they want to see how many customers actually have the capability to use that technology, and I think that will be a year away.

But I think this opens up a lot of new avenues for us. I don't know yet how the ecosystem will generate revenue on this.

Is it a revenue share model? Is it an advertising model? Is it a consumer pay model? We are not sure yet of how the ecosystem will play itself out, and I think that will come within the next year.

The other critical piece here is that for the first time coming in the fourth quarter we will have an independent third party to be able to tell the content providers who actually watches their shows on a mobile handset, which has never been able to be done before, other than from the carriers. So I think this does again open up some of that ecosystem.

So from that perspective I think we are really in good shape from an ecosystem perspective. As far as the bundling goes and the usage goes, again, we will have to wait to see how this multicast technology comes to market and how it's capitalized on.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you. But before we end the call I would like to turn the call back to Fran for a few closing remarks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Here's my closing comments.

I guess I would say, look, we had another strong quarter of operating and financial results. We count ourselves on a quality base and a quality addition. We count on the quality of our network in driving top-line growth and profitability.

By focusing on execution around the assets we already have in place, we are delivering consistent, high-quality earnings and returning value to our shareholders.

At the same time we're developing new products and services in the areas of video delivery, over-the-top, machine-to-machine for future growth and profitability. We have great confidence in our ability to execute on our strategy and grow the business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us today, and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141023eaal001md
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,388 words
   PD
22 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, David. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski. I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. We appreciate you joining us earlier than our usual time this morning.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statement about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in our Verizon filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our quarterly performance, I would like to cover a special item that is included in our reported results on slide three. For the second quarter of 2014, we reported earnings of $1.01 per share on GAAP basis. These reported results include a pretax gain of $707 million related to the sale of 700 megahertz A Block spectrum licenses. On the after-tax basis, this gain increased reported net income by $434 million or $0.10 per share.

As we have done in the past, we have accounted for the gain on the sale of these licenses at the corporate level, so it is not part of our Wireless segment results. Excluding the effect of this nonoperational item, adjusted earnings per share was $0.91 for the second quarter compared with $0.73 a year ago, or growth of 24.7%.

On a year-to-date basis, adjusted earnings per share were $1.76 compared with $1.41 last year, up 24.8%. Keep in mind that the $1.76 per share first-half result does not reflect full ownership of Verizon Wireless for the entire first quarter since the transaction closed on February 21. As discussed on our first-quarter call, full ownership for the quarter represented an additional $0.07 per share of earnings.

With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. We entered 2014 with a great confidence in our ability to grow the business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future. In the first quarter, we closed the Vodafone transaction and delivered strong financial results. On our last earnings call, I indicated that we exited the first quarter with better momentum and expected that to carry forward.

As you can see from our second-quarter results, we delivered on what we said, producing very strong customer growth metrics in Wireless and FiOS and driving excellent topline growth and profitability. We are competing effectively in all markets and executing our strategy, which is focused on providing network reliability and a great customer experience.

Over the past two and half years, we have delivered consistent high quality earnings results with double-digit year-over-year growth in reported and adjusted earnings per share in nine of the last 10 quarters. Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.91 represented another quarter of more than 20% growth. This sustained earnings growth demonstrates our ability to execute effectively in all parts of the business in a highly competitive environment.

Our consolidated revenue performance was strong with growth accelerating to 5.7%, our highest growth rate in the past six quarters. In Wireless, we had a great quarter of both growth and profitability. 4G device activations were exceptionally strong, resulting in 2.3 million 4G postpaid net adds. Total postpaid net additions topped 1.4 million. Total operating revenue grew 7.5%, with service revenue growth of 5.9% and our EBITDA service margin was 50.3%.

In Wireline, we also had a good quarter, with improved growth and margin expansion. Quarterly operating revenue grew 0.3%, which is a milestone led by consumer growth of 5.3% as we continue to drive FiOS penetration and customer adoption of our Quantum broadband and video products. Wireline EBITDA increased 4.9% and the EBITDA margin improved to 23.2%, up 90 basis points sequentially and 100 basis points year-over-year.

Our cash generation continues to be very strong, enabling us to consistently invest in our networks for future growth and innovation. Free cash flow was $3.3 billion in the quarter and totaled $6.3 billion for the first half.

Now let's get into our second-quarter performance in more detail, starting with consolidated results on slide 5. Total operating revenue grew 5.7% in the quarter, continuing our consistent and improving topline growth trend. Revenue increases were once again driven by Wireless and FiOS.

As we indicated last quarter, new revenue streams from machine-to-machine and telematics, while still relatively small, are beginning to emerge and make positive contributions with revenue growth of more than 50% in the quarter.

Our continued focus on driving process improvements and cost efficiencies is also paying off. In the second quarter, adjusted operating income increased 10.4%. To my earlier point about consistent earnings growth, we have also delivered double-digit growth and adjusted operating income in nine of the last 10 quarters. On an adjusted basis, consolidated EBITDA grew 6.4% to $11.1 billion. And our EBITDA margin was up 30 basis points to 35.4%.

Let's take a look at our cash flow results on slide 6. As we previously discussed, it is important to note the lack of comparability between the current and prior periods in our statement of cash flows as a result of the transaction to acquire full ownership of Verizon Wireless. In 2014, the cash flows from operations line will include higher cash payments for interest and taxes. The cash flows from financing section will have lower cash distributions to Vodafone and higher overall dividend payments to our shareholders due to the increase in shares outstanding.

In the first half of 2014, cash flows from operations were $14.8 billion, which included an incremental $1.2 billion of cash interest payments, $1.5 billion in cash taxes, and $800 million of pension funding that we did not have in the first half of 2013. In spite of these additional uses of cash and higher capital spending, free cash flow totaled $6.3 billion year to date.

Again the key point on cash flows is a simple one. The amount of cash available to us will be significantly greater this year since under the former partnership structure 45% of any excess cash at Wireless would at some point be distributed to Vodafone. So even after higher interest payments and greater cash taxes, we will have more cash available at the corporate level than prior to the transaction.

I would also point out that we received $2.4 billion in cash proceeds in the quarter from the transaction to sell wireless licenses to T-Mobile. Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.3 billion and were $8.5 billion year to date, up about $900 million or 11.5%.

Wireless capital spending in the second quarter was $2.8 billion and through the first half totaled $5.3 billion, well ahead of what we spent through the first half of last year. We are investing to proactively stay ahead of demand. As we've said, our capital investments are focused on adding capacity to optimize our 4G LTE network, primarily by increasing network density and deploying spectrum.

We are actively deploying AWS spectrum across our nationwide footprint and currently have more than 350 markets with AWS or XLTE as we are branding it. The continued deployment of AWS and the addition of small cells, distributed antenna systems, and in-building solutions will fortify our network advantage.

in Wireline, capital expenditures totaled $1.3 billion in the quarter and $2.7 billion year to date, which was down $219 million or 7.4%. Our balance sheet remains strong and we continue to have the financial flexibility to grow the business.

Gross debt of just under $110 billion was essentially unchanged from the last quarter. Our net debt position improved to about $104 billion and the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio at the end of the quarter was 2.4 times.

Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 7.

Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership and network quality, reliability, and the overall customer experience. Our capital investment strategy is focused on adding capacity to the network to meet increasing 4G device adoption, which will drive higher customer usage.

As I highlighted earlier, we had an exceptional quarter of 4G smartphone and tablet activations, with increases in gross additions and upgrades. We also did an excellent job in terms of customer retention. The increase in device volumes was driven by a combination of factors starting with the compelling value proposition of our new More Everything plans on our high-quality 4G LTE network. As you know, we refreshed our pricing framework and value proposition in the first quarter.

Within these plans, we are providing customers a choice between the traditional two-year service contracts with subsidized devices or Verizon Edge, where customers make monthly installment payments for their devices and receive discounted monthly service pricing.

We are also driving 4G device adoption with attractive tablet offers. Our sales strategy in the second quarter dramatically improved customer growth, which created strong momentum for us as we enter the second half of the year.

Total Wireless revenues grew to $21.5 billion, up 7.5%. Our service revenues grew 5.9% to $18.1 billion. This was the first full quarter of discounted service pricing for customers on Verizon Edge. A portion of the sequential decline in the rate of growth was due to the trade-off between lower service revenue and higher monthly equipment billings. The percentage of phone activations by customers choosing Edge increased to about 18% in the quarter, up from about 13% in the first quarter.

In terms of profitability, we generated $9.1 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 6.8%. As I highlighted earlier, our service EBITDA margin was 50.3%, 50 basis points higher than a year ago. The estimated benefit to EBITDA in the quarter from Edge was not significantly different than in the first quarter due to the cumulative impact of service price discounts in the program.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide 8. Our service revenue growth was once again driven by 4G smartphone and tablet adoption as well as increased data usage. Retail postpaid revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 4.7%, which was down from 6.3% in the first quarter. Again more than half of the decline in the rate of growth resulted from this being the first full quarter of discounted monthly service pricing from Edge. Since ARPA is calculated using service revenue, it does not capture the monthly equipment billings from customers on the Edge program.

In the second quarter, monthly equipment billings totaled about $180 million, which was significantly higher than the first quarter.

We continue to see good additional device adoption within our customer accounts. We ended the second quarter with an average of 2.8 retail connections per account, an increase of 3.7%. About 55% of our 35.2 million postpaid accounts have subscribed to More Everything share data plans. Increased usage per device and per account continues to drive step-ups to higher data tiers.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 9. We ended the quarter with 104.6 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base reached 98.6 million and prepaid totaled just over 6 million. Postpaid gross additions in the quarter were significantly higher both sequentially and year-over-year. Our 4.2 million postpaid gross adds were 18.1% higher than a year ago. In terms of the gross add mix, more than half were smartphones and about 40% were Internet devices, primarily tablets.

Our retail postpaid churn rate of 0.94% was much improved from the first quarter and only 1 basis point higher than the second quarter of last year. As we previously said, postpaid net additions were very strong and totaled 1.441 million, up 900,000 sequentially and about 500,000 from last year.

As I highlighted earlier, our postpaid net additions included 2.3 million new 4G devices. Within that total, more than 1 million were 4G smartphones and 1.2 million were 4G tablets. Postpaid phone net adds totaled a positive 304,000 as the 1 million new 4G smartphones were partially offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones.

For the third straight quarter, we had Company record-setting tablet net adds. While 4G smartphones provide the highest value, tablets provided very good incremental value through increased data consumption and lower churn at the account level. Tablets also have a lower cost subsidy than smartphones. We see tablets as a highly profitable growth opportunity with significant headroom in terms of further penetration. Our postpaid tablet base is only 5.4 million, so we have a great opportunity with these devices to generate growth in 2014 and beyond.

Turning now to customer upgrades, our postpaid upgrade rate increased sequentially to 7.1% for the quarter. Once again these were high-quality upgrades. About 90% of all upgrades in the quarter were smartphones. Consistent with our plan to drive 4G smartphone penetration, about 1.4 million or 23% of our smartphone upgrades were from basic phones. About half of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G, which we monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.

Next, let's turn to slide 10 and take a look at device activations and our continued progress in terms of 4G adoption and usage.

Postpaid device activations, which we include both gross adds and upgrades, increased both sequentially and year-over-year. Second-quarter activations totaled 11.1 million, up 10.2%. Smartphone activations totaled 8.3 million, 92% of which were 4G. Our smartphone penetration increased to nearly 75% of our total phones. We ended the quarter with 63.5 million smartphones and about 69% of those were 4G.

So we still have about 20 million 3G smartphones and almost 22 million basic phones in our base, which provides us with a good upgrade opportunity.

Our overall 4G device penetration continues to steadily increase. At the end of the second quarter, nearly 55% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G, up from 33% a year ago. Data and video usage on our network continues to rise. Currently about 76% of total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.

We carry more traffic on our wireless network than any of our competitors. This network advantage continues to be acknowledged by national surveys from widely recognized third-party organizations. More importantly, our own stringent drive-testing shows that we are continuing to improve our network performance.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with a review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 11. In the consumer business, we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS. In the second quarter, consumer revenue growth was 5.3%, making it eight consecutive quarters of growth in excess of 4%. Mass markets, which include small business, grew 4.2%. FiOS now represents 75% of consumer revenue and we are sustaining strong double-digit revenue growth.

In the second quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 13.4%, driven by customer additions, pricing actions, and Quantum penetration. We continue to see strong adoption of Quantum as 55% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribe to the higher speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.

We continue to enrich the customer value proposition and drive investment returns by creating new and innovative services on our FiOS platform. We recently introduced FiOS Quantum TV with enhanced features and functionality in terms of storage, recording capabilities, and control of content. While still in the early stages, we are pleased with the initial adoption of this differentiated TV viewing experience by existing and new customers.

In our FiOS markets, we continue to focus on adding quality customers and generating profitable growth in a very competitive market environment. In broadband, we added 139,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the second quarter and now have 6.3 million subscribers representing 40% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers in the quarter were a positive 46,000.

In FiOS video, we added 100,000 new subscribers in the quarter so we now have 5.4 million subscribers representing 35% penetration. During the quarter, we also converted about 70,000 customers from copper to fiber. This network initiative continues to be important as we systematically upgrade our network and provide higher quality of service.

Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services, which result in additional recurring revenue.

Let's turn to slide 12 and review our overall Wireline segment revenue and profitability. In the enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the second quarter, global enterprise revenue declined $70 million or 1.9%. Revenue declines in legacy transport services and CPE continue to outweigh growth in newer and more strategic applications, which are smaller in scale.

Strategic services, which include private IP, Ethernet, data center, cloud, security, and managed services grew 3%. In our global wholesale business, quarterly revenues declined $92 million or 5.5%. While we continue to see healthy demand for Ethernet services, positive growth continues to be more than offset by price compression, technology migration, and other secular challenges.

As I highlighted earlier, total Wireline growth turned positive this quarter. Looking ahead, we expect to continue to see some fluctuations in year-over-year growth rates. We are making progress but are not satisfied. We have much more to do here.

We are focused on continuous improvement, particularly in driving operating efficiencies. Wireline EBITDA increased 4.9% and the EBITDA margin expanded 100 basis points in the quarter to 23.2%. We continue to target increased Wireline EBITDA and margin expansion in 2014.

As Lowell and I have both stated, we continually look for opportunities to streamline the business and monetize nonstrategic assets. To that end, on July 1, we closed a transaction for the sale of a unit within our public sector business with revenues of about $600 million in 2013, a majority of which was equipment.

Let's move next to our summary slide. As always, the foundation of our success is the steady and consistent investment in networks and platforms. These networks and platforms form the building blocks for the innovative products and services that will fuel our growth and improve the customer experience. Our Wireless and Wireline networks continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage.

We had a strong first half of 2014 with consolidated revenue growth of 5.2% and a 36% adjusted EBITDA margin representing 90 basis points of margin expansion. We continue to deliver high quality double-digit earnings growth and we have a much stronger cash position with the full access to Wireless cash flows. We have great confidence heading into the second half of the year and we remain on track to achieve our revenue growth, margin expansion, and capital spending targets for the year.

We have strong momentum in Wireless and expect to build on that strength, driving further penetration of 4G smartphones and tablets, while extending our network leadership position in 4G LTE.

In FiOS, we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with the superior Quantum broadband and video product. In the enterprise space, we will continue to aggressively market key platforms, demonstrating that we have a unique set of capabilities to provide for customer solutions.

As always, we will remain extremely focused on profitable revenue growth and will continue to drive network and cost structure improvements, utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. David, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. So one in Wireless and one in Wireline, if I may. Wireless postpaid account growth re-accelerated in 2Q. What do you think drove that rebound in account growth? You said you've had some strong momentum. Can we expect that to continue for the rest of the year? Then in Wireline, revenue was positive for the first time in years and margins improved more than we expected. What should we look for there going forward for both revenue and margins? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the account growth, look, I think it was a number of things. I think the key to us right now is I would center around customer choice. We are giving our customers the choice to select what best fits them, whether it's the Edge program or it's the legacy adoption of a subsidy model. As you can see from a service revenue growth performance, we are really centered around driving the attachment rate of devices, generating more data on the individual network.

So we are attracting customers to our network based on its performance. You can tell that from a customer choice perspective many of our customers selected to stay with the legacy subsidy model. As I said my prepared remarks, our take rate was only 18% for the quarter. I know I said in the first quarter I expected that to accelerate to 30% with the introduction of indirect channels and the competitive environment. But during the holiday season, we really stuck with our game of giving customers the choice of that Edge program. But we ran a lot of promotions around handsets related to Mother's Day and Father's Day and I think that drove significant traffic to our stores.

So from here you should expect the same thing going into the third quarter that we will continue to address that marketplace.

As far as our base goes, we saw great progress in our base by really reducing the churn and as I said before, we were going to systematically address our base and take care of the customers who were coming out of contract, and we felt that with churn to go somewhere else, we proactively went after those customers and made sure that they were satisfied with their pricing model and with their experience and I think that proved to be the right model for us.

I think we also addressed our basic to smartphone customer base by having a very good quarter this quarter of 1.4 million phones from basic phones up into the 4G smartphone category and also 3G to 4G smartphones. So when you consolidate all of this with the excellent tablet growth quarter we had -- and again I think tablets are extremely good for the industry, not just for Verizon and from an industry perspective, I think everybody will see the same thing that says these tablets are a lower subsidy. They reduce churn in the account level so we see that when someone has a tablet in the account, their churn is lower than the overall churn of the normal customer base. This device drives incremental revenue from an access standpoint.

But more importantly I think and I will give you a data point here, these 4G tablets drive more usage on the network than a 3G smartphone. So when you consolidate that into an account level pricing arrangement, customers buy up because they are using more data. So this is all good and then of course as we mentioned in the beginning from a service revenue perspective and account growth, machine-to-machine is becoming a more important role there.

So I will stop there. I'm sure we will have more questions around Wireless.

From a Wireline perspective, I guess I would put it this way. FiOS continues to be the driver of the Wireline revenue growth, continued to center around our pricing actions on the FiOS platform, continued to innovate and move people into our Quantum broadband, which provides an incremental increase to us. We launched our Quantum TV, which we are very excited with the preliminary results of that into our existing customers and new customers coming to Verizon FiOS.

Then I think also we can't eliminate the copper migrations, because again as we migrate a customer, after we migrate them, there is a very good sell up opportunity within FiOS, and we see that those customers' ARPU increased significantly moving from copper technology over to fiber technology. So again, I think that really fueled the Wireline growth.

As far as the actual increase in revenue, I don't want to discount this because it is a landmark for quite some time but I think we had a lot of good things happen this quarter. We saw better performance in the enterprise space and especially within the wholesale space but I would also caution that some of this was one time. Both with Ethernet connection and fiber to the cell programs when we have strong volumes, which we did in the second quarter, there is a nonrecurring charge that comes with those and that fueled some of the one-time gains here. I expect some of this to carry to third quarter.

But as we said at the beginning of the quarter, you should view the Wireline revenue growth as more of a flat year this year and I think that going from a 0.4 decrease last quarter to a 0.3 increase this quarter I think you will see us fluctuate between those two for the remainder of the year.

So, Phil, I will stop there. Thanks for the question.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: David, let's take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning, Fran. If I could just ask a couple questions. First on the Wireless side, with respect to phone adds, should that follow some of the historical -- I guess you call it seasonality that you've seen in the past where I think last year you talked about increasing add performance as you moved through each quarter?

On the strategic side, could you talk about maybe what else Verizon could consider from an asset optimization perspective? Maybe just an update on how things like VDMS and connected car are doing? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Michael. On the phone net adds, obviously again as I said, we came out strong during the marketing periods of Mother's Day and Father's Day and normally the second quarter is always better than the first quarter. I think that through this year of obviously for the back half of this year, we are going to have several dynamic devices come to market that will certainly fuel for the industry a lot of opportunity for growth here. So I think from our perspective, we will stay to our game plan. I'm not going to predict at this point what net adds will be from a phone net add for the third quarter that has a lot around the competitive environment and customer base. But I would anticipate that you will see strong performance from Verizon Wireless.

As far as our other strategic areas, so Verizon Digital Media Services launched their commercial service this year. We have a number of customers who are under contract and we are actually starting to generate revenue off of that platform. It's early stages here. There's a lot of opportunity within that platform and we will continue to move on that strategy.

As far as telematics goes, this goes into our machine-to-machine category and as I said in my prepared remarks here, I will tell you this was one of the highest connection quarters we had from a machine-to-machine on a companywide basis, which would include Verizon Wireless, Hughes Telematics, and some of our enterprise customers. That fueled that 50% year-over-year growth. So machine-to-machine continues to be a critical component.

I would also tell you if you have had a chance to visit one of our destination stores with Verizon Wireless, you immediately walk in the store and you can visually see all of the technology around gaming and music and fitness that can be connected to our network. These things are being sold quite substantially on a quarterly basis through our Verizon Wireless distribution stores.

So again, this is a very important category I think not only for us but for the industry and as we have continually said, we believe that machine-to-machine will be a future growth engine for us for years to come and that is consistent with our strategy.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much, good morning. Fran, you talked about the strong cash flow in the quarter. It looks like there's some opportunity potentially for bonus depreciation to be extended again. You had $6 billion of cash on the balance sheet here. It looks like you are doing some refis on your balance sheet. Can you just talk about your overall financial strategy, look at an opportunity here to delever a little bit more to refi, but there's also spectrum auctions coming in, and how that all plays into dividend policy? Given the 20% plus EPS growth, is there an opportunity here despite the leverage to maybe see faster dividend growth? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. On the cash flow, yes, obviously we have some significantly strong cash flow here and obviously we said that at the onset of acquiring Verizon Wireless, that we would get 100% ownership of those cash flows. As I said at the beginning of this year, look, the strategy right now for us is to build cash on the balance sheet, to prepare for the AWS auction that's coming in November and that is the strategic initiative we had moving into this year.

So we have gross debt at about the same level. Now that has -- came down from a high of $114 billion when we closed the Vodafone transaction. That's at $110 billion but you see us accumulating that cash on the balance sheet to prepare for the auction.

As far as the overall refinancing of long-term debt here, you have seen us be very proactive in the marketplace, taking the opportunity of the low interest rate market, repositioning the debt that we borrowed at the close and repositioning our towers so we are strategically trying to push out the long-term debt longer at a more fixed, lower rate than we had and we will continue to work those towers into the future.

I really won't talk about our future plans at this point. It would be inappropriate to do that.

As far as bonus depreciation goes, look, I am optimistic but I am not, because here we sit in July. There's not much activity moving around this. There's many things that the government has to deal with including the Highway Bill that is pertinent to us because of pension smoothing that's included in that bill. There's also the Internet Freedom Act that has to get passed or else consumers are going to be detrimented here at the end of this year. Then of course we have the overall tax reform and bonus depreciation.

So look, I think we will have to wait to see but as the year runs out, bonus depreciation becomes less and less impactful. So we are hopeful that the government will do the right thing here to stimulate the economy and investment around this, but it's hard for me to predict that. So at this point we are not counting on any decrease in our Federal tax payment because of bonus depreciation. As I said at the beginning of the year, this was about $1 billion of incremental tax impact to us by not having that bonus depreciation.

As far as dividend policy goes, look I think both Lowell and I have reiterated that we understand the dividend policy is important. Our Board of Directors understands the dividend policy is important. But it is a Board of Director decision, so I can't sit here today and tell you what that policy will be, but we do understand it's important and I think we have reflected our Board has been very aggressive in our dividend policy over the last seven years and so I think that should set the stage for the future.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, thanks for taking the question. I guess two if I could, just first, Fran, obviously there's a lot of focus on the Wireless service margin this quarter. From the comments last quarter that there was an expectation that we were going to get a huge increase in the installment payment plan take rate, there was an equivalent expectation that we were going to get a lot of upfront revenue recognition and that would have helped the margins a lot. But that obviously didn't really take place. At 18% take rate, that probably gave you a couple hundred million dollars relative to Street expectations.

You said that the installment payment plan impact was about the same this quarter as last quarter but it was net of the service price discounts. Could you parse that out between the impact that you took from a cash perspective of giving lower prices versus the revenue benefit noncash that you got from the upfront accounting-related issues that go into the installment payment plan?

I guess the second question would be more of a strategic one. I know you guys have been working on video and pushing video through the wireless network from a TV Anywhere perspective, buying content, partnering with people through the last couple of years. Could you talk a little bit about with the talk now of consolidation in the content environment how your strategy is unfolding, how you are working to try to bring video content into the wireless environment so you can monetize it over the 4G network? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. Look, on the service margin I think here's the way I would answer this is that we produced a 50.3% margin on extremely high volume growth under a subsidy model. And I think that's the key for this quarter. So we really didn't get much benefit from the Edge program because the take rate was only 18%. We said that the billings around Edge were $180 million so you can do the backwards math there. But if you look at the actual EBITDA impact of Edge I said was similar to the first quarter, as far as the pricing refresh that we did in the first quarter to respond to the competitive environment, again there is some impact there from dilution on customers that are moving and that we are as I said, addressing from a churn perspective. But this is all good for us because we maintain those customers on an appropriate plan. They stay with Verizon Wireless. They are adding tablets. They are increasing their ARPU again.

So the way I would venture to say on this one without getting into too much math on service revenue pricing and so forth, if you take the $180 million and add that to the ARPA, I think you come up with a number that's significantly higher than the 4.7% from a recurring revenue standpoint, if you will. So I think from a 50.3% quarter based on the growth that we had on a subsidy model, I think it's just an outstanding quarter for us from an overall profitability on Verizon Wireless. So I will stand on that one and leave it at that.

As far as content goes, look, I think we have demonstrated through our NFL agreement, some of our IndyCar agreements, and some other agreements that we have around some sporting networks that we will continue to search for those opportunities that make content available to our Wireless customers without a linear TV or satellite TV subscription. And I think that is important for the wireless user. As we see more and more of the younger generation are cutting the cord on their home and want their content either via the Internet or Wireless. That is the strategy that we hold.

If you are asking we do we need to own the content, we continue to position ourselves that we believe we do not need to own content to be successful in this ecosystem, that we just need to get the rights for that content. We understand that content providers want to be paid for those rights and as long as that is a workable commercial model for us, then we will continue on that strategy.

I would also highlight that one of the big things here that's coming to market is of course multicast, which will really enhance the experience for our customers around watching video and also extremely efficient for the wireless industry to provide that video through their network without consuming a lot of spectrum and a lot of capacity.

So we will start to embed chips in our handsets here at the back half of this year. The network will be ready by the end of the third quarter to actually launch multicast. We won't go commercial with that until 2015 but the network will be ready and it's a matter of getting the handsets in customers' hands and then obviously getting the content, which we demonstrated with the Super Bowl this past January for those types of events that we think will be very, very -- really consumed by the consumer on real-time live-type events.

So more to come around the whole video strategy of Wireless, but I think the breakthrough point here will be once multicast technology is up and running and launched.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Great. Thanks, guys. Fran, can you give us a sense of what percentage of your postpaid base takes a 10 gigabyte or larger bucket and maybe how that has changed over time? Just trying to get a sense of the upside as you sell more tablets into the base.

And then on the Wireline side, it's more of a follow-up. You saw 100 basis points year-over-year improvement in margins. But you did talk about some one-timers that drove the revenues. Did that also affect the margins or is this 100 basis point improvement sort of a good run rate for what we can expect for the second half of the year? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First on the 10 gigabyte plan, we don't disclose where our customers sit within the bands, but what I will tell you is that we have quarter-to-quarter over the last three quarters seen an increase in the amount of customers taking the 10 gigabyte plan and pricing up. So we watch on a quarterly basis the number of customers that buy down in data bundles and buy up in data bundles. And over the last several quarters we have had a significant net positive in buying up in data bundles.

So from that perspective, the takeaway will be is that we continue to see an increase in customers buying up in their data bundles and that includes the 10 gigabyte plan.

As far as the Wireline margin, look, we have said from the very beginning of this year, Lowell and I were very opportunistic on increasing the Wireline margin. Now some of this is seasonality. Second quarter is always good. Third quarter tends to have some seasonality into it. But look overall, I think you should see that we are moving the Wireline business in the right direction from a profitability standpoint. And there are a lot of things that we still need to work on. Obviously as I said, FiOS is the big driver on the topline. Copper migrations continues to be an important strategic initiative for us.

But I don't want to downplay the fact that our VLSS, we've been at this for two years and we are now starting to see the benefits of a lot of these projects around efficiencies and cost-cutting starting to come through. So again, that is part of this. You should see us improve our productivity especially around the new Quantum TV, where we can put a media server into the home and start to get some real efficiencies on the install process and we think that will happen entering in 2015. So again, I think that is part of it.

The other thing too is we can't lose sight of the fact that we continue to look at this portfolio and as I said in my prepared remarks, we did divest of a branch of our public sector business, which was about $600 million in revenue last year. So that will -- you will see the impact of that going into the third quarter. So we will lose that revenue in third quarter, so that's going to show up in our public sector business.

But from an overall margin standpoint, that's going to help the profitability of this Company. This is again looking at nonstrategic businesses that are what I would say is not our niche in the business and we need to divest of them. Lowell and I continue to look at things that we can divest of that are best for overall shareholder value and we will continue with that.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Fran, just thinking about the net add numbers, the 2.3 million 4G LTE postpaid versus the 1.4 overall, could you just sort of map us through what you are seeing as far as basic and feature phone sub losses or migration? You talked about migrations but just what you're seeing just from a pressure standpoint from competitors.

Then secondly on FiOS, I know you've targeted MDUs more recently. What you are seeing with respect to changing video behaviors among that youth demographic and maybe just a comment on what kind of returns you guys get on a broadband-only sub? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Let me start with the MDU side. From an MDU perspective, look, this continues to be one of our strongest penetration gains. And as I've said before, New York City is still our lowest penetrated market but it is our highest year-over-year gain. A lot of this has to do with MDUs but this is a challenging business because the average tenant of an MDU in New York I think the last time I looked was eight months. So these units change and of course the strategy, part of this strategy is to accumulate the new residents coming in to continue to use the FiOS demand. But obviously within this younger generation, a year ago we tested the ability to have them select whether they wanted large TV bundles and lower Internet speeds or high Internet speeds and lower TV bundles, and what we saw is the majority of these said -- this segment selected the highest speed that they could get and didn't really care about how many TV stations they got because most of them are consuming their video via the Internet.

So again, this is just another position for us of why we have gone to symmetry within our broadband offers. We just launched that this week so you will see that hitting the consumer market with symmetry on all of our broadband offers. We launched it six months ago in our small business segment. So this is again another strategy which we think is important for that generation who really wants the highest speed that they can get and they want the symmetry in that speed. So that will continue to be an overall concentration for us.

As far as the handsets and all, look, I think that you can probably do the backwards math here. We said that we added 2.3 million 4G LTE phones overall. We said that we had 1 million 4G smartphones net adds for the quarter. So with a 304,000 net number, the majority of those losses were basic phones and then the rest were made up with 3G. So again, you can see that the basic phone category or I would consider this the lower end phone category continues to be the category that we lose. But I will say that we made substantial improvement from what we saw in the first quarter with all of the pricing actions, the retention tools that we put in place and some of the new pricing tools that we put in place. So overall, I think we significantly improved and that came through in the operating results of Verizon Wireless.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just a quickie on the EIP. Could you just give us a sense for how that paced through the quarter? Was it accelerating throughout? And then what should we think about for the full year on the EIP uptake? What's your expectation?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think I would put it this way. What I saw was in our store channel it was pretty much relatively flat. The increase came through the indirect channel when we launched that. Right now I would say that I think one important piece of information here as well is that on the front line, our sales representatives make the same compensation whether they sell an Edge plan or legacy subsidy model. So there was no difference in their compensation. So again, this comes down to the important ingredient that this is truly a customer choice. The rep shows them both models and the customer chooses.

So as far as going forward, look, I think that we are on pace to be somewhere between this 18% to 20%. But again when you think about the new -- all of the new phones that are coming in the back half of the year through the indirect channel, this could escalate a bit on us. The competitive environment has a lot to do with this but right now under current course and current environment, I think that the 18% to 20% is really where we sit.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks. With Edge adoption at just 18%, fall and year-over-year ARPU seems to imply a repricing of non-Edge base. I think you said you had some churn mitigation promotions in the quarter. Could you talk a little bit about that and also where do you expect year-over-year ARPA to stabilize?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think, Kevin, as I said at the beginning, I think you have to do a little bit of backwards math here because the Edge plan if you take that $180 million billing number that I gave you and you look at ARPA, I think what you will see is if you calculate back in the recurring monthly equipment revenue, which in essence would've been service revenue, I think your percentage increase would be relatively flat with the first quarter and some past quarters.

So again, I think that the service revenue impact and the ARPA impact is really Edge-related. Now there is some of course service pricing discounts in there and we are moving as we said proactively some of our customers who are out of contract and we think that they have a high propensity to churn. We are proactively moving them to the Edge pricing but we are doing it very, very systematically and so there will be a little bit of pressure there. But I think if you do that backwards math that I gave you, I think you will get to the true numbers of what the ARPA growth would have been with this recurring equipment revenue in it.

KEVIN SMITHEN: How should we think about the AWS refinancing? Will this be an additional capital raise or funded out of cash on hand? How should we think about your sort of leverage targets with the spectrum auction? It sounds like you want to be very aggressive with that.

FRAN SHAMMO: I think the way you want to think about this is it is an auction so I'm not going to talk about how we think we are going to pay for that auction because I'm not going to give anybody information of how much I'm willing to spend for the auction. So I think we will just wait there. As I said the strategy is to build cash, prepare for the auction and we will execute accordingly. So more to come on that in the latter back of the year.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Schildkraut, Evercore.

JONATHAN SCHILDKRAUT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Great, thanks. Two if I may. First, just in terms of the outlook on the topline for the remainder of the year, you guys have had a very strong first half of the year, up almost 6% revenue growth year-over-year in the second quarter and the outlook for the year is only about 4%. I'm wondering if that is just a conservative stance at this point in the year or if there's something that we should look out for in particular as we examine our back half of the year projections?

Then yet another question around EIP. I was wondering if we could get a sense as to where the receivable currently stood or maybe the change in receivable quarter over quarter? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Jonathan. On the 4%, being the CFO, we generally are conservative so I will stick to the guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year with topline growth of 4% plus. So I will stick to that.

As far as the balance sheet goes, if you look at our balance sheet, the change in the AR is directly related to the Edge program so you can look at that change and pretty much come to your answer.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Last question.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Great, thank you for taking the question. Fran, you mentioned a lot about the AWS-3 auction. I know there's a lot of complications and a lot of blurriness around it but I have not heard you talk openly about the broadcaster incentive auction. Your closest peer obviously made a big monetary number or put a big monetary number with that. And I just was wondering your current thoughts as you stand here today.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. Look, we are focused on the AWS-3 auction and the reason we are focused on that is it will start November 13. Deposits will be required. We actually know exactly what the rules are. The procedures for that auction will be announced sometime in the next coming weeks. So that is really the focal point for us.

As far as the broadcast spectrum goes, look, currently there are no final adopted rules on this, so it's hard for us to sit here and make a comment on something that has not been finalized. So I think that would be premature for us. I know what others have done. But look, we are focused on AWS. We will get through that, we will see what the broadcast spectrum final rules are and then you will hear more from us when that happens. But at this point I'm not going to make any more comments around the broadcast.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: That is all the time we have for questions today but before we end the call, I would like to turn it back over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Just a couple quick closing comments. So look, we had an extremely strong first half of 2014 in terms of our volume growth and financial performance. Importantly we closed the Vodafone transaction and now have sole ownership of the Wireless asset.

Through the first half of this year, we have exceeded our revenue growth targets and delivered strong earnings growth. We have great momentum heading into the second half and we are competing well in all of our key strategic areas.

Our cash generation is very strong and we have great confidence in our ability to execute on our strategy and grow this business profitably while making the necessary capital investments to position us for the future. We are excited about our growth opportunities and we will continue to invest, innovate, and deliver for our customers, our shareholders, and our employees.

Thank you so much for joining us today and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140724ea7m000m9
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,344 words
   PD
24 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, David. Good morning and welcome to our first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website. The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our quarterly performance, I would like to cover a few details about our reported results. For this discussion, let's turn to slide 3.

For the first quarter we reported earnings of $1.15 per share on a GAAP basis. Our reported results reflect a partial quarter with 55% ownership of Verizon Wireless and just over five weeks with full ownership since the transaction to acquire Vodafone's stake closed on February 21. The weighted average common shares outstanding for the first quarter were 3.430 billion, given the issuance of 1.275 billion new shares of Verizon as part of the deal consideration.

The timing of the closing had no effect on our consolidated income statement or Wireless segment above the operating income line since we have always had operating control of Verizon Wireless. All of the post-closing effects of full ownership are below the operating income line. Our reported first-quarter EPS of $1.15 includes several non-operational items that I would like to review.

The first item is a gain on the sale of our minority interest in Vodafone Omnitel. This resulted in a one-time, after-tax gain of approximately $1.9 billion or $0.55 per share. This is a non-cash item as it was part of the transaction consideration.

The next item is a non-operational charge related to debt redemption. During the first quarter, we announced a partial make-whole redemption and a cash tender offer for various notes with maturities over the next five years and coupons of 5.5% and higher. We redeemed $5.4 billion of notes through the make-whole redemption and tender offer.

The associated net pretax costs were $923 million. After-tax, this resulted in a charge of $575 million or $0.17 per share. We also incurred interest and financing costs related to the wireless transaction.

As we did in the third and fourth quarters, we are excluding these charges from adjusted results for the period January 1 through the February 21 closing. These transaction costs totaled $411 million on a pretax basis, resulting in an after-tax charge of $260 million or $0.08 per share.

Excluding the effect of these three non-operational items, adjusted earnings per share was $0.84 for the first quarter, compared with $0.68 a year ago or growth of 23.5%. Adjusted EPS of $0.84 reflects 55% ownership of Verizon Wireless for the period January 1 through February 21 and full ownership for the remainder of the quarter. Of course, future quarters will include 100% of the Wireless net income and access to all the Wireless cash flows.

For an illustrative non-GAAP view of adjusted earnings, assuming full ownership of Verizon Wireless for the entire first quarter, let's take a look at slide 4. The elements for this illustrative view are based on the adjustments in the pro forma financial statements filed with the SEC for the periods ending September 30 and December 31, 2013. We also reviewed these transaction effects on our February 24 call when we provided some guidance for items below operating income.

Adjusted EPS of $0.84 would've been $0.91 per share, assuming 100% ownership of Wireless for the full quarter. Again, on a non-GAAP illustrative basis.

The adjustments required to demonstrate this are relatively straightforward. The 45% of Wireless net income attributable to Vodafone for the period January 1 through February 21 totaled $1.2 billion and would be added to adjusted earnings. The transaction-related costs for the same time period would be subtracted.

Accounting for these effects, adjusted earnings would be $3.8 billion with an effective tax rate of about 35%. The diluted shares outstanding that we used for this illustrative EPS calculation were 4.149 billion shares, which assumes the newly issued shares were outstanding for the entire quarter. In summary, the impact of having 100% ownership of Wireless for only part of the first quarter was worth $0.07 of earnings per share.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. As I stated on our last two conference calls, we have great confidence in our ability to generate strong financial performance in 2014. Over the years, our steady and consistent investments in networks and platforms have supported innovative products and services and fueled our growth.

Our wireless and wireline networks will continue to be the hallmark of our brand and provide the fundamental strength upon which we build our competitive advantage. Now that the wireless transaction is behind us, we have the immediate financial benefit of earnings accretion from the deal and full access to the very significant cash flows of Verizon Wireless. As we have previously stated, we are targeting 4% consolidated top-line growth in 2014, with an expansion of our consolidated EBITDA margin.

The ingredients for success are unchanged: solid operational execution and a disciplined focus on meeting our financial objectives and creating value for our shareholders. With an eventful first quarter behind us, I would say we are off to a strong start.

We maintained our growth momentum and delivered excellent top-line and bottom-line results. While the timing of the Wireless transaction closing caused some reporting complexity, our $0.84 adjusted earnings per share represented growth of 23.5% and would be even greater if you assumed full ownership of Wireless for the entire quarter.

We've consistently delivered high-quality earnings growth with double-digit increases in reported and adjusted earnings per share in eight of the last nine quarters. Our cash flow generation in the quarter was also impressive and we continued to invest in our networks and platforms.

Our Wireless results were very good, with service revenue growth of 7.5% and a service EBITDA margin of 52.1%, an expansion of 170 basis points. In FiOS, our positive revenue growth trends and scale drove a 6.2% increase in consumer revenue. Total Wireline operating revenue declined 0.4% in the quarter, which is our best result in nearly three years.

In terms of profitability, our EBITDA margin was 22.3%, up 90 basis points.

Now let's get into our first-quarter performance in more detail, starting with consolidated results on slide 6.

Total operating revenue grew 4.8% in the first quarter, continuing our consistent top-line growth trend and was our highest growth rate in the past five quarters. Top-line growth was once again driven by Wireless and FiOS. In terms of new revenue streams, machine-to-machine and telematics, while still relatively small, are beginning to emerge and make positive contributions with revenue growth in excess of 40%.

Our focus on operating efficiency and cost controls is enabling our ability to compete effectively and drive consistent, profitable growth. In the first quarter, consolidated operating expenses grew 2%. Operating income growth was 15.1%. We have posted double-digit growth in operating income in eight of the last nine quarters.

Consolidated EBITDA grew 9.3% while our EBITDA margin expanded by 160 basis points to 36.7%. Let's take a look at cash flow results next on slide 7.

When looking at our cash flows, it is important to keep in mind that post-transaction we have immediate access to the full Verizon Wireless cash flows. And apart from a contractual tax distribution in the second quarter for the stub period, we will no longer be making any cash distributions to Vodafone. As a result, the amount of cash available to us will be significantly greater this year.

This is true for the simple reason that under the partnership structure, 45% of excess cash at Wireless would at some point be distributed to Vodafone.

As we discussed on our February 24 call, there will be some lack of comparability between current and prior periods in the statement of cash flows. In 2014, the cash flows from operations line will include higher cash payments for interest and taxes. The cash flows from financing section will have lower cash distributions to Vodafone and higher overall dividend payments to our shareholders due to the increase in shares outstanding.

In the first quarter, cash flows from operations were $7.1 billion, which included an incremental $1.3 billion of cash interest payments and $200 million of pension funding that we did not have in the first quarter of 2013. In spite of these additional uses of cash and higher capital spending, free cash flow totaled $3 billion in the quarter.

For illustrative purposes, free cash flow available to Verizon in the first quarter was more than $1 billion higher than a year ago, assuming that 45% of the free cash flow at Wireless would've been distributed to Vodafone. Again, the point here is more free cash flow available at the corporate level than prior to the transaction, even after higher interest payments and cash taxes.

Capital expenditures in the quarter totaled $4.2 billion, up $548 million with all the increase in Wireless. With our 4G LTE coverage build complete, Wireless spending is now focused on adding capacity and density to our existing coverage and utilizing our AWS spectrum to further optimize the network. As we have previously stated, our estimate for total capital spending in 2014 will be in the range of $16.5 billion to $17 billion.

In addition to the transaction closing, we had a large amount of financing activities in the quarter. At closing, our gross debt was approximately $114 billion. Since then, we announced the make-whole redemption and a tender offer, did some debt restructuring, and had $2.5 billion of notes mature.

We ended the quarter with gross debt of just under $110 billion and net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times. Our balance sheet remains strong and we have the financial flexibility needed to grow the business.

Our priorities for cash utilization are unchanged. We will continue to invest in our networks, acquire spectrum, and return to our pre-transaction credit ratings profile within four to five years. We do not need to execute any major acquisitions to drive our business model. We understand the importance of our dividend and our Board of Directors has shown its support by approving dividend increases in each of the last seven years.

In terms of acquiring new spectrum, we will continue to be opportunistic. Earlier this month we signed agreements to acquire the wireless licenses of Cincinnati Bell along with some tower leases. We will continue to look at the secondary market and we will consider the opportunities in the upcoming FCC auctions.

Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 8.

Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality, reliability, and the overall customer experience. We will continue to build and expand our network advantage in 4G LTE. Our focus is on deploying capital to add density to our network and deliver new services such as VoLTE and multicasting to enrich our customers' wireless experience.

Regardless of what others claim, recent national surveys from widely recognized third-party organizations confirm our leadership. Our own drive testing, which we have been doing for years, shows that we consistently deliver the best customer experience market by market and day by day across the United States.

Total Wireless revenues grew to $20.9 billion, up 6.9% driven by strong service revenue growth of 7.5%. We generated $9.4 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, an increase of 11.3%. Our service EBITDA margin in the quarter was 52.1%.

There has certainly been a lot of investor attention centered on the effects of equipment monthly payment plan options for customers. Let me be very clear and provide the financial impact of our Verizon Edge plans for the first quarter.

As you would expect, the number of customer activations on Edge increased sequentially and is also running ahead of our expectations. The estimated EBITDA benefit from the accounting treatment under these plans was worth about $165 million, which equates to less than 2% of total EBITDA in the quarter. The benefit to our service EBITDA margin was approximately 90 basis points.

While Edge had a favorable effect on profitability, our results demonstrate that we delivered EBITDA growth and margin expansion over and above the benefits of equipment monthly payment plans. Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account, beginning on slide 9.

Service revenue in the first quarter was driven by 4G smartphone adoption and tablet growth and increasing data usage. In mid-February, we introduced our More Everything plans, which provide more value through simplified data allowances and more choice for customers.

In addition, we revised our monthly pricing under Verizon Edge for customers who buy their devices on installment payments. Last week we extended this reduced monthly pricing to customers who are currently out of contract. These pricing actions improve the customer value proposition and will help drive further penetration of 4G smartphones and tablets and stimulate usage on our very cost-effective 4G LTE network.

Retail postpaid revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 6.3% to nearly $160 per month in the first quarter. The lower monthly pricing under the Edge plans had a minimal impact on ARPA this quarter. Going forward, continued Edge adoption will likely have a greater impact on ARPA due to the shift from service to equipment revenue.

Our reduced monthly pricing for out-of-contract customers will also affect the rate of service revenue growth over time.

We ended the quarter with 35.1 million postpaid accounts and connections per account grew to 2.77, up 3.7% from a year ago. More Everything plan adoption continues and we ended the quarter with 50% of postpaid accounts on these shared data plans. A majority of these accounts are in data tiers of 4 gigabytes or higher and usage continues to drive migration to the higher data tiers.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 10. In the first quarter, postpaid gross adds totaled 3.6 million, up 4.1%. About 56% of our gross adds were smartphones and 33% were tablets and other Internet devices. Retail postpaid churn was 1.07%, up 6 basis points year over year.

On a net basis we added 549,000 new retail connections in the first quarter. Postpaid net adds were 539,000 and prepaid were 10,000. At the end of March, we had 103.3 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connections base reached 97.3 million and prepaid totaled just over 6 million.

The first-quarter postpaid add mix included 866,000 4G smartphones and a record 634,000 tablets. We also had 56,000 other connected device adds, primarily home phone connect. These additions were offset by net declines in basic and 3G smartphones resulting in negative total phone net adds.

Our postpaid upgrade rate was 6.5% in the quarter. More than 88% of these upgrades were smartphones. Consistent with our plan to drive smartphone penetration and 4G adoption about 1.5 million or 27% of our smartphone upgrades were from basic phones. More than 50% of the remaining smartphone upgrades were 3G to 4G, which we monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.

Next, let's turn to slide 11 and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE.

Postpaid device activations, which include both gross adds and upgrades, totaled 9.9 million, an increase of 2%. We had 7.6 million smartphone activations, of which nearly 90% were 4G. Smartphone penetration increased to 72% of our total phones.

We ended the quarter with 61.3 million smartphones and about 64% of those were 4G. So we still have about 22 million 3G smartphones and a little more than 23 million basic phones in our base, which provides us with a good opportunity to move customers up to a 4G smartphone.

We had our best tablet quarter ever, activating 814,000 postpaid tablets, virtually all of which were 4G. This is more than double the amount from the first quarter last year and about 3% more than the fourth quarter. Our postpaid tablet base now stands at 4.3 million, so again we have a great opportunity to expand this category and generate growth in 2014 and beyond.

Overall, 4G device penetration continues to steadily increase. At the end of the first quarter, 49% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G, up from 28% a year ago. Data and video usage on our network continues to rise. Currently about 73% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.

We will continue to focus on extending our network advantage, investing to add density and to optimize our 4G LTE network, ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability they expect from our network.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting with the review of our consumer and mass markets revenue performance on slide 12.

In the consumer business, we continue to see positive revenue trends driven by FiOS. For the last seven quarters, consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%. In the first quarter consumer revenues were up 6.2%. Mass markets, which include small business, grew 4.9%.

FiOS now represents about 74% of consumer revenue and we are sustaining strong double-digit growth. In the first quarter, FiOS consumer revenue grew 14.6%, driven by customer additions, pricing actions, and Quantum penetration. About 51% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribe to Quantum, with speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.

We continue to focus on adding quality customers and generating profitable growth. Residential broadband and video are very competitive markets and we continue to be disciplined and rational in our approach to customer acquisition. In broadband, we added 98,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the first quarter and now have 6.2 million subscribers, representing just under 40% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers in the quarter were a positive 16,000.

In FiOS Video we added 57,000 new subscribers in the quarter. Total FiOS Video customers reached 5.3 million, representing 35% penetration.

We also continue to make steady progress with fiber migration. During the quarter we converted about 78,000 customers from copper to superior fiber technology. This network initiative is important as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies.

We have begun to see the benefits from a maintenance perspective in what was one of the worst winters in recent memory in the Northeast. Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide a long-term opportunity for customers to purchase FiOS services, which will result in additional recurring revenue.

Let's turn to slide 13 and review our overall Wireline segment revenue and profitability.

In the enterprise space, we continue to work through secular and economic challenges. In the first quarter, global enterprise revenue declined $164 million or 4.4%. Revenue declines in legacy transport services and CPE continued to outweigh growth in newer applications, which are smaller in scale.

Strategic services, which include private IP, Ethernet, data center, cloud, security, and managed services, grew 1.8%. This category includes some revenue from the public sector, where we continue to experience revenue pressure. In general, enterprise customers continue to be more focused on improving their cost structure rather than investing for growth, which creates top-line pressure for us.

In our global wholesale business, quarterly revenues declined $108 million or 6.4%. While we had healthy demand in Ethernet services in the quarter, it was not enough to offset the impacts of technology migration, price compression, and other secular challenges.

From an overall Wireline perspective, total operating revenues were down 0.4%. EBITDA was $2.2 billion, up 3.4%, resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.3% for the quarter. Our strategic investments in network technology enable us to deliver reliable and high-quality services and solutions to consumers, small businesses, and enterprise customers. As we scale these key products and services, they will improve our overall revenue mix and drive further operating efficiency.

We are focused on network operating efficiency through improvements in service provisioning and dispatch and repair rates. We remain confident in our ability to increase Wireline EBITDA and expand the margin in 2014. Our financial performance in the first quarter was a good start.

Let's move next to our summary slide. We are off to a strong start, with a 4.8% increase in consolidated revenue and 160 basis point EBITDA margin expansion. We continue to post high-quality, double-digit adjusted earnings growth and have a strong cash position with full access to growing Wireless cash flows. We are on track to achieve our revenue growth, margin expansion, and capital spending targets for the year.

We have good momentum in Wireless and expect to build on that strength, driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE. In FiOS, we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with the superior broadband product and our recently introduced FiOS Quantum TV service.

In the enterprise space, we will continue to aggressively market key platforms, demonstrating that we have a unique set of capabilities to provide customer solutions. We remain focused on cost structure improvements to drive productivity and operating efficiencies throughout the entire business, utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. David, we are now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks. So I guess if we just talk about subscribers on both sides; churn up in Wireless leading to some handset share losses this quarter and FiOS softer, too. You seem to be responding to T somewhat with the Edge price cuts recently and allowing people to trade down. How should we think about the impact to ARPA in 2Q and beyond from these trade-down effects?

Then what about responding to cable on the FiOS side? Are you happy with the revenue ramp due to rate increases or do you try harder on subs as we go forward, too? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Good morning, Phil. Look, let's talk about the subs and the churn and then we can talk about the Edge pricing.

First off, I think if you put this quarter in perspective, coming into this quarter from the fourth quarter and the end of the first-quarter call here or the fourth quarter, we talked about how we would take a very rational, disciplined approach in responding to the competitive marketplace. And that's what you saw us do through the quarter.

Now having done that, through January and February we saw a lot of pressure around our basic phone customer base, which is why we launched our low-end 4G price point on More Everything to give those basic customers a chance and a view into getting over to a smartphone on our 4G network. And we saw the improvements through the month of March.

In addition, if you look at our tablet sales, we said coming into this year that tablets would be a major growth trajectory for the entire industry and I think that is what you are seeing. You're going to see that this is a very underpenetrated marketplace and the more we drive tablets into our 4G network, the more revenue stimulation we create. So we had one of the best tablet quarters ever even without the Christmas season from the fourth quarter.

When you look at the churn, the churn was definitely impacted via the basic phone customer base. We actually had one of the best quarters ever, adding 866,000 4G smartphones to our base, and then another 634 tablets.

So the net effect of the loss was mainly within the basic phone base and some 3G smartphone customers, which led us to then refresh our shared pricing to More Everything. Then we also had to do some response to some of the Edge pricing that the competitive marketplace offered in order for us to be competitive within those high-end data plans.

However, I think it's also important to state that these installment plans, or Edge plan, is a very profitable plan to us. So as we manage the business through prepaid reseller, postpaid subscribers, whether they go on a subsidy model or on an installment sale model, these are all accretive to the business and very profitable plans.

If you look at the ARPA, obviously ARPA, since it does not include equipment revenue, the increase in the take rate of Edge will definitely have an impact on that metric. Do I expect the Edge take rate to increase? Yes, because if you look at the first quarter, most of the Edge product was sold through our direct channel and we will be expanding that to the indirect channel coming here at the very end of the first quarter, mainly in the second quarter.

So the Edge take rate will increase, which will have an impact on service revenue and the ARPA metric. We will have to think about that going into the second quarter as how we report that, but again I feel very confident in coming out of the first quarter with 7.5% service revenue growth and the ARPA growth.

Now as far as the competitive pressures and some of the other moves we've made, look, this goes back to when we first went to shared pricing. We said that it would be dilutive in the short term, but it would drive usage on our network. By moving to Edge and out of contract -- and it's a very small base of customers because you have to be on More Everything and included in the base -- but obviously in the short term this could create some revenue pressure for us.

But, again, it's moving these customers to higher data usage plans, which drive more usage, which in essence drives more revenue. So the guidance we have given you I stand firm on because we have considered all of this into our forecast. I don't really anticipate changing any of that at this point in time.

If I move over to the cable environment with FiOS and the net adds, there were two really main things here that happened. First off, we did a price increase in the fourth quarter and every time we do a price increase we always see some pressure in the churn in the following quarter. But also we had probably one of the worst winters on record here and people did not want us in their houses to install FiOS.

But I think a couple things to point out. One is the competitive pressure from cable did increase in the first quarter. We did not respond immediately because of the environment that we were dealing in with weather. So we waited.

We became more aggressive in March. And I would tell you that exiting the quarter our pipeline has grown and I have a viewpoint that the second quarter will be back on track from a net add perspective. So, Phil, I will leave it at that and hopefully that answers your question.

PHIL CUSICK: That helps. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great, thanks a lot. Good morning, Fran. Just to quickly follow-up on Edge, have you had any change in your view about kind of the sale activity of the Edge product? It seems like T-Mobile and AT&T are pushing these fairly broadly and in the past you sort of said you want to reserve this for your best customers. Any change there?

Then perhaps you could touch a bit more on the network. Where are you on the AWS rollout? Have you solved all the congestion problems you were talking about a couple of quarters ago? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First on Edge, look, this is a customer choice. This is not what I want. It really comes into our customer choices. Again, we are going to allow our customers to choose the right plan for them.

If you look at the economics, it depends what phone you choose. So if you decide to take a free iPhone that is out in the marketplace today, you may be better off going on the subsidy plan for two years, end up paying less over time than the installment plan. If you decide to take a very high-end handset, then you may benefit by going to the installment sale. So I think it's a personal choice.

It also comes down to when do you think you are going to upgrade. If you are a customer that wants to hold your phone on for a two-year period of time or longer, it depends what plan you may choose. If you decide you want to upgrade every year, then obviously the installment plan is the plan that you have to select.

This comes down to personal choice and, again, our sales force is not compensated to drive traffic to any one sort of plan. At the end of the day, it's all about customer satisfaction and treating our customers and the choices that they want. Again, the way I look at this is as we manage the business these plans are all profitable plans to us, so it comes down to customer choice.

On the network side of the house, I think that in my script I was pretty deliberate on making some statements there about some third-party studies that were done in the first quarter and I think that speaks to itself as to where we are with our network. We are through the congestion. The network performance is delivering what we expect it to.

And as you see that in our CapEx spending we are going to be more leveled this year. If you know historically we have always had more of a ramp from the first quarter to the fourth quarter. We will be more level with that.

So we are really concentrating on the density and the diversification of the 4G network, especially in the major cities and that's where we have deployed AWS. We will continue to deploy AWS throughout the year, more into the smaller cities and into the rural markets, but right now the concentration is in the major cities like New York, San Francisco, Chicago, etc.

So, Simon, that I think that handles the question. Thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Fran, I apologize, I have to ask one more on Edge, too, which is that one of the things we saw coming out of the AT&T result was that there's really two parts to these installment plans. One is the mechanical part of changing the accounting where you take some of the service revenue and you put it into equipment revenue and that's the relatively easy part.

Another part of the puzzle, though, was that AT&T was very aggressive at pushing this pricing out to people even if they didn't take the installment payment plan because they felt like it was an immunization tool against incremental competition. So could you kind of share with us what we should be expecting from Verizon in terms of not just how the Edge program is going to unfold, but how you're going to use the Edge pricing as a competitive tool if it all?

Then the second question, if I could, was on the Wireline margin side a pretty strong margin, especially for 1Q which historically has seen lots of headwinds for bonuses and FICA and other things. So I was wondering if you could maybe give us a picture of whether we can use 1Q as a starting point for some of the Six Sigma improvements and stuff that you're working on for the rest of the year. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: All right, David. Good, thanks. On the mechanical side, look, this is a fairly complex accounting for the Edge pricing, but really there's two main components to this.

First is you book up the receivable. You record the revenue over the time, but the amount of revenue that you record is based on the residual value that you assign and the liability that you have set up for that telephone.

I would say that our approach is going to be extremely conservative, so we will probably be recording less revenue up front under the installment sale just so that we can get a feel for what the uncollectability is going to be over time. How much value these phones are going to be worth a year or two years out depending upon how many phones hit the market at the same place. We do think that there could be some saturation effect in the outer years, so we will take a very conservative approach here on the accounting.

As far as the competitive environment, look, I'm not going to speak for anybody else. I think we have shown we will be rational and deliberate on how we respond to the marketplace. We are responding to our customers' request.

This recent move that we made related to allowing out-of-contract subscribers to move over to the Edge pricing I believe is a good move for us, because again it treats our customers the way they want to be treated and it is a retention tool for us. So it will help to deliver a lower churn metric in the future.

And it's up to them whether they want to move. We are not going to deliberately move our customers. It will be totally to their choice. So that's from a competitive environment.

On the Wireline margin, I think that at least everything Lowell and I have been talking about for the last two years is starting to finally come through on the metrics of Wireline. And just a couple things.

I think in the past I would probably be sitting here asking for a pass based on the Northeast corridor storms for the entire winter and one of the worst winters on record. Normally I'd be sitting here talking about repair rates and how much expense we had to incur. And here we sit; with all of the copper-to-fiber migrations that we have done over the last two years, we did another 70,000-plus this quarter. This is really starting to come in through the maintenance side because fiber performs much better during these weather conditions than copper performs.

So I think that all of the Verizon Lean Six Sigma segments -- and I told you I was very confident coming into this year that we could improve the Wireline margin on a year-over-year basis. And I hold to that confidence because of the things that I see between Verizon Lean Six Sigma and also because of the copper-to-fiber migrations that we have able to form.

In addition, of course the good driver of revenue here is through our Quantum products and the uptake of our customers going to the higher speeds and willing to pay more for those higher speeds. Also the congestion in their houses because of the wireless devices they are running off of that Wi-Fi network really demand that fiber into the home that only FiOS can provide. So I think everything together is driving this.

We can talk about the enterprise segment, but as I said coming into the year I think that best we will look at what we did last year. And I think that's where the position will be is we will probably not see any improvement in enterprise in 2014.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Fran, just one thought on smartphones obviously becoming a bigger part of the base. Do you think smartphones are causing shorter handset lives? Meaning as we look at adoption of Edge or other EIP programs, with smartphones needing to be upgraded more often it's actually a better plan for the carriers and particularly for Verizon.

Then secondly on enterprise. If you could just comment -- you made some comments regarding the decline in revenue there. Maybe rank order what you are seeing there with respect to technology change, pricing, and then demand. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay. Look, I think it's way too early to tell yet how the impact of the installment plans will react on the upgrade rate. We have been at this for years and the upgrade rate is pretty steady. We will have fluctuations based on seasonality, but coming out of the first quarter we really didn't see any change in that. But we probably really won't see the impact of early upgrades probably for another six to eight months so I think we're going to have to hold on what the expectation there is.

But I think the other thing, too, though is that, just from an overall product set, smartphones are, as I said coming into the quarter, are going to be a slower portion of the growth I think for the entire industry as we go forward as the penetration grows. But we look to those other facets of the tablets and machine-to-machine and then if you look beyond that with VoLTE and multicast giving our customers even additional features that could potentially drive more usage on the network, so that's really what the future holds for us.

The smartphone category, I do believe that upgrades may increase with Edge, but again I think it's too early to tell.

On the enterprise side, look, I think what we continue to see here is that the United States is the highest corporate taxpayer in the world. And until we fix that situation, with all the discussions in Washington whether extenders will happen, won't happen, whether we will get to tax reform or we won't get to tax reform, there's just too much uncertainty out there for enterprises to really lock down on where they are going in the future.

So I think this is where we are playing right now. The public sector is still a major drag on our results and, as you know, we include the public sector in our enterprise results. That's also now impacting the strategic services because they are also starting to cut and move away from some of the more strategic products.

So I think for this year we just are satisfied with being flat with last year, which is what I came into this year saying. And I think if we can resolve some of the issues and the uncertainties then I think we are on a better path for enterprise. But right now I think we are where we are.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just on the pricing situation, is that a competitive issue or is it just technology change that lowers the price points for the product sets?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, we are extremely competitive and have a great product set in our enterprise space. Obviously if we get into the details, if you look at security and look at our cloud services, they are growing. If you look at the Hughes Telematics platform, that's growing in the enterprise space.

But then we have all this legacy voice and core and even within the IP products, you see the price compression happening on those products. And each year it comes up for renewal, you have a price compression so some of it is competitive.

But we are in an extremely competitive environment and, look, people are just cutting. Enterprises are still focused on cost structure. They are not increasing their investments. They are not increasing their spend. So that is where we sit.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Makes sense, thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning. Fran, I was wondering if we could just take a step back in the Wireline business and just talk a little bit about the homes where you don't have FiOS. I think -- and maybe you can give an update on a number. Maybe roughly 8 million homes where you don't have plans to build FiOS.

What do you do in those markets to stay competitive and to try to improve the financial outlook? Or is that a source of even possible asset optimization at some point? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Mike, thanks. This could be a record quarter since you didn't ask me about net debt on Wireless, so that's a good thing.

Look, on the FiOS and the copper houses, so within the FiOS footprint as we said we now have less than 1 million homes left that are on copper so we will continue to migrate them. Outside of the FiOS footprint, obviously, really we are taking two measures there.

One is via the Wireless portfolio in replacing some of that old voice -- legacy copper voice with our LTE voice product that Wireless has been selling across the nation for almost two years now called Home Phone Connect. Within Wireline, they have a very similar product called Voice Link, which in essence is the same thing, so we will try to replace that copper legacy with those technologies.

But, look, outside this is kind of where you say you will have to nurture it and harvest what you have. We know that we are not going to be able to compete with speed in that environment and we will continue to do the best we can. Now, there will be certain areas, maybe another year or so, where we may look to extend the fiber a bit and include some small businesses, which we compete extremely well in within the FiOS footprint and they are very profitable customers.

But beyond that, Mike, I think we are in harvest mode and we will continue to do the best we can with the technologies we have as alternatives for our customers.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. Fran, just quickly back to Edge if we could. Can you give us a sense of what the take rates you are seeing on smartphone sales these days? I think you said that it increased with the change in pricing, but if you could give us some color there that would be great.

Then maybe the percentage of smartphones now that are on Edge pricing. And then maybe, if possible, how that is going to evolve over time, especially now that you are moving some of the off-contract customers over to the new pricing.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. As far as the take rate on Edge, I would tell you that we were less than 15% in the first quarter from a take rate. I expect that to potentially double with the launch of this payment plan option within our indirect channel.

I would also say that it is going to become more and more difficult for us to separate out and give a normalized basis with and without Edge. The reason I say that is, as we start to launch this in our indirect channel, you are going to get into all kinds of confusion of how the commission works, who bought the phone, who's doing -- we will do the installment on that, but we may not have actually sold the phone to the indirect. They may have bought it outright, so there's implications with how compensation will work.

Although we gave you separate data here in the first quarter because it was easy because it was just within our direct channel, I think that is going to become more complicated going out here. So from a take rate perspective it's hard for me to tell what the take rate will be, but I do believe it will probably double into the second quarter with the launch of our indirect channel, John. That's really all I can talk about on the Edge. It's too early for us to tell what the rate will be.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, but in terms of the percentage of smartphones in the base that are on Edge is it sort of mid-single digits at this point?

FRAN SHAMMO: It's less than 2%.

JOHN HODULIK: Less than 2%, got it, okay. All right, thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much. Fran, two areas I would like to touch on and this is sort of dovetailing on the prior question. You mentioned that Edge penetration will increase, potentially doubling next quarter. I was wondering if you could give us how much of your earnings growth is attributed to sort of your expectations of rising penetration of Edge.

And then secondly, now that you've fully integrated the contribution of the Wireless business from Vodafone, how should we think about the quarterly progression of earnings now that there's a larger portion of your revenues coming from what one could argue is a less fluctuating wireless business, which may now include less contribution to subsidy costs if Edge penetration rises? Thanks a lot.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Amir, thanks. On the Edge and the contribution, look, as I just said in the previous question, it's going to be very, very hard for me to start to separate this given the indirect channel.

Look, I think the guidance we have given -- I stand behind the guidance that we've given. We will do our best to try to give some clarity in this going forward. But as I said it's going to be a cloudy environment and it's hard for me to sit here today to say, oh, Edge is going to contribute x basis points of my profitability. I just don't know because I don't know what the take rate will be.

And I want to make sure we talk about take rate, not penetration, so it's going to be the take rate of new additions, not the penetration of the base.

As far as quarterly earnings, this is a great question because historically you would see more of an uptick in second and third quarter. I think now that we have 100% of wireless you're going to see a more consistent earnings per share for us going forward. Other than the fourth quarter, obviously, which is more seasonal so that has its own issues.

But I think you're going to see a more consistent first, second, and third quarter and then the fourth quarter will have its own decline because of the seasonality with that. So that's a good question and thanks for asking.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thanks a lot for your incremental color, Fran.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks. Can you talk a little about the recent FCC regulatory comments regarding net neutrality and the broadcast auction rules; what your positions are on this and how you think this evolves over the next several months?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so I know the FCC was issuing an order today on net neutrality. I have not had a chance to look at the order. We will be excited to read that order and then we can give our comments on that. So unfortunately, being on the call, I have not seen it and been updated on that.

As far as the auctions go, look, I think that we are obviously preparing for those auctions, as I talked about the beginning here, with our gross debt. We are preparing our balance sheet and our financial wherewithal to participate in these auctions coming up.

Look, as we continue to look at these rules and work through these rules, we will continue to behind the scenes, if you will, work with the FCC to get the rules that we need. But it's an important step forward for the pool of spectrum available to meet our customer needs and we will certainly take advantage of what the FCC is working on as far as the auctions go.

KEVIN SMITHEN: And when can we expect to hear more details about your video strategy? I think you said last quarter that it would be soon, so is it still soon or is it very soon?

FRAN SHAMMO: Kevin, is this on the over-the-top type strategy --?

KEVIN SMITHEN: Yes, and just EdgeCast and VDMS and all of the aggregation of the intellectual property that you bought in the last 12, 18 months.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so video -- Verizon Video Digital Media Services is ramping up. We are still in what we would call a beta set with a lot of content providers and testing the system. And I believe, as I said before, that revenue will start to ramp in 2014.

So that's the first step in just putting content through and digitalizing that content, potentially inserting ads into that content. Obviously we added the uplink and the EdgeCast assets to that and really that was in preparation to prepare for the over-the-top, if you will. But I think it's still way too early to tell.

On the OnCue acquisition obviously the first priority is IPTV, but as you overlay that to the other asset sets, what I would say is we are in a great position to take advantage of the marketplace when and if content starts to sort itself out from an over-the-top perspective. So that's probably all we would say at this point in time on that one, Kevin.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: David, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Joseph Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOSEPH MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking the question. Fran, if I could just follow up to the last question, how should we think about how you are thinking about splitting your budget between the AWS and the broadcast auctions?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think it's too early to tell. I guess what we are focused on or at least what I am focused on right now is the AWS auction, which we know will happen at the end of this year with the payment being sometime in the first quarter. So that's top priority. And then we will deal with the broadcast licenses after that, within 2015. So right now the priority is AWS.

JOSEPH MASTROGIOVANNI: Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: That ends our questions. I would like to turn it over to Fran for some closing remarks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Look, everyone, thank you for joining us this morning.

I think I would just recap and say the first quarter for us was a great start to the year. We consistently invest and focus on the profitable growth to drive strong financial performance in revenue, earnings, and cash flow.

We're focused on customer satisfaction. Our proven ability to scale this business and drive operational efficiencies is in order for us to deliver more value to our customers and compete effectively in all areas of our business.

We continue to focus on our strategy to deliver the highest quality overall customer experience. We listen to our customers, monitor the competitive environment, and respond where necessary in a rational manner. We are very confident in our ability to execute and improve on our business fundamentals, driving consistent customer value while delivering growth in customers, revenues, earnings, and cash flow.

We are very excited about the future of this industry. We are excited about our investment, the innovation curve that we are delivering, the customer satisfaction that we have, and the delivery of value to our shareholders and to our employees, our most valuable asset. So thank you for joining our call this morning and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140426ea4o002e5
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,043 words
   PD
21 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

   TD
MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Evan. Good morning and welcome to our fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our safe harbor statement and other legends on slides two and three. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our results, I would like to cover a few special items that are included in our reported results. These are displayed on slide four.

For the fourth quarter we reported earnings of $1.76 per share on a GAAP basis. This includes several significant non-operational items that I would like to highlight. The largest item is a pretax gain of $6 billion related to the year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities.

This favorable accounting adjustment is primarily non-cash and is caused by an increase in the discount rate, changes in actuarial assumptions, and a greater-than-projected return on plan assets. On an after-tax basis this gain amounted to $3.7 billion or $1.29 per share.

Partially offsetting this favorable item were pretax charges of $865 million related to the transaction to acquire Vodafone's 45% stake in Verizon Wireless. These transaction costs include net incremental interest expense of $616 million related to the debt raise in connection with the acquisition and a bridge financing and other costs of $249 million. On an after-tax basis these transaction charges totaled $540 million or $0.19 per share.

Excluding these non-operational effects, adjusted earnings per share was $0.66 in the quarter compared with $0.38 a year ago, which included a $0.07 per share charge for the direct impact from Super Storm Sandy. For the full year, adjusted earnings per share were $2.84 compared with $2.24 last year, an increase of 26.8%. If you exclude the Sandy impact from last year, the increase was 22.9%.

The quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential. Also, the results in growth rates exclude the effect of the non-operational items.

With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and Happy New Year. Before we get into the details I would like to start with an overview to put our results in the proper context.

2013 was a great year for Verizon from both a strategic and financial perspective. Of course, the big strategic milestone was in our agreement to purchase Vodafone's 45% stake in Verizon Wireless, which will give us sole ownership of the best asset in the global wireless industry.

We have all the necessary financing in place. The special shareholder meetings for both companies are scheduled for one week from today on January 28 and a closing is planned for February 21. As we have stated, the transaction will be accretive to earnings per share by about 10% on day one. Full ownership will also provide access to all the cash flows and give us greater flexibility to develop converged solutions without any integration and due diligence risks.

Our strategy is to build upon the foundation and strength of our network assets as the platforms for the future growth and innovation. To that end, we are extremely well positioned in the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry: mobility, broadband, video, cloud services, and security. Sole ownership of Verizon Wireless, along with our portfolio of other assets, will enable us to better leverage our capabilities across the entire business.

In Wireless we completed our LTE coverage build and continue to invest in our 4G network to take advantage of the significant opportunities enabled by this technology as we innovate around our customer solutions. In 2013 we further strengthened our portfolio of enterprise strategic services with the development of a new cloud services product suite, the launch of a mobile healthcare platform, and several targeted acquisitions which will enhance our capabilities in mobile video delivery. Collectively, these moves further strengthened the business and improved our competitive position in key areas of growth.

Underlying these strategic imperatives has been consistently strong operational and financial performance driven by solid execution and a disciplined focus on meeting our financial objectives. In 2013 we achieved or exceeded all of our key financial targets, delivering on what we said in January of 2013.

In Wireless we had an excellent year. We added 4.1 million new postpaid connections, generated service revenue growth of more than 8%, and drove a 15% increase in EBITDA. Our growth in EBITDA was significant, $4.5 billion in absolute terms, and we expanded our annual service EBITDA margin nearly 300 basis points to 49.5%, squarely within our 49% to 50% guidance for the full year.

In FiOS we increased our penetration of data and video services by adding more than 600,000 new customers during the year. The scale of our FiOS business and the popularity of our FiOS quantum speeds drove annual consumer revenue growth of 4.9%, up sharply from 3.2% in 2012.

In the enterprise space, in spite of continued economic challenges, strategic services revenue grew 4.6% in 2013. In terms of Wireline profitability, we guided to a flat EBITDA margin and that is what we produced at 22.2%.

In the area of capital spending, we met our revised guidance of $16.6 billion which was up 2.7% over 2012. Even with that increased spending level, we improved our overall CapEx-to-revenue ratio as we said we would.

2013 was a great year of significant earnings and free cash flow growth. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $2.84, up over 26% for the year. Our free cash flow growth was also very significant, increasing by $6.9 billion to $22.2 billion, an increase of 45% from 2012.

In terms of shareholder value, we generated a total return of 18.6% in 2013 through a combination of stock price appreciation and dividends. For the seventh consecutive year our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase indicating their confidence in our future cash flows and earnings growth.

From my perspective, 2013 was a great year of execution resulting in impressive customer growth and significant improvements in profitability and cash flows. Now let's look at our fourth-quarter and full-year performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on slide six.

Total operating revenue grew 3.4% in the fourth quarter, continuing our consistent top-line growth trend. For the year, we added $4.7 billion to consolidated revenue, an increase of 4.1%. On a full-year basis the increase in consolidated revenues along with effective cost management resulted in more than 21% growth in adjusted operating income.

On the same adjusted basis consolidated EBITDA increased $4.6 billion, up 12.3% for the year. Our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 260 basis points to 34.9%, the highest consolidated margin in eight years.

As we highlighted earlier, adjusted earnings per share in the fourth quarter of $0.66 was significantly higher than a year ago. Our earnings performance has been very strong and very consistent with double-digit year-over-year growth throughout 2013.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide seven.

Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership and network quality, reliability, and the overall customer experience. We will continue to build on our network advantage in 4G LTE by deploying capital to increase capacity and density to our network.

Our fourth-quarter and full-year Wireless results were excellent. We continued the strong momentum built during the year and finished very strong. Total Wireless revenues grew by $5.2 billion in 2013 and totaled $81 billion, representing two-thirds of Verizon's consolidated revenue. We sustained our strong service revenue performance with 8% growth in the fourth quarter, making this our fifth consecutive quarter of at least 8% growth.

For the year, service revenue grew 8.3%. We generated $8.3 billion of EBITDA in the fourth quarter, up 22.6% from the same quarter last year. Our service EBITDA margin in the quarter was 47% compared with 41.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.

For the year, EBITDA grew to $34.2 billion, up $4.5 billion or 15%. This is a very impressive accomplishment and a testament to the efficiency of our network and our continuous focus on improving productivity and efficiency throughout the business by applying our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles. Our 2013 EBITDA service margin of 49.5% improved by 290 basis points, a very significant expansion, and is squarely within the guidance we provided during the year.

The other point I would emphasize is the consistency of our Wireless profitability. We have posted margins of 49% or higher in the five of the last seven quarters. Now let's turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide eight.

Service revenue growth continued to be driven by more customers and devices, increase of data usage, and smartphone penetration. Our Share Everything Plans are doing exactly what we expected -- driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage -- resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.

During the fourth quarter, retail postpaid revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 7.1% to more than $157 per month. We have seen consistent growth in this metric. For the full year ARPA was up nearly $10 or 6.9%. We ended the quarter with 35.1 million postpaid accounts and average connections per account grew from 2.64 to 2.76, an annual increase of 4.5%.

As we have said, customer adoption of our Share Everything Plans has been exceptional. In just 18 months more than 46% of our postpaid accounts are on these plans. In 2013 we effectively doubled the number of accounts on Share Everything from 8.1 million to 16.2 million. The value proposition is simple and straightforward and customers recognize the value of shared data across multiple devices.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide nine.

We had a strong quarter of quality customer growth. Retail net additions totaled 1.7 million, postpaid net adds were 1.6 million, and prepaid were 80,000. In terms of the makeup of our postpaid net adds, we added 1.4 million new 4G smartphone customers. Total phone net adds were 824,000 when you include the net change in 3G smartphone and basic phone customers.

We had a very strong quarter of Internet device growth with 675,000 net adds, 625,000 of which were tablets. The remaining net adds of about 74,000 were primarily home phone connect. As usual, we finish the year with strong customer growth and have great momentum heading into 2014.

To recap the full year, we had a total of 4.1 million new postpaid net adds and 4.2 million new 4G LTE smartphone customers. We added 1.8 million new Internet devices, with tablets representing about 1.5 million of this total. We also added about 360,000 other devices, primarily home phone connect.

The offset to these additions was the net change in basic phones. Total phone net adds were 1.9 million for the year, representing about 47% of the total. We ended the year with 102.8 million total retail connections.

Our industry-leading postpaid connections base reached 96.8 million and prepaid totaled 6 million. Postpaid gross adds increased sequentially to $4.3 million and totaled $15.1 million for the full year, up 1.7%. Roughly 60% of our gross adds for the quarter and the full year were smartphones.

Our postpaid upgrade rate was 7.4% in the fourth quarter and our quarterly average was 7% for the year. As you would expect, a significant percentage of our upgrades are smartphones, which benefits us from a service revenue perspective. About 23% of upgrades in the quarter were basic phone customers getting a smartphone for the first time. A majority of the remaining upgrades were 3G smartphone customers moving up to a 4G smartphone, which we are able to monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve.

Our churn metrics continue to be market leading. Our retail postpaid churn was 0.96% in the fourth quarter, down 1 basis point sequentially and up 1 basis point year over year.

Next let's turn to slide 10 and take a look at device sales and our progress on 4G LTE. Postpaid device activations, which include both gross adds and upgrades, totaled 11.5 million in the quarter. This is higher than any prior quarter in 2013. For the full year total postpaid activations totaled 41.5 million.

Smartphone activations totaled 8.8 million in the quarter and 87% were 4G LTE. For the year, smartphone activations increased 7.8% to 31.1 million.

Smartphone penetration increased to 70% of total phones. About 58% of our smartphones are 4G. We still have approximately 25.5 million basic phones and 24.7 million 3G smartphones in our customer base, which gives us plenty of opportunity in 2014.

We had our best quarter of tablet activations since they were first introduced in late 2010. We activated about 790,000 postpaid tablets in the quarter and 1.9 million for the full year. Our tablet base now stands at 3.6 million, so again we have a great opportunity in 2014 to expand this category and generate growth.

4G device penetration within our postpaid base really picked up in 2013. At year-end 44% of our retail postpaid connections were 4G, up from 23% one year ago.

Usage on our network continues to rise. Currently about 69% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network. Going forward, we will continue to add capacity and optimize our 4G LTE network, ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting on slide 11.

Our Wireline investments in platforms such as FiOS, global IP, security, cloud services, and machine to machine enable us to deliver the services, applications, and solutions that our customers want. As these services scale, they will become increasingly efficient and will improve our overall cost structure.

In the consumer and mass markets business, we continue to see positive revenue trends. For the last six quarters consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%. In the fourth quarter these revenues were up 6.4%, driven by FiOS price increases and incremental revenue from FiOS Quantum.

We believe that consumer revenue growth in excess of 4% in 2014 is sustainable. FiOS now represents about 73% of consumer revenue and we sustained strong double-digit growth throughout the year. FiOS consumer revenue grew 14.9% in the fourth quarter and 14.3% for the full year.

Within our base 46% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribe to Quantum with speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second. In the fourth quarter 55% of our FiOS Internet sales were at speeds in excess of 50 megabits per second.

Our overall consumer monthly ARPU increased to $117, up 10.8%. Roughly two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple play, which have a much higher amount of recurring revenue per month.

In terms of adding new customers, we are focused on profitable growth and have been disciplined in our approach in this very competitive market. In broadband, we had 126,000 new FiOS Internet additions in the fourth quarter and now have 6.1 million subscribers representing 39.5% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers were a positive 20,000.

In FiOS video we added 92,000 new subscribers in the quarter. Total FiOS videos customers reached 5.3 million, representing 35% penetration.

We also continue to make steady progress with copper migrations. During the fourth quarter we converted about 80,000 customers. For the full year we converted 330,000 customers, exceeding our target of 300,000.

This network initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies. At the end of the year less than 1 million consumer customers remain on copper services within our FiOS footprint.

Aside from the maintenance savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which would result in additional recurring revenue. Looking at access lines, retail residential connections declined by 5.2% compared with a loss of 6.2% at this time last year.

Let's move to our enterprise markets next on slide 12.

In the fourth quarter global enterprise revenue declined $200 million or 5.2%. Legacy CPE sales were down 25%. Excluding the quarterly decline in CPE, global enterprise revenue is down 2.6%.

We also continue to see pressure in revenue from the public sector which declined at a double-digit rate. This decline included both soft demand and product rationalization at the federal, state, and local levels. Strategic services, which now comprise 59% of enterprise revenue, grew 2.3%. Key areas of investment such as data centers, cloud, and security services are growing at higher rates.

We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space. In addition to public sector pressures, in the private sector many enterprise customers are more focused on improving their cost structure which puts pressure on our top-line revenue. In general, enterprise customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.

Moving next to global wholesale, quarterly revenues declined $138 million or 7.8%. The revenue pressure is caused by the continued decline in legacy transport services. As we have stated, our wholesale strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next-generation Ethernet services.

In terms of profitability, while growth in enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix, volume declines and rest of global enterprise and wholesale continue to put pressure on Wireline margins. Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts, which we believe will ultimately improve our operating efficiency.

Let's turn now to slide 13. To summarize our overall Wireline results, total operating revenues were down 1.5% in the fourth quarter and 1.4% for the full year. FiOS and certain strategic services continued their positive growth trends, while global enterprise and wholesale were pressured by declines in legacy transport services, CPE, and challenges in the public sector.

In terms of Wireline profitability, fourth-quarter EBITDA was $2.2 billion, resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.4%. For the full year, EBITDA increased 2.5% to $8.7 billion with an EBITDA margin of 22.2%. As expected, our margin is similar to 2012. As I have stated in the past, we are confident that we will increase our Wireline EBITDA margin in 2014.

Let's turn to slide 14 for a discussion of our cash flow results. Our cash generation in the quarter remained very strong. For the full year, cash flows from operations increased to $38.8 billion, an increase of more than 23%. Free cash flow increased to $22.2 billion, up 45%.

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.8 billion and were $16.6 billion for the full year, an increase of 2.7%. We continue to be very focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency, and our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio improved from 14% in 2012 to 13.8% in 2013.

At the segment level, Wireless capital spending was $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter and $9.4 billion for the full year, up 6.4%. In Wireline capital expenditures were $1.8 billion in the quarter and $6.2 billion for the year, down 1.8% from 2012.

The strength of our financial position enabled us to raise a record-setting amount of capital in the debt markets last September. We ended the year with total debt of $93.6 million with all the permanent financing in place related to the pending Vodafone transaction.

We have a positive track record in terms of deleveraging the balance sheet. Our pre-transaction leverage ratios were very low and we utilized cash to retire $8.1 billion in bonds during 2013. Even though we have more debt, our balance sheet remains strong and we retain the financial flexibility needed to grow the business.

In 2014, our priorities for uses of cash are unchanged. We will continue to invest in our networks, purchase spectrum, and delever the balance sheet in a prudent and disciplined manner. We do not need to execute any major acquisitions to drive our business model. We understand the importance of our dividend and our Board of Directors has shown it support by approving dividend increases in each of the last seven years.

In terms of capital spending, we estimate total spending in 2014 to be in the range of $16.5 billion to $17 billion with continued improvement in our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio. We will be opportunistic in terms of acquiring new spectrum and have consistently demonstrated our ability to execute on this through a number of secondary market transactions. Our willingness to sell or swap lower band spectrum with competitors' shows our industry leadership and strong belief that spectrum should be in the hands of companies that plan to deploy the spectrum and put it to use.

As far as pension funding requirements, our minimum required funding for 2014 is $1.2 billion based on our current plan assumptions. As far as additional forward-looking information for 2014, we intend to provide that on our first-quarter earnings conference call in April. Let's move next to our summary slide.

We enter 2014 with confidence in our ability to take advantage of the growth opportunities in our key strategic markets. We will continue to invest in our networks as the platforms for future growth and innovation. We have strong momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength, driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE.

In FiOS, we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with our FiOS quantum product and quality of our video services. In the enterprise space, we will continue to aggressively market key platforms like cloud, security, machine to machine, and video delivery demonstrating to customers that we have a unique set of capabilities to provide customer solutions in a rapidly changing, mobile-first environment.

In terms of our cost structure, we will continue to drive productivity improvements and operating efficiencies throughout the entire business utilizing our Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles.

At the end of the day, it is all about execution. 2013 was a great year. Our focus on the customer and improving the value proposition drove consistent top-line performance and resulted in significant growth in profitability and cash flows, improving our investment returns. For 2014 Lowell and I have challenged our business leaders to build on the strong foundation we have, accelerate the momentum we have achieved, improve the returns on our investments, and create more shareholder value.

We look forward to another great year in 2014. With that I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Fran, thank you. Evan, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. Wireless margins were better than we thought; it looks like partially due to the lower upgrade rate. Is Edge putting pressure on the number of upgrades and do you expect the number to be lower in 2014 than it was in 2013?

Then, secondly, T-Mobile's new strategy with ETFs has been getting a lot of attention; how do you see that? Is that sort of an incremental change or do you think it's more of a fundamental change to the industry? And how do you expect that to affect your business as you look out in 2014?

FRAN SHAMMO: Good morning. On the upgrade side, obviously the volume of upgrades this year were less than last year given all of the policy changes that we made. And also keep in mind that at the end of 2012 we also had a free iPhone for the first time on our network, so that drove a lot of upgrade activity year over year so we had less volume this year.

As far as the Edge program, the Edge program is going very well for us but I would tell you, just to give you a sense, it is generating less than 1% of our profitability right now. So this is not a significant portion of our portfolio. But, obviously, given the competitive environment here -- first off let me just reiterate the fact that I know there has been a lot of questions around a price war. If you really look at what is going on, really what the shift of pricing is between service and equipment and really when you do the math there really isn't much of a price decrease here. It is just a shift of how this market is into the consumer market.

So obviously Edge is important to us from a competitive standpoint, but I'm not going to give guidance, John, on where our upgrade rate will be in 2014. As I said, I will give more guidance here once we close the Vodafone transaction. We have a shareholder vote here in a week, so I think it would put us in a very peculiar situation to give further guidance at this point in time.

I will give more guidance on that at the end of the first quarter. So that is where we stand.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I guess two. One, can you help us think about Wireline margins next year? How do you think about the issues of total revenue being sort of flat to down and mix issues versus cost cutting? Just trying to scale the potential for Wireline margin growth.

Then second on the OnCue platform, can you give us some more color? Do you envision a full MSO over Wireless or out of region eventually, or is this more of an in-region and sort of ancillary product? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. Good morning. So on Wireline margin, look, I think that I have been pretty clear on this. Coming into this year I said we would be flat given a lot of headwinds that we have from some of these startup products we have, especially around the Redbox joint venture, VDMS, and some other things in there. So, look, we are very optimistic that we can improve this margin in 2014.

As far as top line, what I gave here today is we are very confident that we can sustain the 4%-plus top-line growth on the Wireline consumer piece of this. And as you notice, we did our price ups here in the fourth quarter of this year, which is different than what we have done in the past, and that was to prepare us for obviously the January 1 witching hour which is when content costs go up in all of our contractual arrangements.

So we have put ourselves in a position this year to offset that content increase which we weren't in a position last year, so we have done some strategic things from a top-line perspective. Obviously, enterprise continues to be a pressure point and I would say that we don't plan for that to change in 2014. And I have said that coming into 2013 and leaving 2013 that I don't think we are going to see much of a change in our enterprise top-line position in 2014.

So I think that the cost-cutting measures of Verizon Lean Six Sigma, some of the improvement in some of these other ancillary platforms where obviously we acquired Hughes Telematics. That is now growing top-line revenue coming into the fourth quarter of this year.

You probably saw today we just signed another agreement with Hyundai to acquire their business. This is a growing platform, but it does put pressure on us because we are hiring people and it was a loss when we acquired it and continued to be a loss through 2013. I think that could change some in 2014.

So there is a number of things here. And I guess what I would say is I am confident that we can improve the margin of our Wireline business going into 2014.

As far as the OnCue acquisition, look, the focus here is really to accelerate the availability of the next-generation IP video service which we will integrate into the FiOS video service. And really what we are trying to do is differentiate this even more so with fiber to the home versus others with the TV offerings and reducing the deployment costs. And this really accelerates us from if we were trying to build IP TV versus buying the IP TV technology.

From an FiOS customer perspective, we expect the benefits that they will have more elegant search and discovery activity and cost stream ease of use. But also keep in mind, with the acquisition of Verizon Wireless and becoming 100% ownership of that we also plan to take that platform and integrate it more deeply with our Verizon Wireless 4G LTE network. So that really was the strategy behind this.

As far as would we enable this platform to take us over the top, obviously we have our video digital media services that we have been working on for 2.5 years. We've just made two acquisitions related to that platform. So, look, we are positioning ourselves strategically to be in a position to competitively compete around the whole mobile first world and video, so I think that is where we are.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. Just a couple questions. First, Fran, if we can just get an update on net debt at Verizon Wireless. And then, secondly, can you talk about the total amount of cost cutting that the Verizon Wireless business achieved during 2013 that contributed to the margin expansion you flagged in the past different initiatives that you were working on.

I was also wondering if you could share your aspirations in terms of the cost-cutting potential for 2014. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So I guess this will be the last and final quarter that I ever have to do this hopefully. Gross debt of $5.3 billion, cash of $3.6 billion, and net debt of $1.7 billion.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: As far as the cost-cutting side goes, look, coming into 2013 we said that Verizon Wireless had already cut about $5 billion worth of cost out of their infrastructure. We said that we are targeting them for another $2 billion in 2013. They actually exceeded that benchmark in 2013.

And, again, I am going to hold on 2014 here and I will give you more guidance when we get to the end of the first quarter. And, again, it is all around our shareholder vote and the acquisition of the Vodafone transaction.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: If I could then just follow up with a different question then. On the pension side you mention the cash investment that you are planning to make for 2014; where are you starting off the year in terms of the funding status? And then where would that $1.2 billion roughly get you to?

FRAN SHAMMO: With the change in the discount rate and our assumptions around the return on assets, our actual unfunded liability from the end of last year to the end of this year has improved by $2.6 billion, so our unfunded liability at the end of the year for pension is at $5.9 billion. Now that also is very helpful from us on the annuitization that we also did there during the year of 2013. So puts us in a very good position with the $1.2 billion minimum contribution that we have into the plan to really start to make this a 100% funded plan.

On the OPEB side of the house, our unfunded liability went from $24 billion at the end of 2012 to $19 billion, so a $4.2 billion improvement on that unfunded liability. So when you look at our balance sheet, even with the $8.1 billion of bonds that I paid off, we also had a decrease of over $6 billion in our unfunded liabilities. The strength of our balance sheet has really taken off this year with almost $14 billion of a decline in our liability.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. Since we have seen some changes in competitive behavior I feel like we've been getting sort of scattered data points around who is taking share from who. In the past, you guys have always had pretty positive porting ratios versus all of your peers. I know you don't give that on a regular basis.

I am just curious; can you either qualitatively or even quantitatively talk about how you feel about your net share gains versus your peers in light of the current environment.

FRAN SHAMMO: I think the fourth quarter will stand on its own at 1.7 million adds and 824,000 net phone adds with the best quarter we have had since we launched tablets of 625,000. And I think that in a combination of itself will standalone, but let's just go back here a second from a competitive environment standpoint. I have said before we will compete and respond accordingly where we need to.

If you recall, coming out of the third quarter this question came up and I said, look, we are seeing a segment of our base that is responding to some of the competitive offers and we will make the necessary changes that we need to to compete against those changes. If you look at our churn in the fourth quarter, which was unusual because in a seasonal season we normally would go up in churn from the third quarter to the fourth quarter and this year we sequentially declines by 1 basis point. So I think that tells you that we responded to our base, we listened to our customers, and this is what we do.

Now the competitive environment has changed again here in the fourth quarter and you can expect us to respond accordingly.

The other thing I would hedge ourselves on that we have built our brand very long term and we have built loyalty with our customers. They come to us because of our network quality and superiority. We have -- if you look at the coverage of our LTE network compared to our competitors, we are by far multiple times more coverage than our competitors and some as much as 5 and 6 times more coverage than our competitors.

If you look at our Share Everything Plans, we continue to change them. We launched a new price plan you probably picked up yesterday to go after our basic phone customers and, look, we are going to compete in all devices in all markets.

I think that another competitive advantage we have is our customer service and the quality of that customer service. If you look at the new store we launched, which we call our destination store in Minneapolis, I mean we are going after smartphone customers but it goes well beyond that from a competitive standpoint. I mean if you look at that store, we now are going after the sports and fitness with all kinds of devices, music, gamers. We have a whole home section and, of course, we have been talking about the machine to machine and tablets for a while now.

Again, I think there is more competitiveness than just one little price plan. We will respond accordingly and aggressively and continue to do what we are doing.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thanks for that color.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Just first one, Fran, on FiOS. The quarter was a little soft relative to the trend, but what I noticed was that the footprint path is inching towards about 19 million. The homes marketed to looks like it is more in the mid-15 millions.

Could you talk a little bit about kind of the plans for mining out the rest of the FiOS opportunity and how that might contribute to the expectations for healthy consumer growth? I guess that is number one.

Number two, if I could just follow up on something you guys talked about on the VerizonVodafone transaction. I think, Fran, you had some estimates about what you thought the flowback was going to be and how it was going to impact trading in your stock. And, obviously, I'm sure there has been a lot of hedging of things that have moved around. If you could maybe give us a little bit of an update on what you think the movement around the stock is going to be around the transaction based on your latest data it would be super helpful. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So on FiOS, yes, so let's put it in perspective. We came out of the third quarter with an extremely good quarter of growth and the environment became extremely competitive and the competition went after price and dropped pricing accordingly. And we were pretty cautious on how we responded to that.

We didn't believe that we wanted to chase some of those price points in the fourth quarter, because we know from our customer experience that a lot of customers do not want us intruding in their houses during the holiday season. So we were cautious on how we responded to that and obviously that led to some slower growth that we have from a net add perspective.

But here is what I would say: if you look at what we have done in 2013 and the concentration of the copper to fiber migration, which we believe is a more profitable customer at the end of the day, they are just voice and DSL customers. So if you look at our Internet volumes, we actually did over 42,000 more net adds in 2013 with Internet on FiOS than we did in 2012. So that really was the concentration and we exceeded that by 30,000. So we came into the year thinking we would get 300,000 and we did 330,000.

What we are seeing from this base is once we move them with the same price plans, either by voice or DSL, they are then buying up -- if they are only voice, they are coming over to our FiOS Quantum offer. And if they come over, they are buying up FiOS Quantum pretty significantly, which is generating ARPUs in the range of $15 to $20 over and above what they were as a copper customer.

And as you know, we gave a disclosure of 55% of these folks are coming in at 50 megabits and above and we will continue to increase our speeds. We are working on a new router that is going to give better in-home performance with all the extra Wireless devices that are going on.

So when you think about profitability and top-line growth, FiOS Quantum is extremely important because when you look at broadband versus TV, look, you don't have the content so broadband is actually more profitable than the TV product. Now having said that, as I said in the third quarter, there is a lag once we move these people in marketing to them and getting to move to the TV. So TV did lag this quarter and I expected it to lag this quarter and I expect it to lag as we continue to migrate this extra less than 1 million homes that we have left in our FiOS footprint.

But I also want to be clear that we are not going to build beyond what our current LFAs are, and as you said, we have 18.5 million homes passed now with about 15.3 million open for sale in Internet and about 15 million for TV. So we have plenty of opportunity here.

But I would also tell you that, again, even with the slower growth of the fourth quarter, we still took market share and still continue to increase our penetration. And New York continues to be our fastest growing market with the most penetration this year over any other market we had in the TV arena. So I think that is what sets us up for 2014. We will continue to execute on the same things that we have done this year, which is concentration on migration and getting those quality customers to buy up in their bundles.

On the second question of flowback, look, I think it is getting harder and harder for me to do zero in on what the flowback is given what the market has done and the short positions and everybody positioning where they are. As we said when we came into this transaction, we thought the net flowback would be around 300 million shares, but keep in mind we will have somewhere between 4.1 billion and 4.2 billion shares outstanding. So it is a pretty insignificant, minimal amount based on the volume of daily trading that we think we will have.

That is really all the thought I can give you on the flowback at this point in time.

DAVID BARDEN: All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Jefferies.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Fran, maybe a couple of things. You commented regarding the Edge program; it seems like some of the competitors out there are moving to EIP which you can argue is a pretty bad deal for the consumer but pretty good for carriers. Why wouldn't you guys just get more active in the Edge marketplace and offload that subsidy back to the consumer?

And then, secondly, on the enterprise side it seems like the industry overall has been pretty weak. Can you just comment like the different pushback pieces there between legacy to new migration; what does the pricing environment look like? And then from a competitive standpoint are you seeing any change there? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, on the Edge program, I mean as I said earlier, we will respond where we think we need to respond. I'm not going to get into what others have done between Edge and subsidy. We had a very successful fourth quarter and what we launched to the marketplace they were receptive to that. We ran a lot of promotions in the fourth quarter and it drove a lot of growth to our business.

Again, we will continue to do what we do best, which is we add customers and we are profitable.

On the enterprise side of the house, look, this is becoming a more and more struggling event here given the uncertainty of the government. As you know, what causes more concern now is that the president has nominated Senator Baucus, who was leading the Tax Reform Act. He has now been nominated to ambassador of China, which means now that could delay some reform. Now others are picking it up.

But this just gives more room for caution as to what is going to happen in 2014. Are we going to get tax reform? What about the extenders? They haven't talked about extenders at all. There is a large cliff that we hit here on December 31 which was we lost a lot of credits and obviously the accelerated depreciation deduction is gone.

So there is a lot of things that are putting enterprise back on their heels and people are just looking for cost-cutting measures, which means that means I take a top-line decrease in order to maintain that business.

From a public sector perspective, look, the federal government, our sector there, is declining double digits year over year and that is obviously putting a lot of pressure here. There are opportunities in that segment that we are exploring, but the way I would look at this is you have seen us make some moves here around EdgeCast, upLynk, and video digital media services. And you have seen us make some other moves in our cloud and what we have recently launched with our new cloud product in a beta test.

So within security, cloud data centers, and advanced communications arena we are growing revenue year over year, even more significantly than strategic services overall. So there are certain niches that are growing, but unfortunately it is not enough to offset the other declines that we are seeing just from the public sector and some of these other pressures that we are getting from the large enterprise customers.

Again, I think 2014 will be pretty much flat with where 2013 was. I don't expect it to get any worse, but it will be a tough slug for 2014.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, you have talked about in the past I think the percentage of customers -- this goes back many years probably -- but percentage of customers that have already moved from legacy product into IP Ethernet. Is there a metric you can put around that as far as the customer base goes?

FRAN SHAMMO: You know, Mike, to be honest I don't know that off the top of my head. I'm sorry.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Mark Warren, Morgan Stanley.

JOHN MARK WARREN, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. I was just wondering; on FiOS Quantum you have had a lot of success getting customers to upgrade from lower speeds like 10 megabits per second to 50. Is that typically a one-time boost or do you see customers continuing to come back for more speed?

FRAN SHAMMO: John, thanks for the question. We actually continue to see customers come back. And if you think about this, this is like when you are in your home, if you have one or two wireless devices running off of that Wi-Fi at 10 megabits and you start to put three or four devices on that, guess what, you're not getting 10 megabits to those wireless devices anymore. You're getting something significantly less than that.

So the only way to compensate for that is to increase the speed into that router so we see customers 50, 75, 100. And as I said, we are going to come out with a new proprietary router that is going to even increase the speeds even more that are available for those wireless devices as people start to saturate the inside of their homes with tablets and other machine-to-machine connections. So this is an ongoing upgrade that customers are doing.

We do this very seamlessly within the Verizon FiOS TV product or online, where we pop up things within your TV. You can even just click the okay button if you want to upgrade right there and then and it automatically does it. There is no phone call needed. We make it very easy for customers to do that but, yes, we see customers coming back for a second time.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: We have started to see a bit of a resurgence in access line M&A activity in the industry. Are there opportunities for Verizon to divest Wireline assets in 2014 or 2015 in order to increase the Wireless mix and deleverage the balance sheet? And if Wireline is a third of revenue today where would you like to see that in three years?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks for the question, Kevin. That is pretty little foresight there on divestitures but, look, I think Lowell and I have always said we will always look at opportunities for anything. If we feel that we can get an adequate return for our shareholders based on the investments we have and the properties we have, then we will execute on that.

So, look, I guess I would say we always have an open mind but at this point there is nothing on the table for us around that. The properties we have are performing extremely well and we will continue to execute on that.

As far as a three-year view, I guess I will talk maybe a little bit more of that when we get to the end of the first quarter call, but again I'm not going to give any more further guidance. Look, I think we are very satisfied with the asset portfolio we have. With the acquisition of Verizon Wireless and owning 100% of that asset, you are going to see us do more things around converged solutions, so the Wireline assets, in my view, will actually become more valuable over the longer term here with our footprint.

So at this point I would say we are open, but nothing on the table at this point in time.

KEVIN SMITHEN: You mentioned the loss of some of the tax credits for bonus depreciation, etc. When you think about your capital budget for the year are you going to continue to spend at the clip you spent last year for Wireless, given some of the spectrum and strong subscriber growth, or are there risks to the CapEx number to fund some of the higher cash taxes that are likely?

FRAN SHAMMO: No, because I think -- look, we gave guidance on CapEx at $16.5 billion to $17 billion. As I said before, obviously Wireless will take a higher percentage of that CapEx spend and the other areas of the business will take a lower portion of that CapEx spend, especially as the FiOS builds continues to slow here. But, no, there is no strategic change in the way we view our investments.

I don't do investments based on tax law. I didn't accelerate CapEx spending when the accelerated depreciation went into effect. I don't anticipate I am going to slow capital spending because it is not there anymore, so I think we will just continue to drive and execute on what we have.

From a cash tax standpoint, as I said before, obviously our cash taxes will go up with the acquisition of the 45% of Wireless. I have guided for next year when we announced the acquisition that we would be somewhere in 35% to 36% ETR, so I think at this point that is where we will keep it and I will give you more color once we come out of the first quarter.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Mastrogiovanni, Credit Suisse.

JOE MASTROGIOVANNI, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking my question. Fran, you have potentially some spectrum opportunities in the secondary market and then you have a couple of spectrum options coming up. How should we think about the way you prioritize the low band spectrum versus maybe the mid and high band spectrum?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, as obviously I think we have shown that we have made the secondary market a very viable market. We have done a number of swaps with Leap/T-Mobile, sales with T-Mobile and AT&T, and some swaps even with AT&T in that piece sale that we did.

As far as our portfolio, obviously we like the 700 megahertz for the coverage of the LTE that we did. AWS is our sweet spot at this point in time, which is the spectrum that we have been swapping for, so we have a very efficient portfolio of spectrum and I think we have shown through the years that we are very efficient on how we use spectrum.

Keep in mind that, as I said, we will participate in the auctions because we will need more spectrum, but right now our current position is that with the AWS that we have and that we are launching in markets that you know in New York and San Francisco, Chicago we are lighting that spectrum up. It is pretty much completed in New York. We will continue to add to that, but keep in mind though too that we will also re-appropriate our 3G spectrum to 4G.

So we will take that PCS spectrum that has been running in our 3G network -- as the volume of that network continues to decrease as we move more 3G phones to 4G, we will bring re-appropriate that spectrum over to the 4G LTE. So three to four years we are in very good shape from a spectrum holding position, but we will participate in the upcoming auctions.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, New Street Research.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, NEW STREET RESEARCH: Thanks very much. I wonder if I could just follow up on that last question. I think the next block of spectrum that is going to come on to the market as AWS-3. So two questions around that.

First of all, do you see that as a valuable spectrum block that you really [want to be] a part of, or is there enough opportunity within repurposing some of your 3G spectrum to 4G that that is not critical? Then in terms of deploying that spectrum if it is valuable to you, does it require you to put more equipment on the tower, or because it is contiguous to existing spectrum that you are deploying, can you do with all existing equipment? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Jonathan, on this one, look, we will participate in the auctions that are coming up, whether it is the AWS-3 or if it is the broadcast or whatever the FCC is going to auction here in the future. We have to build our portfolio for the next 10 years out so as we have done in the past and we have shown that when auctions come up it's opportunistic. They only come up one time so you need to participate.

And that is what we showed when we won our 700 megahertz. We won the A and the B blocks a while ago and now we have repositioned that portfolio. We have launched the 700 megahertz and the AWS that we have.

So AWS-3 is pleasing to us. Some of the higher frequencies is pleasing to us. Again, I won't get into -- I am not an engineer, so I'm not quite sure what has to happen within the network in order to enable these spectrums, but don't think it is much based on what we have done with AWS. So we will participate in upcoming auctions.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Great, thanks. Fran, I just wanted to see if you could give us a little -- quantify this, what I call the smart to smartphone device upgrade opportunity. You said you are seeing ARPA lift there, but between the 3G and 4G I know there is more usage. But is there a way to quantify that ARPA lift you have seen with these smart to smart movers?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, I'm probably not going to give you that, Jennifer. If you look at a 3G usage moving to a 4G, we know that -- and we have seen it in our base -- as soon as you get on the 4G with video consumption and the quality of video your usage goes up. So obviously it is hard for us to quantify this because with our Share Everything Plan you are obviously buying a bundle of minutes that you can share among all devices.

But as you can see, from our service revenue growth, our ARPA lift, our increase in connections it is all coming together as to how these plans were designed. And as I said, we still have a lot of 3G customers and a lot of basic customers for 2014 that give us a lot of opportunity. So I think I will leave it there and the numbers will speak for itself.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Thanks, Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you for your questions today. Before we end the call I would like to turn it back over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Look, our industry has a very healthy competitive environment and we are forecasting continued strong demand for video and broadband across multiple networks.

As I said, Verizon will compete aggressively in all of our markets. We will focus on delivering a superior customer experience on the best networks in the world. Our customer value proposition and the efficiency delivery of our services will generate growth and profitability. This focus on profitable growth will create value for our shareholders, provide the earnings and cash flow necessary to reinvest in our networks and platforms for future growth and innovation.

We are very excited about the future. We will continue to invest, innovate around solutions, deliver for our customers, our shareholders, and our Verizon employees. So again Happy New Year, everyone, and thank you for joining our call this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

EDITOR: COMPANY DISCLAIMERS

ADVERTISEMENT

This communication is deemed an advertisement for the purposes of the U.K. prospectus rules and is not a prospectus or a prospectus equivalent document. Any decision to subscribe for, purchase, otherwise acquire, sell or otherwise dispose of any Verizon Communications Inc. shares must be made only on the basis of the information contained in and incorporated by reference into the U.K. prospectus published by Verizon in connection with the proposed transaction with Vodafone Group Plc. Copies of the U.K. prospectus are available from Verizon's registered offices and on Verizon's website at www.verizon.com/investor/shareownersservices.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

In this communication we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "hopes" or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors, along with those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the ability to realize the expected benefits of our proposed transaction with Vodafone in the timeframe expected or at all; the ability to complete the Vodafone transaction in the timeframe expected or at all and the costs that could be required to do so; failure to obtain applicable regulatory or shareholder approvals in connection with the Vodafone transaction in a timely manner or at all; failure to satisfy other closing conditions to the Vodafone transaction or events giving rise to termination of the transaction agreement; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of further financing; significantly increased levels of indebtedness as a result of the Vodafone transaction; changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation; adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies; material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact; material changes in technology or technology substitution; disruption of our key suppliers' provisioning of products or services; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks; breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate; changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; and the inability to implement our business strategies.

NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION

This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval nor shall there be any offer or sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements thereof.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT

Verizon Communications Inc. has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 containing a prospectus with respect to the Verizon securities to be offered in the proposed transaction with Vodafone (the "prospectus"). Verizon also filed with the SEC a proxy statement with respect to the special meeting of the Verizon shareholders to be held in connection with the proposed transaction (the "proxy statement"). The registration statement on Form S-4 was declared effective by the SEC on December 10, 2013. Verizon mailed the prospectus to certain Vodafone shareholders and the proxy statement to Verizon shareholders on or about December 11, 2013. VODAFONE SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE PROSPECTUS AND VERIZON SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE PROXY STATEMENT, EACH TOGETHER WITH OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC, IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and shareholders can obtain free copies of the prospectus, the proxy statement and other documents filed with the SEC by the parties through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and shareholders can obtain free copies of the prospectus, the proxy statement and other documents filed with the SEC by Verizon by contacting Verizon's Assistant Corporate Secretary, Verizon Communications Inc., 140 West Street, 29th Floor, New York, New York 10007. These materials are also available on Verizon's website at www.verizon.com/investor.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140123ea1l0012x
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,819 words
   PD
17 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I am here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be made available on our website later today.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement and our other legends on slides 2 and 3.

Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risk and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our results, I would like to cover a few special items that are included in our reported results. These are displayed on slide 4.

For the third quarter, we reported earnings of $0.78 per share on a GAAP basis. These results include a net gain on the sale of 700 B block spectrum of $0.02 per share offset by net incremental interest expense of $0.01 per share related to the debt we have raised to finance the acquisition of the remaining 45% stake in Verizon Wireless. We have accounted for the gain on the spectrum sale at the corporate level so it is completely excluded from Wireless segment results.

Excluding these non-operational effects, adjusted earnings per share was $0.77 in the third quarter compared with $0.64 a year ago. Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share was $2.18 compared with $1.87 last year. Our discussion of operating results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effects of these two items and they are not part of our segment results.

Finally, the quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

With that I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. In the third quarter our key strategic networks and platforms, Wireless 4G LTE, FiOS and enterprise strategic services drove very strong operating performance and financial results. Our consolidated revenue growth rate increased once again and our focus on cost efficiency and improved profitability resulted in double-digit growth in both operating income and earnings per share which we have delivered in every quarter this year.

Third quarter adjusted earnings per share of $0.77 was up 20.3%. Year to date adjusted earnings per share of $2.18 represents 16.6% growth.

In Wireless, we had another very strong quarter of growth and profitability. We posted sequential quarterly improvement in terms of new retail connections and smartphones. Total retail net adds were 1.1 million which included 927,000 high-quality postpaid net adds.

Service revenue growth increased to 8.4%. EBITDA increased 10.7% and our EBITDA service margin was 51.1%. All of this was accomplished with 7.6 million smartphone activations this quarter which was up sequentially and 12.5% higher than last year.

Our Wireline results in the third quarter also showed improvement. Consumer revenue increased 4.3% driven by FiOS penetration. Enterprise strategic services revenue grew 5.2%. Total Wireline segment EBITDA increased 3.8% and the EBITDA margin improved to 22.7%, up 50 basis points sequentially and 100 basis points year over year.

Our strong operating performance and disciplined capital spending is driving growth in free cash flow. On a year-to-date basis, free cash flow increased $3.1 billion to $16.6 billion, an increase of more than 23%. All in all, we had a great third quarter capped off by a lot of activity since Labor Day.

We announced an agreement with Vodafone to acquire its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless. The transaction will be accretive to earnings per share, provide additional operating cash flows, and enable greater flexibility to develop converged solutions without any integration and due diligence risks.

The capital market environment was strong and we had a fully executed bridge facility in place at the date of the announcement. We successfully arranged in one day the required permanent bond financing with a $49 billion debt offering and earlier this month, we signed an agreement for up to $12 billion in term loans.

Last week we filed a Form S4 registration statement and our proxy statement with the SEC related to the pending transaction.

Lastly in a demonstration of their confidence in the strength of our future cash flows, all Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend increase for the seventh consecutive year. So we have been busy and productive on the transaction front but as always, our primary focus is driving strong operating results.

Now let's look at our third-quarter performance in more detail starting with consolidated results on slide 6.

Total operating revenue grew 4.4% continuing our solid top-line growth trend. This marks the fourth consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 4%. The increase in consolidated revenues along with effective cost management resulted in 16.8% growth in adjusted operating income in the quarter.

On the same adjusted basis, consolidated EBITDA increased to $11 billion, up 9.7%. Our adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 170 basis points to 36.3% which is the highest consolidated margin in more than five years.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 7. Our consistent investment in Wireless is the foundation of our success and drives our leadership in network quality, reliability and the overall customer experience. We will continue to build on our network advantage in 4G LTE by deploying capital to provide additional capacity and density to our network. We will also be opportunistic in terms of acquiring new spectrum. In short, we will continue to focus on executing our game plan.

Our third-quarter results clearly demonstrate our ability to create strong operating momentum and deliver excellent results. We continue to perform extremely well in a highly competitive market.

Total Wireless revenues grew to $20.4 billion in the quarter, representing 67% of Verizon's consolidated revenue. We sustained our strong service revenue performance with 8.4% growth, our fourth consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 8%.

EBITDA increased to $8.9 billion and our EBITDA service margin expanded by 110 basis points to 51.1%. Year to date, our EBITDA service margin is 50.4%. Our Wireless profitability has been very consistent with margins of 49% or higher in five of the last six quarters.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue per account beginning on slide 8. Service revenue growth continues to be driven by increasing connections, data usage and smartphone penetration gains. Our Share Everything Plans are driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.

During the third quarter, retail postpaid revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 7.1% to nearly $156 per month. We have 35 million postpaid accounts and average connections increased to 2.72 per account, up 4.6%.

Customer adoption of our Share Everything Plans has been exceptional. In just 15 months, 42% of our postpaid accounts are on these plans. The value proposition is simple and straightforward. Our customers quickly recognize the value of shared data across multiple devices particularly in our 4G LTE environment.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 9. In the third quarter, retail net additions increased by 1.1 million, up 2.2% sequentially. As I highlighted earlier, we had 927,000 postpaid net adds. In terms of the makeup of these postpaid net adds, we added more than 1 million smartphones which was a 5% sequential increase. Including the decline in basic phones, total phone net adds were 481,000. We added 370,000 new Internet devices including tablets. The remaining net adds of about 76,000 were primarily home phone connect.

We did encounter iPhone supply constraints that created a backlog at the end of September which resulted in some carryover to the fourth quarter. Within prepaid, we added 134,000 new retail connections which was 38% higher than the second quarter.

We ended the quarter with 101.2 million total retail connections. Our industry-leading postpaid connection base reached a 95.2 million with the balance being prepaid.

We maintained a high quality mix within our retail connections growth. Postpaid gross additions increased sequentially to 3.7 million. 73% of these gross adds were phones including 2.2 million smartphones both of which were higher than first or second quarter.

The number of customer upgrades in the quarter remained fairly steady on a sequential basis with a postpaid upgrade rate of 6.9%. The upgrade rate was also slightly affected by inventory constraints.

As you would expect, a significant percentage of our upgrades are smartphones which continue to benefit us from a service revenue perspective. About 33% of customers upgrading to smartphones this quarter were purchasing one for the first time. A majority of the remaining upgrades are moving from a 3G to a 4G smartphone which we are able to monetize through higher data usage and lower cost to serve. And while upgrades are likely to be higher in the fourth quarter, we continue to expect that our annual upgrade rate will be about the same as last year.

Our churn metrics continue to be market leading. Our retail postpaid churn was 0.97%.

Next let's turn to slide 10 and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE. Postpaid device activations which includes both gross adds and upgrades totaled 10.2 million in the quarter representing both a sequential and year-over-year increase. Similar to first and second quarter, 88% of the activations were phones.

Smartphone activations totaled 7.6 million and 77% of these were 4G LTE. The smartphone mix was fairly balanced once again with roughly 51% of the activations being iPhones. Our smartphone penetration continues to improve and we ended the quarter at over 67%. We also had another strong quarter of Internet device activations which topped 1 million again in the quarter.

4G device penetration within our postpaid base continued at a rapid pace. 38% of our retail postpaid connections are now 4G, up from 33% in the second quarter and 17% one year ago. More than 50% of our smartphones and 70% of our Internet devices are 4G. Currently about 64% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network.

Throughout the rest of this year, we will continue to add capacity and optimize our 4G LTE network ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment starting on slide 11. Our Wireline investments in platforms such as FiOS, global IP, security, cloud services and machine-to-machine enable us to deliver the services, applications and solutions that our customers want. As these services scale, they will become increasingly efficient and will improve our overall cost structure.

In the consumer and mass-markets business, we continue to see positive revenue trends highlighted by sustained FiOS growth. For the last five quarters, consumer revenues have grown in excess of 4%. In the third quarter, revenues were up 4.3% driven of course by FiOS which now represents about 72% of consumer revenue.

Our overall consumer monthly ARPU increased to nearly $113, up 8.7%. Roughly two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple play which have a much higher amount of recurring revenue per month. We had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth. In terms of broadband, we had 173,000 new FiOS Internet additions and now have 5.9 million subscribers representing 39% penetration. Overall, net broadband subscribers were a positive 56,000.

In addition to the customer growth and increased penetration, we are also gaining traction with our FiOS Quantum offers for higher broadband speeds. More than half our FiOS Internet sales in the quarter were at speeds in excess of 50 megabits per second and just over 40% of our FiOS Internet customers subscribe to Quantum with speeds ranging from 50 to 500 megabits per second.

The incremental revenue from higher broadband speed is contributing to overall consumer revenue growth. In FiOS Video, we added 135,000 new subscribers in the quarter, up 13.4%. Total FiOS Video customers reached 5.2 million representing 35% penetration.

We also continued to make steady progress with copper migrations. During the quarter we converted about 80,000 customers. Through nine months, we have converted nearly 250,000 customers so we are on track to exceed our target of 300,000 customers for the year. By year end, we estimate that less than 1 million consumer customers will be remaining on copper services within our FiOS footprint.

This network evolution initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies. Aside from the maintenance expense savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services which could result in additional ARPU over time.

Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends. Retail residential connections declined by 4.9% compared with a loss of 6.3% at this time last year.

Let's move to our enterprise markets next on slide 12. In the third quarter, Global Enterprise revenue declined $113 million or 3%. Legacy CPE sales were down 21% and represented $91 million of the year-over-year decline. Excluding the quarterly decline in CPE, Global Enterprise revenue was down less than 1%. Keep in mind that our Global Enterprise revenue includes both federal and state government. Strategic services which now comprise 58% of enterprise revenue grew 5.2%.

We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space. In the public sector, we are seeing the effects of sequestering, budget cutbacks and contract renewals. In the private sector, many enterprise customers are more focused on improving their cost structure which puts pressure on our topline revenue. Generally speaking, enterprise customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.

Moving next to global wholesale, quarterly revenues declined $113 million or 6.3%. While this quarter is an improvement, the revenue pressure is driven by the continued decline in legacy transport services. As we have stated, our wholesale strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next-generation Ethernet services.

In terms of profitability, while growth in enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix, volume declines in the rest of Global Enterprise and wholesale continue to put pressure on Wireline margins. Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program, we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts which we believe will ultimately improve our operating efficiency.

Let's now turn to slide 13. To summarize our overall Wireline results, total operating revenues were down 1% in the quarter. FiOS and strategic services continued their positive growth trends while Global Enterprise and wholesale were pressured by declines in legacy transport services and CPE. Excluding the decline in legacy CPE, our revenue performance this quarter was essentially flat year over year.

In terms of Wireline profitability, third-quarter EBITDA increased to $2.2 billion resulting in an EBITDA margin of 22.7%. On a year-to-date basis, the Wireline EBITDA margin was 22.1%. We continue to expect that our full-year EBITDA margin will be similar to 2012 excluding the effects of Sandy from last year's results. We also continue to target improved profitability and margin expansion in 2014.

Let's turn to slide 14 for a discussion of our cash flow results. Our cash generation in the quarter remained very strong. On a year-to-date basis, cash flows from operations increased to $28.4 billion. Free cash flow increased to $16.6 billion, up 23%. This does not include the $1.9 billion of proceeds from the sale of a 700 B spectrum licenses which is included in cash flows from investing activity.

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4.2 billion and were $11.8 billion year to date, up 4.3%. We estimate that full-year 2013 capital spending will be approximately $16.6 billion.

We are very focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency and expect that our annual CapEx to revenue ratio will improve even with the planned additional spending in 4G LTE.

Wireless capital spending in the third quarter totaled $2.5 billion. Year to date, Wireless CapEx was $6.7 billion, 10.8% higher than last year. As noted on our last quarterly call, our 4G LTE coverage build is essentially completed so our capital spending going forward will be focused on adding capacity and density to our existing coverage. We are utilizing our AWS spectrum to further optimize the network and we are already spending some of the incremental capital we allocated to Wireless capacity.

In Wireline, capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $4.5 billion year to date which was down 3.2% from last year. In terms of the balance sheet, total debt increased to $99.1 billion due to the permanent financing we put in place related to the pending transaction to obtain full ownership of Verizon Wireless. However, since we do have the cash until the close of the transaction, our net debt to adjusted EBITDA remained quite low at about 1.1 times.

Let's summarize. Our third-quarter results were very strong showing consistent performance in all our key strategic growth areas. In Wireless, continued strong growth in service revenue coupled with high quality connections growth and the success of our Share Everything Plans are driving double-digit growth in EBITDA and very strong cash generation.

We continue to lead the industry in profitability and we are on track to deliver 49% to 50% EBITDA margins for the full year. We also expect to see customer growth increase sequentially in the fourth quarter.

In Wireline, consumer revenue growth of more than 4% continues to be driven by FiOS where we are on track to achieve our net subscriber growth targets. In enterprise, we continue to focus on strategic services and have announced our new Verizon cloud strategy.

In terms of an update on our pending transaction to gain full ownership of Verizon Wireless, our permanent financing is secured and we have taken out our bridge financing facility. An S4 registration statement and our proxy statement were filed on October 8 and are under review by the SEC. You can access these filings on our Investor Relations website or the SEC website.

Efforts are underway to obtain the required regulatory and shareholder approvals. We expect to close the transaction during the first quarter of 2014. Overall a great third quarter. We are focused on continuing our momentum and finishing the year strong.

With that, I will turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Brad, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good morning guys. Two quick ones. First on the Wireless margins, Fran, how much of an impact did the EDGE plan and the 24-month upgrade cycle have in the strong margins you guys posted in the third quarter and then how should those issues affect the fourth quarter?

And then I saw you talked about the uptick you had in the Wireless CapEx. You talked about the AWS deployment. Can you give us a little bit more detail on how that gets laid over? And just sort of how quickly can you get some more capacity into the market on the LTE side?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. So on the VZW margins, so EDGE keep in mind we launched EDGE at the very end of August. It really didn't pick up speed until September. Our indirect channels did not get it until the very, very end of the quarter. So there really was no impact from the EDGE program to these results. We will see more in the fourth quarter and we will wait to get to that to report it out. But very, very immaterial impact.

On the 24-month cycle, it is very hard for us to determine because again people are proactive on when they upgrade to a cycle basis. Of course it did delay some of the upgrades from going from that 20 month to the 24 month and that went into effect on September 1 so again, only really 30 days of impact there. We will probably see more of that in the fourth quarter.

As far as the VZW margin impact from the two of them, I would say very, very limited in this quarter and you can see why the margin was the way it was just from an overall revenue increase and some of the cost containment measures that we have been putting in place for quite some time. We can talk more about that.

As far as CapEx goes, so here is where we are at. Obviously we know that we have completed the coverage build of our 4G LTE and obviously if you look at our map, it is pretty significant coverage compared to our competitors. And now post June, all of our efforts have gone into the capacity and densification and given where we are if you look at some of the metrics, I mean if you think about 38% of our customers are on the 4G network and they are generating 64% of the data usage, this is a pretty significant volume of usage going through that network.

We know that given the growth of this we have had some densification issues in major cities like New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and we are totally focused on those types of issues. And what you see us doing is being very proactive in more in-building coverage, more densification cell sites, launching the AWS spectrum. So you are going to see that through the fourth quarter and that is why we increased the CapEx spending.

But I think the walk away here is that we are extremely focused on our network, it is our brand. We will continue to perform in this area and also the return here if you think about every dollar I put into that network when you have 64% of the data on a tiered Share Everything Plan, you can see that coming through from our revenues.

So the return on the invested capital is pretty immediate and it is pretty significant. So we will continue to concentrate on that effort.

JOHN HODULIK: Great, thanks Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, we are ready for the next call.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. A couple of questions I guess focused on Wireline. First, the FiOS volumes very, very strong quarter in broadband. I think it adds up almost 30% year over year. The extent to which video is bundled to this looks like to have taken a bit of a hit in the quarter. I think there is a 40,000 disconnect between broadband adds and video adds on the FiOS side. That is much larger than normal. Can you help us think through that?

And then second just on Wireline margins, good progress in the quarter on margins. The comment on margin expansion for 2014, maybe you can help us think through are there any things that that necessarily relies on? For instance if enterprise is still under pressure next year, does that put pressure on margins or can you grow margins despite that? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jason. So on the FiOS broadband, we did have a very, very good quarter from a net add perspective especially on a year-over-year basis and especially since when you look back in history, third quarter is normally a very high churn quarter for us.

Keep in mind a couple of things here. So on the broadband side of the house you have to remember that as we do 80,000 migrations from our copper who are voice and DSL only over to FiOS, you are getting voice and FiOS Quantum adds. And as I have talked before, we really don't approach these customers on a TV product for about five to six months and then it takes us about another three to four months of marketing to actually see some success in conversion and we see about a 30% conversion once we do that.

They are really interested in the broadband speed and of course what you see in the Wireline segment today is as we migrate these customers from the copper product to the FiOS product, we are bringing them over at the same price. But what we see is almost immediately with the speeds that they are getting in the FiOS Quantum, they themselves are choosing to upgrade right into that 50 megabits and at times now even into the 75 megabit product. So their ARPU is going up which is generating some of this Wireline increase that you see.

So TV net adds were up 13% year over year. Now granted, some of these adds we got came from some of the disputes that happened in the competitive nature here during the quarter but still even without that, we would've seen an increase year over year in our productivity and our penetration of FiOS. So we are very happy with where we are but TV will always lag when we do these migrations.

On the Wireline margin, look I think I have been pretty consistent here with where we think Wireline is going and I am still very confident that 2014 will show improvement.

And just to keep everyone grounded here, the reason I say this is I am looking at enterprise as being flat with no substantial growth and we can talk about just the continued disruption that is coming out of Washington and the uncertainty and I think that will continue at least in the short term here given what happened last night and extending some of this into the first quarter -- what is going to happen, what is going to happen when we get to December 31 on the cliff jump off as we had last year with some of the tax preference items?

So I still think there is still a lot of swirl going on and just a lot of uncertainty and enterprise is going to sit on the sideline. But as I look at 2014, I am looking at that is going to be flat.

So what do we see? We see continued progress in our FiOS penetration as I said, I am very comfortable with 4% plus growth in revenue here going forward. I continue to think that we will penetrate all of our markets and continue to gain share both in broadband and TV. And also keep in mind as I said before, with the Hughes Telematics acquisition, VDMS and Redbox, they have all been headwinds this year because we have gotten them up to started and we are eating some of the upstart costs with them. That I believe starts to diminish in 2014 which actually helps. And with Hughes, they start to generate more revenues, VDMS starts to generate revenues.

So there is a lot of things happening but I also think we can't lose sight of our Verizon Lean Six Sigma efforts on our cost initiatives that we have in our Wireline business and you are starting to see some of these efforts start to come through on our efficiency side of the house. So we are very, very optimistic that we can continue to move the Wireline profitability forward.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great. That's really helpful. Thanks, Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, let's take the next question please.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey guys, thanks. You know I think we all continue to be surprised with the Wireless service revenue growth. Can you talk about where customers are in terms of taking more data than the minimum? How many customers or how many families or per device are taking more than sort of a standard 2 gig package per device? And where does 4G usage look now? And if not an actual number then versus where average usage was a year ago? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. So on the Wireless service growth, I think obviously I am not going to get into exactly how many customers break bundles and all of that but I think there is some things that we have to understand here that is driving this.

So first off if you look at this quarter, again we had a very strong quarter with 480,000 smartphone adds that are very high quality and these are all coming in mostly on our 4G and shared price plans. Some of these are 3G phones obviously but the majority is coming in on our 4G product.

The other thing I think you have to understand too is that we are coming up on the anniversary dates of the 3G when the iPhone was launched and those customers now are operating to 4G phones and moving into shared price plans. And if you look at 3G usage and the customers moving into 4G and they start to utilize this LTE network, they are starting to realize the benefits of that and their usage significantly goes up from where they were in 3G.

So that is stimulating. Even if we come over and I have said before, the way our salesforce is approaching this is they recommend 2 gigs for every device that a customer brings into shared pricing. So even with that, you think about that usage versus 3G device usage that in itself is pretty significantly higher. So that drives the revenue.

Then you look at the tablets and the Internet devices, you get into machine-to-machine connections. Our machine-to-machine continues to escalate quarter after quarter and then of course then we look at the prepaid side of the house.

So I think it is a combination of all of these things that are driving that and when you think about 42% of our base is on shared plans, we still have a long way to go of converting a lot of that 3G product over to the 4G and into those shared plans. So there still a lot of runway here to continue to grow this revenue stream for us.

So that is that. And I think I answered the 4G versus the 3G usage.

PHIL CUSICK: And then if I could just follow up quickly on your government comment a few minutes ago, it sounds like you are a little cautious on 4Q in terms of enterprise decision-making and things like that. Is that a fair read?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well I think the cautious is, Phil, I don't see anything changing here from 3Q to 4Q. And again you heard me say that keep in mind our federal and state government are in our enterprise segment and that really is declining faster than the rest of the segment right now.

Now the positive to this is that within our cloud services, it is fairly flat so where we see the federal government during the sequestering period pulling back in some areas, they are actually buying some of the data center and cloud products. So there is a balance here but I don't think things get a lot worse but I don't see them getting any better.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, let's take the next question please.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning. Fran, I wonder if you could update us on the VoLTE rollout and when we are going to start to see that and when you start to see the benefit of lower smartphone costs and lower subsidies going forward? You touched briefly relating to Vodafone about the ability to bring converged solutions together. Maybe you can expand on that a little bit and talk a little bit more about what we might see from the cable joint venture over the next few quarters? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: All right, thanks, Simon. So on VoLTE rollout, we are still on track. You will probably see us have a VoLTE capable handset here in the fourth quarter and as we said that we will light up the VoLTE rollout starting in the first half of next year. So we are still very much on track on that one.

As far as lower smartphone costs and subsidies, look, I think the ecosystem has a lot here. You are going to see a lot of new and innovative products come out in the fourth quarter. But subsidy is done on a handset by handset manufacturer by manufacturer and obviously as you have heard me say before, the more manufacturers we can get into this ecosystem and it really comes down to an operating system, the more competitive nature this market place will become.

So I still believe that that will happen. Obviously you have heard me talk about VoLTE will contribute to some as we start to remove some of the CDMA chips but then there is other technologies like multicast that will be put into the phone. So there is a lot of technologies being removed from the phone but new technologies that are being implemented into the phone. So this is going to be a long path but I do think as I said before, subsidies will gradually come down over the next two to three years.

On the converged solutions side, I mean as far as the joint venture with the cable companies, we have talked about, we still have a distribution agreement with one another and we continue to work with one another to sell each other's products. But the joint venture or codevelopment has been terminated and we are moving in our separate ways on that.

And what you are going to see here is as we talked about Verizon Wireless, the acquisition of Verizon Wireless, we now get to more of a converged middle with our consumer products between FiOS and Wireless and we no longer have the artificial wall up between the affiliate transactions or anything like that.

So I won't talk about what you will see but I think what you will see from us is a move forward of bringing to the customer the best product available between Wireline and Wireless.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, next question please.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks for taking the question. Two questions. First on Verizon Wireless, if you can give us an update, Fran, on the net debt. And then secondly on the Wireline side, I think you mentioned that you have less than 1 million copper customers in your FiOS footprint if I got that quote correct. Can you talk about the significance of that in terms of the opportunity to take those remaining copper customers and get them over to the fiber? And the potential cost savings that you could generate by moving to fiber and really getting the one network architecture within your FiOS footprint for at least the residential customers? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thanks, Mike. So I guess this should be the last quarter I have to answer this question on net debt. So gross debt for Wireless is $10.2 billion, cash is $6.6 billion, net is $3.6 billion.

On the Wireline side, yes, you did get the quote right. So the will be less than 1 million customers that are on copper within our FiOS footprint. And you see us from our migration strategy in the last two years, I think in the last two years now when we exceed our 300,000 for this year, we will have moved close to 600,000 customers from our copper network into our FiOS network. We will continue to approach this migration.

Now if you think that we do 300,000 a year, you are looking at three more years to get that completed. But we will continue to try to accelerate as much as we can and from a cost-benefit obviously what you are seeing is some of those benefits coming through the Wireline results today just from a repair metric, from a truck roll metric, the reliability of this network is drastically different than the reliability of the copper network.

So you are going to see us continue to invest in the FiOS infrastructure. One of the things that we are doing now is the network team has been working over the last year in provisioning the FiOS network into our enterprise and small business customers using the GPON technology. So we fully expect to utilize this FiOS backbone much more than it had been in the past.

So you are going to continue to see this migration and you are going to see the cost benefits coming through our operating results.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: And Fran, if I can just follow up on one other thing. If you think about your Wireline footprint in total, are there any updated views on what you do outside of this core FiOS footprint?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, what you are going to see us do is obviously now we have done some of this in the past but using Wireless, our fusion technology from a broadband perspective. So when we talk about converged solutions and bringing the best solution to our end-user customer, this goes into what do we do with our copper customers outside of the FiOS footprint and what we do for them from a voice perspective and also from a DSL perspective.

And obviously we have home phone connect and we have voice link on the Wireline side that we have already started to sell to our copper voice customers as a substitute to the copper product so we have already done some of this but you are going to see more technology come out here in 2014 that is going to address these issues.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, let's take the next question please.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hey guys thanks for taking the questions. Two if I could. Fran, just on the Wireline side, the consumer business has been really on fire the best performing part of that entire segment right now. And it has really been in the last two quarters or so that you have added about a $500 million worth of run rate revenue in that business. And I know FiOS actually was growing in terms of net adds faster last year on average than it is growing this year. Can you talk a little bit about what the real drivers of that consumer business are and are they extracting -- can we extrapolate those into 2014?

And just teasing apart your commentary about enterprise, if you took out the CPE or kind of talking about enterprise being flattish, Global Enterprise being flattish year over year but obviously government is a weight on that. Then can we interpret that the basic enterprise business coming from non-government sources is actually starting to grow year over year? If you could kind of elaborate on that, that would be helpful. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: All right, thanks David. So on the Wireline consumer business, so look, I think when we size this all up we have some -- we really have three main focuses. As I have talked to before, we have become a very disciplined pricing strategy around our FiOS product. And when we looked at cable a number of years ago, we looked that they were very disciplined in how they did price ups to match their content cost and we were not really good with that but we started this as you know last year very early in the year and we have a strategy going forward. So we will continue to drive that strategy of pricing up the product equivalent to our content cost increases.

If you look at the next level of concentration we have had is we are going after market share. Now as far as slowness in the net adds, there is some seasonality here. There is always something that happens in the environment that causes this. But look, there are some markets that we are over 50% penetrated. So those markets have a slower growth but we are still gaining share in some of our later markets like New York City, Philadelphia, Washington which are in my mind underpenetrated to where they should be.

So you are going to see a little shift. There could be some slowness though as we start to penetrate some of these markets in 50%. But the fact of the matter here is that we still have a long runway. If you look at our 39% penetration, we still have a long way to go from a net add perspective.

But the other thing that is driving this growth and we can't lose focus of it is the migration of these FiOS of these copper customers over to FiOS. And as we convert them as I said, it may take us a little while but then we get that uptick in our TV product along with that.

The other focus that we have to that is not in the topline but really comes in through content, you see us doing some very innovative things around negotiation of content moving away from a per subscriber type content to more of a per viewer type cost of content.

So we are in a lot of conversations with content providers that we are willing to pay for people who watch their programs but we are not willing to pay on an overall subscriber base. We have been successful here with some of the smaller tier content carriers but that is also benefiting the profitability of this product going forward.

So I think there was a whole combination of why we think that we will continue this 4% plus revenue increase with continued penetration and continued profitability in FiOS.

On the enterprise side when we say relatively flat, if you take out CPE our decline in enterprise will be 0.9% this quarter versus -- or 0.8% this quarter versus 0.9% last quarter. So the government is declining faster than that. I wouldn't sit here and tell you that enterprise is growing. We do have certain areas of our business that are growing. If you look at our security product, if you look at our cloud products, if you look at the Terremark product, they are in fact growing. Hughes is growing but then you have the legacy voice and data that is not growing. And that is declining.

So net-net I would say it is relatively flat without the government pressure.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Fran. I appreciate it.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. When you launched the Wireless deal, you had talked about an objective of getting back to your pre-deal leverage levels. I believe you said about four to five years but correct me if that is wrong. But regardless of the timeframe, I was hoping maybe you could just come back and talk about some of the foundational assumptions that support that goal.

For example, do you expect to see capital intensity continue to improve? I am curious what you are assuming about your ability to maintain or even grow your Wireless margins over that four- to five-year period? And then lastly, can you give us any color on what you have budgeted for spectrum purchases?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, thanks Brett. So look, I am not going to get in the details of what we have projected. If you think about everything that we had to consider here, we considered tax, we considered CapEx, we considered the incremental tax rate. As I said, our tax rate will increase to a 35% to 36% range from what we have always guided from a 31% to 33% range. And that is because of the VZW coming over. We had to project out what our interest rate was. We know what that is now based on the offering that we did.

As far as CapEx goes, I have been pretty consistent here. You should consider us improving our CapEx to revenue ratio going forward. You should look at us as to what we have invested this year and we are going to do what we need to do to continue to invest in our networks and our platforms.

But moving out of this, there were three priorities that we set up to come to that four to five years. One was we will continue to invest in our networks and platforms. That is top priority for us. The next is we will continue to invest and buy licenses either opportunistically or in the auctions. I can't tell you what that number is because obviously it is going to be a public auction and we have a lot of strategies around how we acquire licenses. But that was built into our model.

And then finally, the dividend policy is also a very critical piece of this component to our equity shareholders and I think our Board showed that when they increased the dividend at the same time that they announced the deal. They are very confident in our cash flow.

And then finally, we have a commitment that we will delever the balance sheet as quickly as possible.

So look, I think if you look at the performance, if you look at our cash flow and our free cash flow this quarter, I think we are demonstrating that four to five years is within our horizon and we will meet our targets.

BRETT FELDMAN: And are you assuming you can maintain margins at roughly the same levels?

FRAN SHAMMO: I am not going to get into giving guidance around margins. I think that our performance speaks for itself and the margins speak for themselves.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Okay, Brad, next question please.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning, folks. Fran, just to follow up on the prior question around VoLTE rollout, what does this mean in terms of network investment here and specifically what I am trying to understand is are you where you need to be with respect to your network in order to provide ubiquitous VoLTE services nationwide or should we expect some additional investment in order to get to that level?

FRAN SHAMMO: So on this one, it is a good question but the issue with VoLTE is coverage and as I have always said, we will not rush the VoLTE launch until we are sure that when you connect up a VoLTE voice call it will be very, very similar to a 3G CDMA call because that is what our customers expect. They know what the CDMA footprint is, they know where they can call. It is an unbelievable network.

We have to make sure that our VoLTE experience is the same and that is why we have taken such a long time and we believe that when we get to the first half of next year, the network will be ready, the experience will be very, very similar and we will be ready to roll this out.

But it is already built into the CapEx that we are spending. You should not see incremental CapEx for rolling VoLTE. It really is around coverage and it is of course, it goes into the densification and capacities.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: That is very helpful. If I may just a follow-up here, somewhat of a bigger picture question. As you mentioned, this is sort of the fourth consecutive quarter in which you folks have posted 8% plus Wireless service revenue growth. How sustainable do you think this is going forward and the way I am thinking about it is, what advantages now controlling the full cash flow of Verizon Wireless provide you in driving initiatives to sustain this level of growth?

FRAN SHAMMO: Again it goes back to the earlier answer that there is a lot of things going here and if you look at just sustaining this growth, I think I have been pretty open to say look, I can't sit here and tell you that 8% growth is going to happen forever in Wireless. You are talking a huge base of revenue. So I do think that the growth rate will come down over time.

But look, there is so much technology being developed throughout the world that is running over LTE. If you look at our innovation center in Waltham, and Lowell is out at our innovation center that we just opened up in San Francisco to welcome all the application developers into that center.

So it really comes down to the application developers developing new technologies around LTE. So it is hard for me to determine what this continued growth rate will be but there is a lot of runway, there is a lot of technology and the growth rate is still there.

Now I will tell you that in the short term I do believe that we can continue an 8% growth but over the long term I would tell you that I think that is probably a high aspiration.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thanks for the incremental color.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE RESEARCH EQUITIES: Thanks. I wondered if you could review where you are specifically in terms of the AWS rollout? I think it has been quoted that from Nicki Palmer that you are going to end the year at 5000 AWS sites. Where are you at the end of Q3 and can you confirm the 5000 number and what the target would be at the end of 2014?

And also maybe what kind of user speeds uplink and downlink you are seeing in the AWS markets versus the 700 markets particularly in New York, Chicago, San Francisco where you cited higher congestion.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Kevin. So look, I mean we are not going to get into a speed discussion because speed has a lot to do with nobody is on the network so obviously you are going to generate a lot higher speed. What we are building the network for is a very consistent reliable experience. And we have always said that the network engineers have designed the LTE network when it is fully loaded and that is the key here when it is fully loaded and obviously with 64% of data being driven through that network, it is pretty loaded, you are going to experience on average 10 to 12 megabits.

Now you will get bursts of 20, 30 and I know there was a report that came out with AWS of 80 but there was no one on the network. So I think it would be irrelevant for me to speak to that.

But here is the point. The point is we are doing a lot around our network. We are launching the AWS. As I said we are launching a lot of technologies and the city, the issues that we are currently having in some of the larger cities with the densification, these are starting to be fixed in the third quarter and we are going to make a lot of progress in the fourth quarter. So I think that is really what is important here.

And to me it is kind of irrelevant how many cell sites have what. It all comes down to the quality of the network, the reliability and the consistent performance of that network.

KEVIN SMITHEN: And you touched on the incentive auction. How long do you think this AWS spectrum can carry you and if the AWS -- if the incentive auction gets pushed back for whatever reason, do you have enough capacity in AWS to last you through 2016 and 2015 and what are the scenarios?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, well it is not just AWS because we can re-appropriate our CDMA spectrum in the slivers we need over into our LTE network. So as I said before, given the timeframe we are in now we are good for at least three, plus, four years with the spectrum holdings we have. But obviously we are going to participate in the auction. We are going to need more spectrum for the future of our business and we are going to invest in that spectrum.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Okay, Brad, next question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: Thanks, guys, good quarter. Maybe just two Wireless clarifications and an update maybe on what your cloud strategy is at this point. I know you launched a new product. But on Wireless, can you maybe just discuss market share shifts. I know Sprint was shutting down the network and T-Mobile has been making some marketing initiatives. Have you seen any real changes out there in market share?

And then, Fran, I know you talked about the ARPU growth but are you seeing any resistance to the price increases? I mean it seems that ARPU growth is really, really positive for the longer-term trend if it continues and the elasticity doesn't kick in. And then if you can just talk about your new enterprise cloud update that you launched that would be great. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Tim. So on the marketshare side look, we did 927,000 net adds this quarter which was a strong quarter. Obviously we could have done more but there was constraints in the iPhone especially around the 5S and I think that constrained us for this quarter. But that will roll into our fourth quarter here.

So from a marketshare standpoint, we continue to gain market share. I can't sit here and tell you that we don't lose customers to our competitors. If you look at some of the other things that we are dealing with, I mean we do have some low-end if you will some single-line basic phone customers and older 3G smartphone customers. And what we see of the shift here is we are seeing them shift out of postpaid into our retail prepaid products but we are also seeing some of them shift off to some of the lower-end price plans of our competitors.

We did launch some things in September and we saw some improvement there and we will continue to get aggressive with those types of customers here in the fourth quarter.

But from a marketshare perspective, we are gaining marketshare. I think we will still post the best quarter of any competitor out there.

As far as the ARPA trend, this just goes to what I have said before is the focus going forward is not necessarily how many net adds I do, it is how we generate the growth of our topline that produces the margins. And this goes around everything I have talked about this morning with the quality of the network, 3G to 4G, all of these other devices and some of this ARPA growth as we say, it's revenue per account.

These could be, as I said before, these are other devices being attached to the network not necessarily smartphones or tablets. As you know, we sold cameras. We have sold a lot of machine-to-machine technology that are in our stores now. So there is a lot of things that are contributing to this even if it is $0.50 to $0.60 a subscriber, it is still generating that revenue coming through that ARPA.

And then on the cloud, obviously for some clarification here I think what you are talking about is on October 3 we launched a paid public beta of our new public cloud infrastructure. We are calling this Verizon Cloud Compute and Verizon Cloud Storage for businesses and governments of all size. And our technology will give us the ability for this cloud-based infrastructure to handle enterprise-level workloads securely and in compliance with a lot of relevant requirements which will provide flexibility and economic benefits as generic public cloud.

So the launch of this cloud is just the next step in our cloud evolution. You are going to see a lot more of this come through in 2014. We will unveil new features. We have this technology established in seven of our data centers on a worldwide basis. You are going to hear more of this but it is a trial and a beta at this point and I think you are going to see us do a lot more in 2014 and you'll start to see some of the benefits there.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, we have time for one final question.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thanks, Fran. Two quick questions. First on SMB, cable seems to be moving more upstream at least that's some of the checks we are hearing. I am just wondering if you are seeing that and how critical is Wireless as a part of your sales pitch to this segment because that is obviously an advantage for you?

And then quickly on prepay, AT&T has made some more recent comments that they are going to be more aggressive on pricing there probably more through leads. But just your quick thoughts on your prepay strategy here. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. So on small business look, I always split this between two segments. We have a segment that is within FiOS and a segment that is without -- outside of FiOS. Obviously Verizon Wireless does an unbelievable job with small business and Wireless product.

But within our footprint within FiOS and outside of FiOS, there's two things. One is within FiOS, we are actually gaining share in the small business environment. The issue is that obviously we have to pass those small businesses with FiOS and quite honestly, that has not been a concentration of ours most of it was to residential homes within our footprint.

So now it is building out all of those malls and so forth. So we have gone down the street. Now the issue is getting that into the small stores of these small businesses.

So within FiOS, we are doing a fairly good job. Outside of FiOS, it is hard for me to compete with the speeds that cable can offer them through the DOCSIS 3.0 technology. So yes we are using Verizon Wireless, we are using Fusion where we can but it is hard to compete because Fusion can't supplement a hardwired broadband connection into a very populated area. So that segment we are losing share; within FiOS, we are gaining share.

On the prepaid strategy, I have said all along we have our prepaid on 3G and the theory here is to keep the 3G network as full as possible to contribute contribution margin since we are not investing in that anymore and we will continue to get as aggressive as we can.

And you can see that over the last year and a half we have become more aggressive in the prepaid environment but we also use our resellers to drive the lower end of prepaid because we don't want the brand of Verizon Wireless connected to that low-end environment with a quality premium network of Verizon.

So that is the differentiation I think between us and our competitors but you can see we continue to make strides in prepaid and we will be as aggressive as possible on the 3G network to be competitive.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Thanks, Fran.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Before we end the call, I would like to turn it back over to Fran for some closing comments.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thanks, Mike. Just a few comments here before we end the call. So our industry has a very healthy competitive environment and we are forecasting continued strong demand for our video and broadband across multiple networks. We are executing effectively within this competitive environment, consistently delivering strong results, positioning ourselves for future revenue growth, earnings and cash flow growth. And we will continue to invest in all of our networks to deliver the most reliable customer experience and that is what they expect.

We are excited about the future as we continue to invest, innovate and deliver for our customers, our shareholders and our employees. Thank you for joining the Verizon call this morning and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

EDITOR: COMPANY DISCLAIMERS

ADVERTISEMENT - This communication is deemed an advertisement for the purposes of the U.K. prospectus rules and is not a prospectus or a prospectus equivalent document. Any decision to subscribe for, purchase, otherwise acquire, sell or otherwise dispose of any Verizon Communications Inc. shares must be made only on the basis of the information contained in and incorporated by reference into the U.K. prospectus expected to be published by Verizon in connection with the proposed transaction with Vodafone Group Plc. Copies of the U.K. prospectus will be available from Verizon's registered offices and on Verizon's website at www.verizon.com/investor.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS - In this communication we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "hopes" or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors, along with those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements - the ability to realize the expected benefits of our proposed transaction with Vodafone in the timeframe expected or at all; the ability to complete the Vodafone transaction in the timeframe expected or at all and the costs that could be required to do so; failure to obtain applicable regulatory or shareholder approvals in connection with the Vodafone transaction in a timely manner or at all; failure to satisfy other closing conditions to the Vodafone transaction or events giving rise to termination of the transaction agreement; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing; the ability of Verizon to complete the financing of the Vodafone transaction on satisfactory terms; significantly increased levels of indebtedness as a result of the Vodafone transaction; changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation; adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies; material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact; material changes in technology or technology substitution; disruption of our key suppliers' provisioning of products or services; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks; breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate; changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; and the inability to implement our business strategies.

NO OFFER OR SOLICITATION - This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval nor shall there be any offer or sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements thereof.

IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC - Verizon Communications Inc. has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 containing a preliminary prospectus with respect to the Verizon securities to be offered in the proposed transaction with Vodafone (the "preliminary prospectus"). Verizon has also filed with the SEC a preliminary proxy statement with respect to the special meeting of the Verizon shareholders to be held in connection with the proposed transaction (the "preliminary proxy statement"). The registration statement on Form S-4 has not yet been declared effective and the preliminary prospectus and the preliminary proxy statement are not yet final and will be further amended. VODAFONE SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE PRELIMINARY PROSPECTUS AND VERIZON SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT, EACH TOGETHER WITH OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED WITH THE SEC, IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. Investors and shareholders can obtain free copies of the preliminary prospectus, the preliminary proxy statement and other documents filed with the SEC by the parties through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and shareholders will be able to obtain free copies of the prospectus, the proxy statement and other documents filed with the SEC by Verizon by contacting Verizon's Assistant Corporate Secretary, Verizon Communications Inc., 140 West Street, 29th Floor, New York, New York 10007. These materials are also available on Verizon's website at www.verizon.com/investor.

PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION - Verizon, Vodafone and their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the shareholders of Verizon in respect of the proposed transaction contemplated by the proxy statement. Information regarding the persons who are, under the rules of the SEC, participants in the solicitation of the shareholders of Verizon in connection with the proposed transaction, including a description of their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is set forth in the preliminary proxy statement filed by Verizon with the SEC. Information regarding Verizon's directors and executive officers is contained in Verizon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and its Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, dated March 18, 2013, which are filed with the SEC. Information regarding Vodafone's directors and executive officers is contained in Vodafone's Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2013, which is filed with the SEC.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131024e9ah001jm
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,772 words
   PD
18 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President Investor Relations.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI, SVP OF IR, VERIZON: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

Before Fran takes you through the details, I would like to make you aware of a nonoperational item included in the quarterly results. For the second quarter, we reported earnings of $0.78 per share on a GAAP basis. These results include $147 million after-tax or $0.05 per share for the favorable effect of an interim actuarial remeasurement associated with one of our pension plans due to settlement accounting. The non-cash credits were due primarily to an increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine our current pension liability. On an adjusted basis, EPS was $0.73 compared with $0.64 a year ago.

Our discussion of consolidated results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effect of the nonoperational gain. In addition, the quarterly growth rates disclosed in this presentation are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. Our strategic investments in 4G LTE, FiOS, global IP, and cloud services continue to drive strong operating performance. We are executing well in these key growth areas. Overall, consistent topline growth along with a strong focus on cost efficiency and profitability resulted in double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share in the second quarter. In fact, we have posted double-digit earnings growth in five of the last six quarters.

Second-quarter adjusted EPS was $0.73, up 14.1%. Year-to-date, adjusted earnings per share were $1.41, representing 14.6% growth. As you know, our strategic focus is on building networks and platforms as the foundation for innovation and growth.

Underpinning our success is the consistent investment in these networks and platforms, which position us to take advantage of growth opportunities in the rapidly evolving Wireless and Wireline markets for broadband, video, and cloud services.

Operationally, we are focused on increasing value by delivering products and services to customers in the most efficient and effective way possible. In Wireless, our Share Everything Plans are a great example. We have simplified decisions for customers, making it easy to add new devices and manage their shared data usage.

Our FiOS Quantum offer, where customers can upgrade broadband speeds themselves, is another example of improving service quality and increasing operational efficiency. Throughout the entire business, there are many examples where Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles are being adopted and we are realizing efficiency gains in a number of areas, including customer care, supply chain, and system support.

As we move through the year, we are confident that successful execution in our key strategic areas will continue to drive incremental revenue and promote operating efficiency, resulting in sustainable growth in free cash flow and earnings.

Let me shift now to our second-quarter performance, hitting a few highlights. Our Wireless results were strong, once again effectively balancing growth and profitability. We added 941,000 retail postpaid connections, up nearly 40% sequentially. Service revenue grew more than 8%. EBITDA growth was up double digits and our EBITDA service margin was 49.8%, solidly within our annual margin guidance.

We also had a strong quarter of customer and revenue growth in FiOS. Revenues were up nearly 15% and we added 161,000 new subscribers in FiOS Internet and 140,000 in FiOS Video, roughly 20% more than we added in the second quarter last year. In Global Enterprise, strategic services revenue grew 4.8%.

Our consistent operating performance together with disciplined capital spending is driving higher free cash flow. Through the first half of the year, free cash flow increased by more than 20%, resulting in an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.

Now let's take a brief look at consolidated results, starting with slide four. Total operating revenue grew 4.3%, sustaining our solid topline growth performance. For the quarter, the increase in consolidated revenues coupled with effective cost management resulted in an 11.8% growth in adjusted operating income. On an adjusted basis, consolidated EBITDA increased to $10.5 billion and our EBITDA margin expanded by 90 basis points to 35.1%.

Now let's move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide five. We have emphasized that consistent investment in Wireless drives our leadership in network quality, reliability, and the overall customer experience. Our commitment to 4G LTE covers a wide range of activities, including the securing of necessary spectrum, the allocation and deployment of capital for both coverage and capacity, our leadership in fostering a robust device and application ecosystem, and the success of our Share Everything Plans in driving device adoption and stimulating usage.

Once again, our second-quarter wireless results demonstrate the effective execution of this strategy. Total Wireless revenues grew to $20 billion, presenting 67% of Verizon's consolidated revenue. We sustained strong service revenue growth of 8.3% making it the third consecutive quarter of growth in excess of 8%.

EBITDA increased to $8.5 billion and our EBITDA service margin expanded by 80 basis points year-over-year to 49.8%, representing another very strong quarter of growth and profitability.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at wireless revenue per account beginning on slide six. Service revenue growth continues to be driven by increasing connections, smartphone penetration gains, and data usage. The simplicity and value proposition of our Share Everything Plans is driving device adoption and stimulating higher usage, resulting in increases in both the number of devices and revenue per account.

During the second quarter, retail postpaid service revenue per account, or ARPA, grew 6.4% to $152.50 per month. We have 35 million postpaid accounts and the average connection per account increased to 2.7, up 5.5%.

Our Share Everything Plans have been very successful. The plans have been available since June 28 of last year and customer adoption has been very strong. In just one year, more than 36% of our postpaid accounts are on a Share Everything Plan. The value proposition is simple and straightforward and customers increasingly recognize the value of shared data across multiple devices.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide seven. As I highlighted earlier, we added 941,000 new retail postpaid connections, up from 677,000 in the first quarter and about 6% higher than a year ago. We also added 97,000 retail prepaid connections, so our retail net connections totaled just over 1 million in the quarter.

As I stated on our last earnings call, we expect to continue to see sequential quarterly net add improvement in 2013.

Total retail connections topped the 100 million mark in the quarter. Our industry-leading postpaid base stood at 94.3 million and we have more than 5.8 million prepaid connections.

Our connections growth was driven by another strong quarter of gross additions. Postpaid gross adds of 3.6 million were up 14.2% year-over-year. The number of customer upgrades also increased both sequentially and year-over-year with a postpaid upgrade rate of 7% for the quarter. We continue to expect that our annual upgrade rate will be about the same as last year. Our upgrades remain high quality with 36% of customers purchasing a smartphone for the first time.

We also maintained a high-quality mix within our postpaid net ads. We added 472,000 in the phone category. Of this total, 974,000 were smartphones with the balance representing the decline in basic phones. We added 371,000 Internet devices including tablets. The balance of just below 100,000 included Home Phone Connect, Home Fusion, and other connected devices.

Our churn metrics continue to be market leading. Retail postpaid churn was 0.93%. The sequential improvement was due primarily to an expected reduction in involuntary churn as discussed coming out of the first quarter.

Next, let's turn to slide 8 and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE. Postpaid device activations totaled 10.1 million in the quarter, representing both a sequential and year-over-year increase. We had a high-quality device mix once again with 88% of the activations being phones. Smartphone activations totaled 7.5 million and 72% of them were 4G LTE. The smartphone mix was fairly balanced; roughly 51% of the activations were iPhones. Our smartphone penetration continued to improve and we ended the quarter at over 64%.

We had another strong quarter for Internet devices. Activations of these devices, which include mobile hotspots, jet packs, and tablets, topped 1 million again this quarter.

Adoption of 4G LTE smartphones and devices continue to accelerate. One-third of our retail postpaid connections are now 4G LTE compared to just 12% one year ago. 46% of our smartphones and more than two-thirds of our Internet devices are 4G LTE. Currently 59% of our total data traffic is carried on the 4G LTE network, which is 5 times more efficient than the 3G network.

In terms of geographic coverage, we now cover 500 US markets with 4G LTE and have essentially completed our buildout by matching our 3G footprint. Our LTE network covers more than 99% of our 3G footprint and when you include our Rural America Partners, LTE is available to about 301 million people across the nation.

Throughout the rest of this year, we will continue to invest, adding capacity to our existing 4G coverage, ensuring that customers are receiving the quality and consistent reliability that they expect from our network and devices. I will cover our capital spending outlook in more detail during our discussion of cash flows.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting on slide 9. Our Wireline investments in platforms such as FiOS, global IP, security, cloud services, and machine to machine enable us to deliver the services and leading-edge applications and solutions that customers want. As these services scale, they will become increasingly efficient and will help improve our cost structure in the long run.

Total Wireline revenues decreased 2% in the second quarter as growth in FiOS and strategic services were offset by softer global enterprise and wholesale revenue from legacy transport services and CPE.

In terms of Wireline segment margin, second-quarter EBITDA increased to $2.2 billion and the margin was 22.2%, up 80 basis points sequentially. We continue to believe we can improve the Wireline segment margin in 2014.

Let's take a closer look at the revenue components starting on slide 10. In the consumer and mass markets business, we continue to see positive signs, highlighted by sustained FiOS revenue growth. Consumer revenues grew 4.7%, driven by FiOS, which now represents 71% of consumer revenue. Our overall consumer monthly ARPU increased 9.4% to more than $109 and we sustained a blended FiOS ARPU at over $150 per month. Two-thirds of our FiOS customers are triple play, which have a higher amount of recurring revenue per month.

As I highlighted earlier, we had a good quarter of FiOS customer growth. In terms of broadband, we had 161,000 new FiOS Internet additions and now have 5.8 million subscribers, representing penetration of 39%. Overall, net broadband subscribers were a positive 45,000.

In FiOS Video, we added 140,000 new subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 5 million, which is over 34% penetration. In addition to the customer growth and increased penetration, we are also gaining traction with our FiOS Quantum offers for higher broadband speeds. Sales of our FiOS Internet product at speeds in excess of 50 megabits per second increased during the quarter and existing customers continue to buy up in the speed.

At the end of the quarter, one-third of FiOS Internet customers subscribed to Quantum, with speeds ranging from 50 to 300 megabits per second.

We continue to make steady progress with copper migrations, increasing the number of service upgrades each quarter. During the second quarter, we converted more than 86,000 customers. Through the first half, our total was 169,000. So we are more than halfway through our target of 300,000 for the year. This network evolution initiative is important for us as we reduce our dependency on older technologies.

Aside from the maintenance expense savings and improvements in customer satisfaction, conversions to fiber also provide customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services, which could result in additional ARPU over time.

Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends. Retail residential connections declined by 5.2% compared with a loss of 6.6% at this time last year. We expect that continued strength of FiOS, the copper migration initiative, and the benefits of labor contracts and work rule flexibility will have a positive effect on Wireline profitability this year.

Let's move to our enterprise markets next on slide 11. In the second quarter, Global Enterprise revenue declined $184 million or 4.8%. CPE sales, which were down 34% year-over-year, represented $162 million of the decrease. Excluding the decline in CPE, Global Enterprise revenue was down less than 1% on a year-over-year basis.

Strategic services, which now comprise 57% of enterprise revenue, grew 4.8%. In the second quarter, the continued decline in legacy transport services more than offset the growth in strategic services.

We continue to work through economic challenges in the enterprise space. Many of our customers are focused on improving their cost structure, which can result in reduced services with us. In addition, many customers continue to be cautious regarding new investment decisions.

Moving next to Global Wholesale, quarterly revenues declined $141 million or 7.7%, due primarily to continued declines in the transport services. Again, our strategy is to better monetize our global IP and fiber network by driving a more efficient migration to next-generation Ethernet services.

In terms of profitability, while growth in the enterprise strategic services is improving the revenue mix, volume declines in the rest of Global Enterprise and wholesale continue to put pressure on Wireline margins. Through our Verizon Lean Six Sigma program, we are making good progress in our cost restructuring programs and retooling efforts, which we believe will improve our operating efficiency.

Let's turn to slide 12 for a discussion of our cash flow results. Our cash generation remained very strong. For the first half of the year, cash flows from operations increased by 12%. Free cash flow was up by more than 21%. Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $4 billion and were $7.6 billion year to date, up 2.5%. Wireless capital spending in the second quarter totaled $2.3 billion. Through the first half, Wireless CapEx totaled $4.3 billion, 8.6% higher than last year.

As I noted earlier, we have essentially completed our initial LTE buildout by matching our 3G footprint. Throughout the rest of the year, we will continue to invest by adding capacity to our existing coverage as we begin to deploy AWS spectrum throughout the network.

In Wireline, capital expenditures totaled $1.5 billion in the quarter and $2.9 billion year to date, which was down 5.9% from last year. Strong connections growth driven by 4G LTE and our Share Everything Plan has resulted in higher demand forecasts and the need for increased capital investment. As such, we are increasing our full-year capital spending outlook from flat at $16.2 billion to between $16.4 billion and $16.6 billion.

We remain focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency and we continue to expect our CapEx to revenue ratio for the full year to improve even with the additional investments in 4G LTE.

Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong. Total debt at the end of the second quarter was just under $50 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2 times.

Let's summarize on slide 13. Our second-quarter results showed consistently good performance in the key strategic growth areas, so at the halfway point, the key year-to-date financial and operating metrics were strong -- consolidated revenue growth of 4.2%, operating income up 15.6%, adjusted earnings of $1.41 per share, representing 14.6% growth.

In Wireless, service revenue growth up a very strong 8.4%; average revenue per account up 6.7%; retail postpaid additions of 1.6 million, up 16.5%; EBITDA growth of 14%; and an EBITDA service margin of 50.1%. We are on track to deliver on our 49% to 50% margin guidance for the full year.

In Wireline, consumer revenue growth of 4.5%, driven by FiOS growth of nearly 15%, 349,000 new subscribers in FiOS Internet and 309,000 in FiOS Video. We are on track to meet our 600,000 plus FiOS customer growth target.

Free cash flow generation is up better than 20% year-over-year and our balance sheet remains very strong. All in all, a very good first half. We are now focused on continuing the momentum, which should result in a strong second half of the year.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Mike so we can get to your questions.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Fran, thank you. Brad, we are now ready to take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thanks for taking the call. I guess two around Wireless. First, you talked about sequential improvements in adds in the third and fourth quarter. Given that Sprint is not going to be ceding a number of I-DEN subs into the market in what is traditionally not a strong third quarter, can you help us see why you are more confident there?

Second, can you talk of how you expect margins to track through the rest of the year? Given the upgrade comment you just made about being flat year-over-year, that's a little higher than I would've thought given the commentary or the change for the fourth quarter. Can you just talk about those? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Phil. Thank you. Good morning. So on the sequential third and fourth quarter, it's similar to the trend that we saw last year when coming out of the first and second quarter. I said we would potentially continue to see growth in the third and fourth quarter and again this is around what we expect the roadmap to be on additional device launches throughout the third and the fourth quarter. But the momentum that we have and you see that momentum coming out of second quarter -- and I will talk more to that in a second when we get to the margins -- we continue to see this high-quality subscriber coming onto the Wireless 4G LTE network and we don't see that changing at this point.

From a Sprint and porting ratio, I won't get into specific individual carriers, but again pretty consistently positive with all carriers from a porting ratio perspective.

On the margin side of the house, I think we have to put this in perspective. So again, we are fully engaged on the 49% to 50% guidance that I gave to you in the beginning of the year and if you look at the first half of the year at 50.1% for the first half and coming out of this quarter at 49.8%, I think you have to look at what's behind that.

So if you look at on a year-over-year basis just between the quarters, we improved our profitability by 80 basis points. In that, if you look at that, we moved 7.5 million smartphones; 1.6 million of that was additional smartphones over last year. Then if you just look at the 4G devices, we moved 3.1 million more 4G devices this your than we did a year ago.

And in that, if you look at the service revenue growth of 8.3%, that's up 100 basis points over where we were last year. So you can see the quality of these adds and if you take what we added in the quarter of net with 472,000 net phone, it's a pretty good indication of what we are going to drive from a margin perspective.

Then if you look at the network side of this with 4G LTE, we now have 33% of our customers on that network, 36% of our customers on Shared. We had a growth of 5.5% in the connected devices and I've said that our growth is really dependent upon two things. Number one, the 4G LTE network and as people move over there, the usage of stimulation drives them into higher tiers from a tier perspective on the Share plan.

Then of course the second piece is as they get on the Share plan they start to connect all these additional devices and you can see that with the continued momentum of our Internet category and some other things that will be coming to market similar to what we did in the fourth quarter last year as for the camera.

So combination of all these, Phil, I am very confident that we will continue on the margin track we set out at the beginning of the year.

PHIL CUSICK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks. Good morning. Fran, there's been obviously some buzz around Verizon investing in Canada. Maybe you can help us in terms of where you see the opportunity. Is this tied into a roaming footprint? Is it tied to maybe serving your own enterprise customer base or is there sort of a consumer retail presence you might have in mind tied to this?

And the second question on FiOS, very good volumes in what's generally a seasonally weak quarter. You talked about the 600,000 plus but it sounds like you have the opportunity to maybe be meaningfully above that result. I'm just wondering does this -- what you've seen in 2Q give you the opportunity to maybe set the bar higher for the year? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jason. On Canada again, let me emphasize this is really an exploratory exercise for us. As you all know, they have delayed their spectrum auction until January, so again we continue to just look at this market.

I think it's everything that you said, Jason, that we are kind of looking at. If you look at the population of Canada, about 70% of that population is between Toronto and Quebec. That's adjacent to the Verizon Wireless properties. Again if you look at the spectrum auction, it mirrors up exactly what we launched here in the United States on the 700 megahertz contiguous footprint.

So we're looking at all these but obviously some of the cautions here are the regulatory environment, a foreign investor coming into the Canadian market and what does that mean? So again, cautiously looking at it, not ready to make any announcements today and we continue to explore and have discussions, but at this point it's just really just an exploratory exercise.

On the FiOS volumes, again we put a lot of effort around continuing the superiority of the FiOS product. Bobby and his team have done a great job in around the FiOS Quantum offers and a lot of the stimulated growth that we see here is coming from the Quantum offers that we have and upgrading those Quantum offers to the 50 and 75 megabits per second services.

So look, we set a target for 600,000. Obviously if we can exceed that target we will. We are ahead of that target but I will tell you that the third quarter again is always a seasonally challenging quarter for us from a move perspective, so let's continue on the track that we are and if we can over deliver we will, but we set the target at 600,000.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good morning, guys. First, a quick question on Wireline and Wireless. First on Wireline, Fran in your prepared remarks you mentioned a couple of issues driving Wireline profitability that you see some improvement. I just wanted to see if you can give a little clarification. Are you talking at the year-over-year trends for the whole year or just the second half? If you could just sort of fill in those blanks for us, that would be great.

Secondly on the Wireless CapEx increase, could you just talk a little bit about what's driving that? Is it more 4G devices or is it more usage per device or is it maybe the competitive environment, what you are seeing from other carriers? But what's really driving the change there? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, John. In Wireline profitability, look, we set the bar that said our margin would be flat year-over-year. Going into obviously in the third and fourth quarter of last year, compared to what we think we can do this year and coming out of the second quarter, I think in the back half I have to improve the profitability in order to continue to make that guidance that we set out at the beginning of the year that said we would be flat on a margin basis. So I think we are on course to do that and mathematically the profit has to get better in the back half of the year in order to sustain that guidance.

As far as the CapEx on Wireless goes, there's a couple of things here that are driving us. So if you look at over the last three quarters, the growth that we've had, the number of 4G devices we've moved, and if you look at just the first half of this year versus the first half of last year, we have added 6.2 million more 4G devices on the 4G network than we had a year ago from just an overall sale perspective.

So when you look at that and you look at the usage, currently 59% of the data traffic is now running on the 4G network and that is being driven by 33% of the base. So again from just a growth perspective on the top line, we have always said again that as customers move into Shared and they realize the viability and speeds and the consistency of this 4G network, it's going to drive them to use higher usage. If you look at where video is going in the future, obviously that's going to continue the proliferation of the usage on this network.

We look out two years ahead of where we think our curve is going to be and given the past success we have had and the usage patterns and the amount of 4G devices that we've already moved and the roadmap that we see coming, we need to accelerate really the capacity that we previously thought and it's really all to drive what customers want.

So the incremental investment will more than pay for itself on topline growth from what I see and again this is really a shift in our capital discipline between Wireline and Wireless. We are going to maintain our lead on the most reliable, consistent 4G LTE network. So that's what's driving the increase for the CapEx.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning, Fran. Other Wireless service revenues were very strong, up about 20% year-over-year. I imagine you've got some MVNO and maybe roaming and other stuff. Perhaps you could just comment on the drivers of that and the sustainability of that.

Then on the enterprise side, you talked about continued cautious behavior and the cost focus. Do you see any signs of a second-half pickup? I think there's some better news on unemployment and generally macro trends improving in the second half. Are you seeing any of that or is it pretty much static from your point of view?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. On the other Wireless revenue, obviously what's included in that other Wireless revenue is our reseller base. I don't like to refer to them as MVNOs. That's a bad word for me but on the reseller base, it's really driven from the prepaid providers that we have on that side of the business. And again coming out of this quarter, we did a fairly substantial number of net adds there. And again, our prepaid strategy is between what we sell on the retail side under our own brand and we had a positive quarter again this quarter with 97,000 net adds.

But we also drive if you want to the lower end markets through resellers and mainly through the relationship with Walmart and through TracFone. So that drives a lot of volume and that has been good revenue growth for us.

The other things I would tell you, though, is that in addition to that, obviously roaming is in there. Machine-to-machine, which we don't really talk about much, we are gaining a lot of momentum around machine-to-machine and that is driving incremental revenue albeit very low individual unit per subscriber type revenues. But again as we start to gain momentum and sell hundreds and hundreds of thousands of these types of devices, that's going to contribute to those revenues and contribute to the overall growth of Wireless. So that's the component of that.

On the enterprise side, look, I understand the unemployment is there, but it is not large enough and steady enough to give me confidence that something is going to turn here in the near future. And again if you look at the enterprise space, mainly what everybody is focused on is cutting their costs and obviously when we talk about cutting costs in enterprise, they come to us and figure out how they can reduce their spend with Verizon and have us give them solutions that help them reduce their spend. Of course we are happy to do that but it does cause some topline pressure.

Also I think that again the uncertainty of what's going on around the government sector in twofold. Number one, a lot of this pressure in enterprise this quarter if you look the decline of 4.8%, over 60% of that was in the government sector for us this quarter. So there is a big impact from the sequestering activity and the pullback from both state and local governments and also within the federal government.

As I look forward, though, the uncertainty around this tax situation and if you think about it, we are now mid through the year, it's highly unlikely that we will get tax reform this year. So again we are faced with another cliff at the end of this year if Congress does not extend the tax provisions that are currently on the books for another year. So hopefully they will do that soon and put some of the uncertainty at rest at least until the next 18 months until we can get to all the difficult issues around tax reform, which as you know, we have a lot of subgroups working in Washington to help and give suggestions on how to get this done. But that's going to take some time.

So again it's hard for companies to say we are going to invest in new technologies and new things when we are not certain what the future of the tax laws hold for the books and records.

So I still don't think anything is going to change drastically from where we are and as I said before, at least from where I sit, the best we can hope for is a flat performance. If you take CPE out of the equation this quarter, we are at a 0.8% decline. So that's probably about where we will be, zero to slightly decline or slightly positive is kind of where I am at at this point in time.

SIMON FLANNERY: Very helpful, thanks.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning. Fran, if you could give us the update on the net debt calculation for Verizon Wireless. And then with respect to the business, I think the metrics that you threw out there on the LTE network implies about 1.8 more usage on the LTE network versus the 3G network. I was wondering if you could expand on that a little bit more and maybe give us a sense of what the usage trends are for your customers and as they move into the Shared Data Plan, maybe give us a sense of that kind of stimulus that you are seeing on the consumption front. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Mike. On the update of the net debt for Wireless, gross debt is at $10.1 billion and net debt is $9.7 billion. And as you know, we did a distribution at the end of June of a total of $7 billion out of the partnership to both of the owners.

Also just to keep in focus here, we have about $1.5 billion of Wireless debt coming due in the fourth quarter this year and another approximately $3.5 billion coming due in the first quarter of next year and we plan to pay that debt off at this point in time.

On the LTE network, Mike, you are right on. And obviously what is happening is as people come from the 3G network over to the 4G network, you can see that incremental usage, whether it's a smartphone or a jet pack or a dongle and as they start to share all this data, and the video consumption is increasing year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.

So again as we -- others in the industry have put out their projections of usage over the 4G data. If you look at some of the things that people have printed and the escalation that the future holds from a data consumption standpoint as we start to move into more symmetry between in the home and out of the home content. We don't see that slowing.

So again, yes, we do see an incredible jump when someone moves from 3G to 4G in the usage that they have on their smartphones and other devices. So that's what's driving the growth.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks. Fran, maybe just a comment on Wireless margin. I know you've got the sort of 49% to 50% expectation for the full year. Last year the fourth quarter had very high volumes to sort of really drag down margins a bit. Are you getting comfort that the new upgrade policy should have a muting impact on that?

Then just secondly on FiOS competition, maybe just some comments regarding the triple play pricing environment out there and also how well you're doing in the MDU market. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So on the Wireless margins, obviously again we are very confident around the 49% to 50%. As far as the fourth quarter of last year, you have to keep in mind it was the first quarter that there was a free iPhone on the Verizon Wireless Network. We won't have that repeated this fourth quarter. That's not to say that we don't see increasing volume. And again, I continue to say that we will see incremental net adds through the third and into the fourth quarter.

But from a margin perspective if you look at just year-over-year and the amount of volume we have moved, we actually ate through all that volume and improved the profitability of this business. That goes into managing the entire business.

So from an upgrade policy standpoint, some other things that we will be launching -- you probably saw Verizon Edge and some other options that we will have on payment plans for our customers to acquire a smartphone. All of these things considered, we are very, very positive on the margin progress and the profitability progress of Verizon Wireless and the continued growth of Verizon Wireless.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Just on the Edge comment, is that something that you are hearing your customers actually demanding in the sort of equipment financing option?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so if you look back here at time, first we were the first carrier to launch LTE technology. We were the first ones to launch the shared pricing around LTE technology. We launched in the fourth quarter of last year an installment pay plan on tablets. That's was something our customers were asking for. We delivered that to them and at that point in time, we started to look at and I said we were looking at other options for smartphones.

We've done a lot of focus groups in the last six months. We've done a lot of market research and we've come that says yes our customers are asking for another option, twofold. Number one, we have a lot of customers in the technology Edge that want to be able to upgrade sooner than they would under our historical legacy subsidy model, if you will. And we have other customers who quite honestly don't want to pay upfront for the large cost of the phone. They'd rather pay over time.

So I'm not going to get into all the details of Verizon Edge but I will let Wireless do that, but that's something that our customers have been asking for and I think we have a differentiated plan to launch to the market. And Verizon Wireless will have more to say on that.

Going back to your other question on triple play and MDU, obviously we continue to gain momentum here. Look, this business has always been competitive around the triple play, but I think what is differentiating us right now is the superiority of our product with fiber into the home and as you get that fiber into the home, I think what customers are realizing and we see this with the copper to fiber migration, when they move and they see the speed that they can get on just their Internet capacity, we are seeing customers upgrade.

What I have said is we are seeing our legacy copper customers who we have migrated over to the FiOS network, they are paying between $10 and $15 more in ARPU a month after about 60 days on our network because they are upgrading freely into that 30 and 50 megabits per second service.

So that is really what is differentiating us in the market. We will continue to advertise around that superiority and I think that momentum will carry us into the third and the fourth quarter.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, just a quick follow-up on the FiOS side. Is there a point at which you are going to migrate to an all IP video network?

FRAN SHAMMO: Obviously we've already started that with the copper to fiber migration, but that's going to be quite some time in order to deactivate the copper switches and take all that plant and equipment out. We have the plans to do that but that's not something that going to be done within this year or next year.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great, thanks a lot, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Thank you for taking the question. Most of my questions have been answered but I did want to ask about prepaid, Fran. With AT&T doing the I/O and now with Leap's purchase and Cricket in the fold and T-Mobile and Sprint obviously having their own brands, is there any interest on your part in launching an independent prepaid brand under the Verizon -- separate from Verizon?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. Look, I think from a prepay perspective we are very happy with how we approach this market between our own prepaid product, which obviously you've heard me talk about in the past, which is just strictly on our 3G network. We do not offer prepaid on the 4G LTE network. As I said, we will become more aggressive over time in the prepaid market on that 3G network. Because again as we look at the 3G versus the 4G and we move 3G customers into our 4G network, we want to make sure that we keep that 3G network as full as possible. Because when you think from an investment return, we're not investing any more in that network and the fuller we can keep that network without detrimenting the service, the contribution margin of that network is very, very high.

So prepaid is really the pillar of how we will continue to utilize that 3G network. So you will see us become more aggressive around that when we need to be. You saw us change some pricing in the last two quarters around prepaid and that has stimulated some growth for us.

As I said previously, our other path is through our resellers for the lower end market. I don't see the need at this point to do a secondary brand around the Verizon Wireless Network. We have built our brand around the quality, the reliability, a superior network. I don't think that a secondary brand helps our overall brand at that point.

The other thing I will say is I'm not going to comment on anything around the AT&T deal with Leap but I will put to bed the rumors out there that Verizon Wireless may be interested in that asset. And we are not interested in that asset.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. I am not going to ask you about Leap but that deal is spectrum-driven and you guys have indicated that you are starting to deploy your AWS 1 spectrum. Maybe that's happening a little sooner than we thought although you are seeing network traffic ramp very quickly.

I'm just curious if you can maybe give us a status update on your spectrum portfolio. Do you still feel like you have sufficient spectrum to get to the next auction? Do you still see an opportunity to buy spectrum in the market right now from other carriers? Have you started to think about maybe some supplemental solutions, for example, maybe revisiting Wi-Fi as another way to put capacity into your network?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Brett. Around spectrum, we did our AWS deal last year and that put us in a very good spot for our 4G LTE strategy. We started to launch AWS last year. We started to pre-position that. We are accelerating the positioning of the AWS based on my comments before around the usage around Wireless. But again, we are very comfortable with our spectrum holdings and we are in good shape for three to four years. Obviously we will participate in the auction with the FCC here targeted for 2014 around the broadcast licenses. That is something that we will participate in, but we are not under any spectrum pressure.

If you look at our frequencies and the way we deployed our CDMA spectrum, we can actually take very small slivers out of that CDMA spectrum and reallocate that to our 4G LTE spectrum on a needed basis. That's where we get into this balancing act between the 3G network and the 4G network. But we are very satisfied with our holdings for the next three to four years.

Obviously we are always opportunistic in spectrum acquisition and we do actually buy spectrum every quarter. You probably don't see it because we do little markets here and there. But look, we are always opportunistic, but at this point we are satisfied and there's nothing out there at this point other than the auction that we are concentrating on.

BRETT FELDMAN: On Wi-Fi, anything new there maybe involving your cable partners?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, from a Wi-Fi perspective, obviously we always like people to offload when they are in their home in a secured Wi-Fi network. You've heard me talk before about Wi-Fi networks are not secure in the public domain. They have a purpose for us in certain instances around major sporting events and so forth, but our customers are very concerned about their privacy and security. That is why they ride the LTE network as much as they do.

But we do want offload in certain circumstances and so that does relieve some of the spectrum. We obviously -- from just a utilization standpoint for people that are in their homes, it's not good if they are inefficient to run off of the LTE network. They should shift over to their Wi-Fi network in their house. So we do encourage that but again not major massive public Wi-Fi is interesting for our customers at least in this point in time from a security standpoint.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great, thanks for taking the question.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. Just a couple, if I could. Just following up a little bit on that, Fran, I was wondering if you could kind of give us a status update on the activities and development that's going on inside that joint innovation entity with the Comcast group and what progress if any is being made on some of the digital content rights stuff?

I guess second would be kind of along those lines, could you kind of elaborate a little bit on your relationship with NFL and kind of some of the strategy behind that content relationship and if that's the beginning of a series of potential new moves to acquire content?

If I could, just one quick last one. I noticed strategic services sales in enterprise were a little over 6% growth year-over-year last quarter that kind of slowed down into the 4% zip code this quarter. I know overall enterprise has been fairly soft but strategic services has been sort of a core strength. If you could kind of address that slowdown it would be helpful. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Around our joint venture with the cable companies, obviously our converged solutions team has been working and defining consumers as to what they want both in the home and outside the home. Obviously what we are learning is the 4G LTE network plays a very critical role in that. We continue to work with them. We have expanded into 968,000 Verizon Wireless stores across the US and we have about 2500 indirect locations. The marketing material and we continue to showcase these types of products.

But I will say that as we continue to work through this, it's hard for Verizon Wireless to sell a cable product outside of the FiOS footprint because it's new and it's hard for the cable companies to sell a Wireless product outside the footprint because of distribution channels.

So as we continue to work through this, we are gaining some momentum here. But I think the one last point from all of this is we are obviously very focused on the content rights and you come into the NFL agreement.

The NFL agreement we think is just a new way of how content rights can be delivered into the Wireless segment. Obviously our strategy is around both type of multicasting a live sporting event and you saw our comments that the 2014 Super Bowl will be a multicast type event to our Wireless customers. So that's really the breakdown of the wall between what can be delivered in the home and out of home. Obviously we now have the rights to take some of the NFL live games out of the home and deliver them on the mobile devices.

So from a content standpoint, this has to develop obviously over time. The other point here around content is we are starting to see where we are getting increase from content providers that they may want to pay for their content rather than having the consumer pay. Those models are still being worked, but we will see where that goes. But I look at that as the old 1-800 number where the actual vendor pays for the usage and not the customer. So we will see how that strategy develops over the course of time.

As far as our strategic services go, we continue to have good momentum in our strat services as we refine exactly what we are doing. We have very good momentum in the Terremark and the Hughes platforms and around our cloud services. The slowdown quite honestly has been around our PIP exercise and that's more of -- it is growing but it's more a price compression within this industry, so we are facing some of that going forward. And we knew we were going to face some price compression around PIP and we have to accelerate on the other strategic services to outpace that. So other than that, we have good momentum on strat services.

DAVID BARDEN: Fran, just to clarify, PIP is --?

FRAN SHAMMO: IP-based solutions.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Jefferies.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks for taking the question. Can you just give us an update on your expectations for VoLTE?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, we are still on course for VoLTE. We will start testing and have our first handset in the market at the end of this year. Then we will probably commercial launch sometime next year. But again, as I have said in the past, the critical piece for us is that we have to make sure that our 4G LTE coverage footprint from a VoLTE standpoint equates to our 3G footprint, because the VoLTE call is not backwards compatible with the CDMA network. So when you establish a call on VoLTE within our network, if you move outside of the LTE network, you will have a hard drop on that call. Obviously that's not something that our customers would expect from a premium provider like Verizon Wireless.

So we are taking our time here. We will thoroughly test this but we are on track to commercially launch sometime in the first half of next year. Then taking that out as I've said, at the end of next year, we are on track to have our first only LTE handset to be able to provide to the marketplace as well. So we are still on track with our VoLTE strategy but it is a critical one for us to make sure that we get right when we launch.

TOM SEITZ: So the implication though then is that the 4G network is going to be essentially everywhere that the 3G network is by sometime in first half of next year?

FRAN SHAMMO: The 4G network is everywhere, as I said in my opening remarks, 99% of the coverage of our 4G network is equivalent to our 3G network. But now we have to go back and fill in that capacity to make sure that from a voice call perspective it will hand off because voice is different than the data piece. So we just have to make sure that a customer who is on 3G today when they go to VoLTE, they would see no difference in their service from 3G to 4G.

TOM SEITZ: Okay, great. If I could, could I just follow up on Dave's question? There were press reports that ESPN was considering subsidizing mobile video consumption and you sort of alluded to that as well. How soon do you think we will see a material third-party payer model? Is it this year? Is it next? Is it a couple years out? Can you just sort of frame the timeframe of what you are thinking about?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, I think the big barrier right now is how does the content provider get the value of how many people watch their content on a mobile device to be able to go back to their advertisers in order to monetize that content. Right now, that's where the barrier is and we are working on that. But until that gets solved, I think this model will be slow to come at this point in time. Now slow to come, I'm thinking maybe next year, but it is certainly not any time in this year that that model will break through.

Because they have to recognize the benefit back to their advertisers to be able to monetize that content into our network. But it is something that's being discussed. They realize that the linear model will not work as it does in TV. In the Wireless market, you can't assume that someone is going to pay $8 a sub on 100 million subs, so that model does not work. So we are looking at other models. But the barrier is how do you measure everything to get back to the advertisers for the perceived value on that content?

TOM SEITZ: Thanks very much for that color.

OPERATOR: Amir Rozwadowski, Barclays.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you very much and good morning folks. On the capital expenditure front, on the back of this capital expenditure rise for the year, I wanted to ask how we should think about the capital intensity of the business going forward. It does seem as though your competitors are healthily ramping their efforts to try and improve service quality. Do you feel as though you will need to continue to put your foot on the gas in order to maintain the quality of your network here, Fran?

FRAN SHAMMO: Let's put this in perspective. We have moved our consensus by $200 million to $400 million, so this is not a huge step up in our capital spend. We just wanted to make sure everybody realized that we were going to accelerate some of the 4G LTE.

But as we have said in the past and if you look at our results through the first half of this year, we continue to really be disciplined around the capital investment across our businesses but also within the Wireline segment. So you see that come down year-over-year. We expect that trend to continue so that will offset some of the pressure we may see on the Wireless side. So I don't anticipate that there's going to be any major accelerations, but again it's too soon to tell where we are going to come out in 2013.

I will talk more about that in the coming quarters, but right now the focus is on this year and it's between $200 million and $400 million increment.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you. Then if I may, we've clearly seen a pickup in terms of your Shared Data Plans. I think you mentioned that it's more than 36% of your subscribers are on these plans. I was thinking from a strategic perspective as we've seen increased promotional activities by some of your competitors to try and wean subscribers onto their networks, do you feel as though this is a potential mode in terms of protecting your subscriber base from some of these more aggressive pricing plans that are available in the market? Should we expect to see more promotional activity to try and ratchet this sort of percent of subscribers on Shared Data Plans up in the coming quarters?

FRAN SHAMMO: Look, this industry has always been an extremely competitive industry and obviously some of the promotions around unlimited have been there for the last year when we launched Shared pricing and we continue to take market share. We continue to grow our revenue very strongly.

Look, we will -- Verizon Wireless will do one thing very well. They will compete very well in the market, but we are a balanced company. We will compete, grow revenue, grow profitability, and grow our subscribers. At the end of the day, customers make choice not really just based on price but the quality of the network and that is what we've built our brand on.

So quality of the network, consistency of the network, the reliability of the network, the value that we provide to our customers through these Shared plans, and again, will we do promos here and there? Of course. As I said before, we will launch the Verizon Edge, which will give our customers yet another choice of how do they want to enter onto the best network there. So I think the key here is give our customers choice and continue with what we built our company on, which is the strongest network.

AMIR ROZWADOWSKI: Thank you very much for incremental color.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: Brad, we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: Thanks, just two questions on Wireless. Fran, you talked about the fact that your LTE network is enabling you to attract the higher quality customers, which has clearly been the case for a long time with your network. But do you have any evidence of that on maybe credit scores? Are you finding with what you've done with LTE and the Shared Data Plans that you are you think attracting higher credit quality scores, maybe losing lower credit quality score customers?

Secondly on the Shared Data Plans, can you maybe talk about what you are seeing in terms of customers needing to increase their data buckets or are many customers bumping up against headroom or do you expect to see an acceleration of that in the next year? Or is it more like two to three years out? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the high-quality, obviously we give a lot of our customers choice of various price plans and how to enter into our superior network here. Of course, credit scores have always been a component of that and I won't really get into how we differentiate the credit scores, but obviously you can see that from the growth that we have and the revenue growth that we have, this is not a major issue for us. We watch this very closely, but we are gaining customers across all aspects of the business. Let's just put it that way.

Shared Data Plan as far as acceleration of data usage, again what we see and if you have experienced this yourselves, we can continually communicate with our customers throughout the month as to when they get to their usage. And then when they get up into that 90%, we give them the ability to upgrade through their phone to the next tier. We see some very good results from that. Customers are upgrading when they need to.

So again based on our trajectory of data usage, especially with where we see video going, we continue to see the uptake in the Shared plan will continue. The usage will continue to accelerate and our revenue growth will be reflective of that.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

MICHAEL STEFANSKI: That's all the time we have for questions but before we end the call, I would like to turn the call back to Fran for some closing comments.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. I just want to leave just a couple few points of emphasis here. So our strategic investments and operational execution drove strong financial performance in the first half of this year. While we are pleased with the overall performance, we obviously know we have more work to do.

We are committed to driving shareholder value by continuing to execute our strategy and improve on the fundamentals of the business. We are focused on delivering superior customer service and providing the best portfolio of products along with the most reliable and consistent performing network. Our focus is to capture incremental revenue growth in our key strategic areas while we also transform our service delivery and cost structure.

As always, we will continue to be very disciplined around our capital investments, investing in those platforms for the innovation and the growth of the future. Through this strategy and execution model, we expect to drive incremental cash flow and earnings growth both in the second half of this year and into the future.

Thank you again for joining us and everybody, have a great day.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130725e97i001bc
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,840 words
   PD
18 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Michael Stefanski, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.

MIKE STEFANSKI, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. This is Mike Stefanski, and I'm here with our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo. Thank you for joining us this morning.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

I'd also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential. There were no special items of a non-operational nature included in our reported earnings results for the first quarter of either this year or last.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone. We entered this year with strong momentum and we are seeing our strategic investments driving an excellent start to 2013. Earnings per share of $0.68 was up 15.3%. Our investment returns are improving and becoming more evident in our results.

Our strategic focus is on building networks and platforms as the foundation for innovation and growth. By investing consistently in these networks and platforms, we have positioned the business to take advantage of growth opportunities in the rapidly evolving markets for broadband, video and cloud services.

Our investments in 4G LTE enable us to provide a superior customer experience in wireless broadband and video. Our investments in fiber to the home enable a leading broadband and video experience to FiOS customers through higher speeds and capacity. Our investments in global IP, managed services, cloud computing, security and machine-to-machine enable our ability to serve the complex needs of large enterprise customers around the globe.

Our operational focus is on execution, which means performing the basics every day. In short, our approach is to meet customer needs by delivering products and services in the most efficient and effective way.

Our implementation of Share Everything plans is simplifying decisions for customers, making it easier to upgrade and add devices while eliminating the need for separate data plans for each device. Our FiOS Quantum offer and copper-to-fiber migration initiative are examples of improving service quality and increasing operational efficiency.

In enterprise, our ongoing retooling efforts, which include product rationalization and systems consolidation, will result in a more efficient and effective service delivery model. Verizon Lean Six Sigma principles are being adopted across the entire business, and we are beginning to see efficiency gains in many areas, including customer care, supply chain and systems support, to name a few.

As we move through the year, successful execution in our key strategic areas will drive incremental revenue and better operating efficiency, resulting in continued growth in free cash flows and earnings.

Let me shift now to our first-quarter performance, hitting a few highlights. Our Wireless results were strong, striking a favorable balance between growth and profitability. We added 677,000 retail postpaid connections, up 35% year-over-year. Service revenue grew 8.6%, and our EBITDA service margin was 50.4%, which was right in line with our guidance.

FiOS also had a strong quarter of customer and revenue growth. We added 188,000 new FiOS Internet subscribers and had 169,000 FiOS video additions. FiOS revenue grew 15.1% and ARPU was over $150 a month.

In Global Enterprise, Strategic Services revenue continued to increase, up 6% year-over-year. Free cash flows in the first quarter increased $1.5 billion or 64% on the strength of higher cash from operations.

Now let's take a brief look at consolidated results, starting with slide four. Total operating revenue grew 4.2%, sustaining our solid top-line growth performance. For the quarter, the increase in consolidated revenues, coupled with effective cost management, resulted in 19.8% growth in operating income. Consolidated EBITDA also grew at a double-digit rate, up 12.1%, while our EBITDA margin expanded by 240 basis points to 35.1%.

Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide five. Our consistent investment in Wireless drives our leadership in network quality, reliability and the overall customer experience. Five years ago, we committed to 4G LTE as the next-generation technology, and we have taken all the necessary steps to take advantage of this growth opportunity. These actions include securing necessary spectrum, allocating capital to deploy 4G LTE nationwide, fostering a robust device and application ecosystem and introducing a revolutionary pricing framework with our Share Everything plans for consumer and small business. Once again, through solid execution of our strategy, the Wireless results speak for themselves.

We also knew that by taking advantage of the unique market growth opportunities in the fourth quarter, we would quickly realize the benefit. Our first-quarter results prove this out. Total Wireless revenues grew to $19.5 billion and now represent two thirds of Verizon's consolidated revenue. Our strong momentum in terms of connections growth and smartphone penetration drove first-quarter service revenue growth of 8.6%.

As expected, profitability rebounded quickly following the high quality device activations of the fourth quarter. EBITDA grew to $8.4 billion, up 18.1%, and our industry-leading EBITDA service margins expanded to 50.4%, up 410 basis points over the first quarter of 2012.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at Wireless revenue and accounts, beginning on slide six. The increase in service revenue was driven by a combination of factors, including customer growth and increased smartphone penetration. The popularity and simplicity of our Share Everything plans is driving increases in both the revenue and number of devices per account.

During the first quarter, retail postpaid service revenue per account, or ARPA, grew to more than $150 per month, an increase of 6.9%. Connections per account increased to 2.67, up 5.1%. In just nine months, 30% of our postpaid account base is on a Share Everything plan. Customers have quickly recognized the value of shared data across multiple devices.

In late January, we also introduced Share Everything plans for small business, which allow for up to 25 devices per account. In terms of the number of postpaid accounts, our Share Everything plans have resulted in consolidation of accounts. Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide seven.

In the first quarter, we added 677,000 new retail postpaid connections, an increase of 35.1% year-over-year. Last year, postpaid connections increased sequentially each quarter, and we expect a similar pattern of accelerating growth in 2013. We have an industry-leading 98.9 million retail connections, with 93.2 million postpaid and 5.7 million prepaid. Our postpaid connections represent 34.9 million accounts.

Postpaid gross adds in the first quarter totaled 3.5 million, up 15.6% year-over-year. In terms of upgrades, 6.7% of our postpaid connections base upgraded during the quarter.

Our churn metrics continue to be market-leading. Retail postpaid churn was 1.01%. During the quarter, we implemented several process improvements in the area of bad debt collections related to our Lean Six Sigma initiative. These improvements resulted in an acceleration of involuntary churn, which we expect will be lower in future periods.

Now let's turn to slide eight and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE. In the first quarter, we activated 9.7 million postpaid devices, 87% of which were phones. Smartphone activations totaled 7.2 million, and 68% of these were 4G LTE. We activated 4 million iPhones; half of them were 4G LTE and the other half were 3G.

Our smartphone penetration increased to 61%, up from 58% at the end of last year. A key point of differentiation for us and incremental revenue is the improved mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations. In the first quarter, gross adds or "new-to-Verizon" customers represented about 28% of the total smartphone activations, much higher than the 22% to 24% range we reported in the first half of 2012.

We also have incremental revenue opportunities with upgrades. About 38% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smartphone for the first time. I would also note that when customers upgrade from a 3G to a 4G LTE smartphone, they are usually in a shared data plan, enabling higher usage and additional device adoption, which ultimately drives higher revenue per account.

Customer adoption of 4G LTE continues to accelerate. At the end of the first quarter, 4G LTE phones and devices represented more than 28% of total retail postpaid connections. 40% of smartphones and 63% of Internet devices are now 4G LTE, and 54% of our total data traffic is already on the 4G LTE network, which is five times more efficient than 3G.

In terms of 4G LTE geographic coverage, we are by far the market leader. Today, our 4G LTE service is available in 491 markets, covering 287 million POPs, representing more than 95% of our 3G coverage. We will continue to leverage our advantage and expect that our 4G LTE footprint will effectively match our 3G network by the end of the second quarter.

Network quality and reliability will continue to be the hallmarks of the Verizon brand, and we will continue to invest to maintain our leadership position.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting on slide nine. In Wireline, our investments in FiOS, global IP, security, cloud and machine-to-machine provide powerful platforms to deliver the services and leading-edge applications and solutions that our customers are looking for. These services are increasingly efficient, and in the long run, will help improve our cost structure.

In the Consumer and Mass Markets business, we continue to see positive signs, highlighted by 15.1% FiOS revenue growth this quarter. In addition to increasing FiOS penetration, we are focused on improving our operating and capital efficiency. We are also making good progress in our copper-to-fiber migration program.

In enterprise, we continue to see mixed performance. Our strategic service revenue grew 6%, but declines in core services like voice and data transport, as well as CPE, more than offset the increase.

In terms of Wireline profitability, first-quarter EBITDA was $2.1 billion, and the margin was 21.4%, roughly flat sequentially if we set aside the impacts of Sandy in the fourth quarter.

As we have previously indicated, we do not expect much in the way of total Wireline EBITDA margin expansion in 2013. However, the continued strong performance of FiOS, our copper-to-fiber initiative and the benefits of new union contracts give us confidence that consumer and mass markets will contribute positively to wireline profit this year. In Enterprise, while growth in strategic services continues to improve the revenue mix, secular declines in both retail and wholesale voice and data transport services are putting pressure on wireline profitability. We believe that our ongoing product rationalization efforts, and other retooling efforts, will ultimately improve our cost structure, and result in a fundamentally stronger enterprise business. Looking ahead, we are positioned to improve the wireline margin in 2014 based on better contributions from our strategic investments, which include RedBox Instant, Hughes Telematics, and Verizon Digital Media Services. Let's take a closer look at the revenue components, starting with Mass Markets on Slide 10.

FiOS is the foundation of our growth strategy in the consumer market and it shows in our first-quarter results. Consumer revenues grew 4.3%, driven by increased FiOS revenue, which now represents 69% of consumer revenue. FiOS is also the key driver of growth in overall consumer ARPU, which increased to more than $107 per month, up 9.5%. FiOS ARPU remains at over $150 per month, and two thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple-play, with voice, Internet and video services.

As I highlighted earlier, FiOS customer growth was strong in the first quarter. In terms of broadband, we had 188,000 new FiOS Internet additions in the quarter and now have 5.6 million subscribers, representing penetration of 38%. Overall, net broadband subscribers were a positive 99,000, marking a sharp improvement over the past several quarters. In FiOS video, we added 169,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.9 million, which is 34% penetration.

We continue to make steady progress upgrading copper services to fiber, increasing the number of upgrades each quarter. We are off to a strong start, converting about 83,000 homes in the first quarter, with a target of 300,000 for the year. This network evolution initiative is important for us as we systematically reduce our dependence on older technologies throughout the business. Aside from the obvious expense benefits and improvements in customer satisfaction, the conversion to fiber also provides customers the opportunity to purchase FiOS services, which could result in additional ARPU over time.

Another positive result in the quarter was the steady improvement in our residential connection trends. Retail residential connections declined by 5.6% compared with a loss of 6.8% at this time last year.

Let's move to our Enterprise Markets next on slide 11. In the first quarter, Global Enterprise revenue declined $99 million or 2.6%. CPE sales, which we are deemphasizing, represented all of the decrease. Strategic Services, which comprise 56% of Global Enterprise revenue, totaled $2.1 billion, up 6%. Continued declines in voice and data transport offset this increase.

In the enterprise market, we continue to work through economic challenges. We still see cautious behavior on the part of many enterprise customers in terms of new contracts and investment decisions. As we move through the year, we are hopeful that companies will be able to be more definitive about capital commitments and will renew their investing activities.

Moving next to Global wholesale, first-quarter revenues declined $134 million or 7.2%, due primarily to continued declines in transport services. Again, our strategy is to better monetize our global IP network by driving a more efficient migration to next-generation ethernet services.

I would like to turn now to slide 12 to discuss our cash flow results. Our free cash flow in the first quarter was very strong. Cash flows from operations grew $1.6 billion or 26.4%, and free cash flow increased to $3.9 billion. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $3.6 billion, essentially flat year-over-year. We remain focused on improving investment returns and capital efficiency, and we are expecting our CapEx-to-revenue ratio for the full year to decline.

In Wireless, capital spending totaled $2 billion, up 5.7%. Within our overall spending outlook, we expect to allocate more capital to 4G LTE to further expand coverage and add capacity. With regard to capacity, we have started to incur some capital costs associated with the AWS spectrum, which we expect to deploy in our network later in the year.

In Wireline, capital spending was $1.4 billion in the quarter, down 6.7%. Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong. Our total debt at the end of the first quarter was $52.9 billion. Net debt was $47.4 billion, and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2 times.

Let's summarize on slide 13. As we stated earlier, we entered 2013 with great confidence. Our strategic investments and operational execution drove a solid financial start to the year. We expect to sustain this positive momentum throughout 2013 and into 2014.

We are committed to driving shareholder value by executing our plans and improving the fundamentals of the business. Our focus is to capture incremental revenue growth in our key strategic areas. At the same time, we will continue to transform our service delivery and cost structure through the Verizon Lean Six Sigma initiative. As always, we will continue to invest in a disciplined manner, ensuring that we have the necessary platforms for innovation and growth. Through this strategy and execution model, we expect to drive cash flow and earnings growth.

Before I turn the call back to Mike, I want to take a moment to say a word about the tragedy that has unfolded this week around the Boston Marathon. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. This is a very tough situation for so many people. We also want to thank our employees in the Boston area for their work and support of emergency personnel and law enforcement authorities. Verizon, of course, will continue to do whatever it can to help.

With that, I will turn the call over to Mike for your questions.

MIKE STEFANSKI: Thank you, Fran. Brad, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. Fran, maybe a couple questions. First, on Wireless, a very good margin result this quarter. I guess when we think about the prior guide you had given, 49% to 50% margins for the year, I think a lot of people sort of worry that we will have good margins in the first three quarters of the year, only to give a lot of it back in the fourth quarter.

I guess related to this, last week you announced the intention to lengthen the handset upgrade cycle to 24 months. A couple questions. A, was that contemplated in this guidance? And then B, just given the timing of that, which I think kicks in in September, do you think that sort derisks the fourth quarter relative to the historical experience?

And then second question, I guess I will take a crack at the Vodafone question. There has been obviously a lot more noise recently on the future of that relationship. And I'm just wondering, is this the press and the analyst community really getting ahead of themselves, or has there been some sort of change related to the partners' desire and urgency to find a resolution? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jason. Good morning, everyone. Look, on the 49% to 50%, if you recall back to what I said in the first quarter is we said that we expected Verizon Wireless, for the full year, to be within the range of 49% to 50%. Obviously, when I do something like that, I understand exactly what is on our plate of strategy for the year.

And we had said before that we look at all of our policies and procedures on a normal basis, and this was one of those policies that we knew we were going to change. And as you said, Jason, it is going to become effective September 1, and in essence what it does, it lengthens our upgrade cycle from the minus four months from contract equal to the contract, so full 24 months to be eligible for that upgrade.

So I think that is all factored in with what I have said coming into this year, and that is why I was confident with the 49% to 50% on the full-year basis.

With respect to Vodafone, obviously, we made a public announcement on April 2, and I would reference all of you back to that announcement. Of course, as we've always said before, we are very interested in acquiring the 45% stake in Verizon Wireless that we don't already own. I will say, though, that there has been a lot of speculation about the tax consequences of a purchase of this 45%, and we are extremely confident that such a transaction could be accomplished in a manner that is very tax-efficient and would not result in a tax on the gain in that stake.

So beyond that, I don't think there is really much else to say. So with that, I will pass it on to the next question.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Fran, a couple of quick things. On the enterprise, just any impact or comments on sequestration. Is that having any material impact on some of the comments you made about cautious spending?

And then onto quad-play. We've seen both in Europe and also with some of the comments out of DISH this week around focusing on bundling wireless with video and with other wireline products. You talk a lot about your triple play. You have the cable JV. Can you just give us your broader thoughts on bundling wireless more closely with some of the FiOS and other products, either now or down the road? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Simon. Thank you. On the enterprise side of the house, obviously, we are seeing a lot of issues around enterprise. I think the sequestering has probably hit more of the government and state side of the house than it has the overall enterprise side of the house.

But on a much broader perspective around enterprise, obviously, we believe that our platforms are there. We're having good growth in the areas of our cloud and our network strategies. Our security is still growing at a good pace. But obviously, the voice and the data continue to offset this. And I don't really see a change there, given the fact that we really have not seen a consistent and steady economic growth profile. We have not seen a consistent and steady employment rate. I still think there is some uncertainty out there around what is going to happen with tax reform.

So, again, I believe that most companies are still in this cost-cutting mode, really not investing, but trying to get their P&L squared away. So until the overall macro economics change, I think we are going to be in this situation at least for the near term here.

And then on the quad play, obviously, we believe that the quad play is extremely important. That is why we entered into the cable agreement that we did a year ago, with the cross-selling agreements and also with the joint innovation that we have agreed to do. Because I think that this is very important, because as we look at how do we innovate and bring content in and outside of the home on a seamless perspective, this is where that all comes into play. And I think DISH has just again supported what we knew a year ago, which was this strategy is the right strategy.

The other thing I will say is that with this, it also supports the fact that you have a foreign investor who wants to come into the North American wireless footprint. You have a domestic investor who wants to gain share in the wireless footprint. This again just confirms our overall belief that the wireless industry still has a lot of growth left in it, both on the quad play and with the innovation of machine-to-machine and 4G LTE. So I think that is where we sit with the quad play.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. Two quick ones. First, on the Wireline side, the wholesale revenue decline improved nicely for the last couple quarters. Is that really a function of the repositioning work you guys have done in VES, or are there some other more macro trends driving that? And can we expect to see that improvement continue?

And then over in Wireless, it looks like -- as I look at your prepaid and wholesale reseller numbers, it looks like prepaid was a little bit lighter than we thought, despite a price cut. Can you talk a little about -- and then you had stronger reseller numbers. Can you talk a little bit about your strategy in both of those categories and what we can expect going forward?

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, John. Thank you. So on the wholesale side of the house, this is just that -- I would tell you I believe that this is timing. And I think that if I had to predict what was going to happen the rest of the year, I think we are going to be around this 8% to 9% decline in wholesale. And it is mainly around, again, the drive behind volumes of voice and data.

And again, it points back to everything I talked about in enterprise, because most of the volume that we get on wholesale are people who resell that to enterprise customers and other customers for voice and data. So I agree with you, it has slowed a bit, but I think we are probably in a period of it is not going to improve here in the future.

As far as prepaid goes, I guess a couple things here. So as I've said before, in the prepaid market, we will look for niches to play that really complement what we want to be as a carrier in the prepaid market. And I've said before we are not going to chase the low end on our retail side of the house, but we will look for niches where we can make impact. I guess I would say this is the eighth consecutive quarter of a net add positive on our prepaid in retail.

As you said, John, we launched new pricing here in the first quarter. It was mid-first quarter so we don't really have the full impact of the quarter here on what we launched as smartphone pricing, which was the first time we launched a smartphone pricing on prepaid. We also launched a $35 plan to really go after the basic phone category with a little bit of data in that.

So you are seeing us become -- I wouldn't say overly aggressive, but maybe a little bit more aggressive. But again, it ties into our network strategy of using the 3G network and keeping that network full because it contributes a lot of margin.

The other thing is, though, as I've said in the past, we will always play in both arenas between retail and wholesale, depending upon what drives the most value for Verizon shareholders. And you saw this quarter through a relationship that we have with one of our resellers with a distribution agreement to Wal-Mart, we added a 1 million net subs on that side of the house, which was really all prepaid subs.

So again, balancing out where we think the most favorable financial position is for us to get the greatest return, that is how you will see us going forward in the prepaid market.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. First, if you could just give as an update on the ending balance for Verizon Wireless net debt. And secondly, when we look at some of the numbers in the Wireless business, it looks like the postpaid customer device replacement cycle is lengthening. And I was curious if you could talk about the reasons for that. Do you think it is because of the policy changes you've made over the last couple of years? Are you seeing any resistance to some customers upgrading to the new shared plans that you've laid out? Just curious for some of your thoughts on that subject. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: All right, Michael. Thank you. So Verizon Wireless debt, gross is $10 billion, cash is $3.9 billion, for net of $6.2 billion.

On the device line up, obviously, if you look at what we have done over the last two years, what we plan to do coming here in the fourth quarter, if you look at the ecosystem of these devices, these are highly subsidized devices, and we have to make sure that we position the value to Verizon and the value to our customer on an equal basis.

So what you seen over the last two years in modifying the policies to make sure that we can still offer a great lineup of phones at a reasonable price to our consumers for a two-year service contract, you are seeing us lengthen that cycle. And to be honest, I mean, we are not seeing a lot of resistance here. You have to understand that a lot of the upgrades were proactive by us, not by our customers. And so we are really just repositioning that the date of an upgrade is two years now instead of, say, 20 months.

We don't anticipate that there will be, obviously, a lot of dissatisfaction here, but we have to watch this carefully. Obviously, we want to give our customers the most choice that we possibly can. We think we have a great lineup. We have a lot of choices.

On the shared side of the house, we are not seeing resistance on people converting to shared. Actually, we are much ahead of what our expectations were. We have 30% of our base now on shared, and that continues go up. Also within the shared plan, we are seeing exactly what we thought would happen, is as people move to 4G -- and you heard that 69% -- or 68% of our upgrades are to 4G -- that is driving usage, which is also driving up to the higher tiers, driving the revenue profile, and also the connected devices.

As we said the last call, we see that when people come in as a new Verizon customer, their actual device attachment is much lower than our base. But over that nine to 12 months, we see them attaching more devices and moving up to where the average of our overall base is.

So we continue to see that happening, and it is all about customer service as well, not just when an upgrade period is. So I think we are hitting on all cylinders here, but we have to watch this carefully.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA: Hey, guys, thanks. Just wanted to circle back on the upgrade policy and your thoughts as the year progresses. There has been a view that we should have some of your competitors getting a little bit healthier towards the back half of the year. Does that set up to be another differentiator for those other carriers?

And then secondly, on the upgrade policy change, is there a risk, as the customer matures past the 20 months, that the ETF is low enough that it could create unnecessary churn for you guys?

And then lastly, just thinking about data usage, and obviously it's an important thing for ARPA revenue growth. How much of that, if you can measure it, is being offloaded onto the WiFi network, onto the wireline data side, to maybe either try to save data usage on the wireless side or to get a better customer experience? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Hi, Mike. Thanks. So on the upgrade policy, I mean, obviously these decisions from us are done based on a lot of customer input and customer feedback and focus groups. So we don't just jump into these things. You saw us do that when we implemented the $30 upgrade fee. So we are very diligent in how we do this.

As far as customer contracts and ETFs, we managed this since we started with service agreements in 24 months. So this is nothing new. And, look, I think we compete on a number of fronts. It is not just on a service contract or pricing. We compete on our outstanding network. So when you look at our network and reliability, the 4G network and our superiority, I think if you compare our network with others, that you would have to say we are the leader in the market as far as reach, as far as consistency of performance. So when you go to connect that data session, it connects, you get the speed that we advertise, on a consistent basis. If you look at the Share Everything plan and the options we have there and the flexibility within that plan. If you look at the number of our device lineups.

So all of this, including our great customer service from our customer service centers, this all goes into why our churn is the lowest in the industry and will continue to be the lowest in the industry. And this is what we work for every single day. It is tackling the basics, as I said in my opening comments.

So again, we manage all of this. As far as data and offload to WiFi, obviously, customers offload to WiFi. But what we see is, again, because of the superiority of our network and because of the authentication that our network has, we actually want people to offload when they are in their homes. But when they are out in public areas, they want to stay on our network because it is authenticated, it is secure, and a lot of WiFi networks outside of the home are not secure. So I think that plays into that as well. But we do think that WiFi is a good offload in certain circumstances, but not all.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Fran, just quickly on cost of service in Wireless, it had a meaningful step down, which obviously is a credit to your cost-saving opportunities. But how should we look at that progressing through the year?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think that all hinges on the upgrade. So when we came into this year, I said that our upgrades would be flat with a year ago, so, obviously, sequentially if that is -- I think that is what you are looking at -- it is a considerable decrease because of the volume that we had in the fourth quarter versus the first quarter.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. Fran, you noted the importance of keeping a close eye on the level of subsidies that you incur, and that is why you made further adjustments to the upgrade policy. So if we look at the policies now, people have to keep their phone for the duration of their contract, they have an upgrade fee. It seems like you've done just about everything you can do from a policy standpoint to keep subsidies in line.

Are there any other steps you can take as a carrier to work on that even further? For example, are you rethinking whether you should be favoring lower subsidized phones in the stores? Or is there even anything you can do to influence the actual cost of the manufacturing of phones that it is lower for you?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Brett. Around this, again, I go back to if you look at the history of basic phones and what happened over time, again, I think the smartphone category will also follow this, where as the competition and innovation, as new phones come to market -- obviously, BlackBerry is coming back into the market, we have the Windows phone -- so as more ecosystem comes here and more competition happens, the cost of these phones will eventually start to decrease. And we've already seen some of this competition happen in certain categories with the decrease of smartphones. We've launched smartphones in prepaid. That gives you an indication that there is some low-end smartphones out there, because we really don't subsidize much on the prepaid product.

So again, as the ecosystem builds, I think this will follow what historically the basic phone did over the last 10 years that that was maturing. And that is what is going to impact the lower subsidies over time.

And of course, then, as I've said in the past, as we move into our 4G and our VoLTE launch -- which we will start to have VoLTE-capable phones by the end of this year, we will commercially launch early next year -- and as we do that and our footprint of 4G LTE really covers that of the 3G network and the experiences there, then we will start to take the CDMA chip out of those handsets. So again, that will impact subsidy going forward.

So I think we have a good road map here that says our strategy, we believe that we can start to reduce subsidy over a length of two to three years. So I think that is where our position is.

BRETT FELDMAN: And was there any experience that you had with feature phones where you found that you had the ability to push the ecosystem? In other words, do you think there is any opportunity to start driving customers towards smartphones that already have lower subsidies, or do you really have to wait for the market to want those devices?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think, again, this goes back to customer satisfaction. And as I've said before, we don't incent our front lines to sell one phone over another. This is a customer choice. Because, again, the worst thing that can happen to us is force a phone into a customer's hands, and within our return policy of 14 days worry-free, they can come back and return that phone for dissatisfaction for any reason, and we give them a new phone. That is not a good financial model.

So we want the customer, when they walk out the door, to have the right phone in their hand, whatever phone they choose, and to make sure that they are educated to use that phone. So that is what is more important to us, instead of locking them into a low subsidy handset that they are going to be dissatisfied with.

BRETT FELDMAN: Just a point of clarification, because you mentioned about eventually taking CDMA chipsets out of devices. What is the commitment to CDMA and what would be the timeframe for getting there?

FRAN SHAMMO: Again, I think that it's going to come into play in 2014. So we will keep posted on that. But the strategy is to eventually, within these 4G LTE devices, to remove that chip at some point in time. So I think that is where we are at.

BRETT FELDMAN: So we'd see our first device that doesn't necessarily have a CDMA chip next year, not all devices?

FRAN SHAMMO: That's correct.

BRETT FELDMAN: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the questions. I guess first, Fran, it is probably going to become clearer, I think, through the quarter that you guys took another healthy chunk of the Wireless market share for net add growth. Could you talk a little bit about, as we think about the year unfolding, where this net add growth is coming from in terms of tablets, home zone, the share that you are winning from the iDEN network shutdown over at Sprint, just so we could kind of think about how the market is unfolding and where the competitive tangent points are?

And then I guess second, on the cash flow front, it looks like you guys didn't actually pay taxes this quarter, which was a big tailwind for that number. Could you give us a little more color about how you think that cash tax line is going to contribute or not to the cash flow picture for the rest of the year? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. First on the all categories growth, so as I said in my prepared remarks here, as last year we came into the first quarter, I said that we would look at continuing to accelerate our growth through the year, and I think we are on plan to do that again this year.

As far as the mix of growth here, it is really evenly spread among all devices. So we had net gains in smartphone customers, we had net gains in our home phone connect product, we had net gains in Fusion, tablets, Internet devices, prepaid. So it is across the gamut that we are driving on every single device. So it is not one device over another, but we think that we will continue to grow each individual category on a net positive basis.

As far as cash flow goes, there is all kinds of things that happen in cash taxes during the quarter. We pay a lot of property tax and a lot of sales tax. There is a federal estimated tax that is in the first quarter. So again, I think that is included in maybe some separate line items that you're not seeing. But we did make some cash tax payments in the first quarter.

DAVID BARDEN: Okay, we'll follow up. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thank you. Most of my questions have been answered, but I just wanted to ask on spectrum. It was recently reported that the DOJ supports restricting the purchase of broadcast spectrum by limiting those current holders of low-band spectrum, such as yourselves. There isn't a lot of spectrum, in my view, coming over the next few years. You are clearly in a good position with AWS. But how do you handle spectrum needs, and how will this impact your CapEx or small cell deployments going forward?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer. I think it is an important question, so let's just back up a second. So the FCC right now is targeting 2014 for the auctions, and is working to develop the rules around the auction process. Obviously, we are working very closely with the FCC and the broadcasters and others in the industry to develop the rules around these auctions and make them successful.

Really, our basis is we want to ensure that the FCC develops and implements the auctions in a way that allows Verizon Wireless to bid for and acquire the additional spectrum that it needs to run its business. As you know, the FCC, they need to maximize the amount of spectrum available for mobile broadband services and ensure that the auction is designed to encourage the broadcasters themselves to participate.

These rules that restrict companies from bidding and give other companies priority could actually cause the auction to fail. So, as you know, the DOJ recently this week weighed in on a theoretical concern about the market foreclosure. We believe the concern is really around some who buy the spectrum to keep others from buying the spectrum, and I think if you look at history, that has not shown itself. Verizon has never purchased spectrum for that reason. We buy it to use it, and I think our track record is we really efficiently -- we efficiently use the spectrum that we have. And I think the secondary market is another important one here, because we proved that the secondary market works in 2012 by divesting of some of the spectrum that we felt others could use more appropriately than we could.

So I think this all goes into that, but I think that is our view around the DOJ, and we will work closely with the FCC in order to make that spectrum available for the people who need it.

So as far as CapEx and utilizing what we need, obviously, we are in a very good position with spectrum. And as I said before, when spectrum comes up, whether it's in an auction or for sale in the open market, you have to be opportunistic, because it normally only comes up at one time. And we are very selective on what we go after, but we have a very long-term strategy with spectrum and we will be opportunistic if the climate presents itself.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great. Thank you, Fran.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Jefferies.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Thanks. A couple of questions related to the copper-fiber migration. First, it looks like you are a little bit ahead of plan. Is that just a function of fixing Sandy issues immediately, or do you think you can keep or even accelerate this pace?

Second, you disclosed, I think, 83,000 forced conversions. Can you give us some idea of how many took just the voice product versus how many stepped up and took broadband and/or video?

And then finally, are there any states with regulatory hurdles or rules that are acting as governors on this initiative?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Tom. So just a couple things here. So around the copper-to-fiber migration, so obviously, with this one, we did have very, very good process this quarter in converting these migrations. And some of this obviously had to do with some of the Sandy impact. I would also tell you, though, this is really a technology change, and we need to really move to the new technologies.

From a regulatory standpoint, if you look at it, the FCC has long-standing rules in place that permit copper retirement. Now, I know some of the CLECs have urged the FCC to suspend or change these rules. But we need to encourage our customers and others to move to the new technologies in order to provide our customers with the best solutions that they have.

And for many of our customers, that service is best delivered over fiber or even maybe a wireless network. And in some of these situations, we are not going to rebuild the copper. It doesn't make financial sense to lay fiber to some of these remote areas. So wireless may be a better solution here, and we are working with the regulatory agencies on that. And within Pennsylvania, a year ago, we solved some of the Internet provisioning via LTE instead of fiber.

So I think the regulatory bodies are very open to it; we continue to work with them. But as far as the copper-to-fiber migration here for the first quarter, I think we are off to a great start. And 300,000 is our target; that doesn't mean we can't exceed that. But we will continue to migrate our customers to the new technology.

As far as the breakdown between voice and Internet, we really don't despair there, because what is happening is as we move people over to fiber, they are coming onto the Quantum product. 27% of our base now is on Quantum. And what we are seeing is they are buying up in the tiers, because once they get that 15-, 30-meg tier, they are buying up to the 50-meg tier. And that is what is helping to drive the stellar revenue performance in the consumer market of 4.3%, which is the highest I think we've ever had at this point, compared to some of the prior years, and consistent with what we performed in last year.

So I think we are on a good path here to continue to produce solid Wireline consumer revenue growth with our strategy that we laid out. So thanks, Tom.

TOM SEITZ: Thank you.

MIKE STEFANSKI: We have time for one last question.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks, guys. Around Wireless, I had a few questions, Fran, if it's okay. As part of moving to the 24-month cycle, I would assume there is a lot of variables to that. But it would seem to me that shared data plans are helping that out a lot. Maybe can you talk a little bit about the data usage on those shared data plans, the growth rate, or any other metrics you could provide?

And then also, on the phones, it just seems like the phones are getting a lot better. I know in my own family, we used to break phones after 12 months; now they seem to be lasting a lot longer. Was that part of the thinking? And just related to that, both personally and professionally, are you flexible at all on the 24-month upgrades? Will you provide 20-month upgrades for high-quality customers who are maybe getting a lower subsidy phone, or how rigid is that? Thanks a lot.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Tim. On the 24-month cycle, obviously our policies are our policies, and obviously, I'll let Verizon Wireless deal with any exceptions to those policies at the front line. Because, again, we want to make sure that customers are satisfied, but the policy is the policy, and we make the -- we want to make sure that the front line sticks to our policies. But obviously, again, as you know, there is always an exception to the rule here and there.

As far as really thinking this through, I think that these are highly subsidized phones. These are miniature computers walking around. People -- it really goes to when you look at the demographics of the customers who upgrade, demographics play a big role in this. The younger generation wants to update to the day. Some others will hold their phones for three, even four years. So it really is a vast difference, and we are just trying to conform everything to a consistent policy so that it makes sense for the customer and it makes sense for us.

As far as 4G LTE and data usage, as we said, 54% of our data now is going over the LTE network. So that should tell you something about the usage of our 4G LTE customers. Beyond that, we are not going to disclose any individual statistics around data usage. So again, thanks, Tim, for the question.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

MIKE STEFANSKI: I want to thank everyone for joining us today, and Brad, we can conclude the call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | itech : Technology | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130425e94i001p5
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,730 words
   PD
22 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty.

   TD
JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am John Doherty. With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo, as well as Mike Stefanski, who recently assumed my role as Head of Investor Relations.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. Replays and a transcript of this call will be available on our website later today.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website. I'd also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our results, I'd like to cover the differences between reported and adjusted earnings this quarter. These are displayed on slide three. For the quarter, we reported a loss of $1.48 per share on a GAAP basis. This quarter, there are several significant nonoperational charges that I would like to highlight. The largest item is a pretax charge of $7.2 billion related primarily to the non-cash, year-end mark-to-market adjustment of pension and OPEB liabilities. This charge is due primarily to changes in the discount rate and other actuarial assumptions, as well as the annuitization of various pension liabilities during the quarter. On an after-tax basis, this charge amounted to $4.4 billion, or $1.55 per share.

We also incurred pretax charges of $1.4 billion related to early retirement of debt and other restructuring activities. Most of the charges are debt redemption costs resulting from a tender offer for a high coupon note during the quarter. On an after-tax basis, this charge was $871 million or $0.31 per share. By excluding $1.86 per share for these nonoperational charges, adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.38. This adjusted result includes $319 million of direct impact from Superstorm Sandy which equates to $0.07 per share. Excluding the Sandy impacts, adjusted EPS would have been $0.45 for the fourth quarter, and full-year results on the same basis would have been $2.31 per share.

With that, I will turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone, and happy new year. Before we get into the details, let me start with some overview comments to put our fourth-quarter and 2012 results in context.

As we have outlined in the past, our strategy is to build upon the strong foundation of our superior network assets as platforms for growth and innovation. This positions us in the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry. We have been consistently focused on better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business to capture growth opportunities in three key areas.

In Wireless, we are looking to take advantage of opportunities driven by the rapid evolution of 4G LTE. Another key area is FiOS, where we are looking to further penetrate the consumer and small business markets. We are also looking to drive growth in enterprise strategic services, particularly in the areas of global IP, cloud computing, security and managed services.

From a financial standpoint, our focus is on execution, capturing incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business, increasing our cash flow and improving our earnings profile. During the year, we made good progress across the entire business, which I will detail more in the segment reviews.

In addition to our solid execution, we also continued to make smart investments for future growth and improved profitability. While very disciplined in our approach to capital spending, we continued to invest in networks and new technologies which will be the platforms for accelerated growth going forward.

On the strategic front, we closed several key transactions that will significantly improve our competitive position, namely the acquisition of additional spectrum, the purchase of Hughes Telematics, the creation of Redbox Instant by Verizon, our continued investment in Verizon Digital Media Services and the annuitization of $7.5 billion of pension obligations. We are also focused on joint efforts around innovation with a number of partners, and we expect to continue to build on our leadership position in the rapid development of the 4G LTE ecosystem.

From a shareholder value perspective, we generated a total return of 13.2% in 2012 through a combination of stock price appreciation and dividends. For the sixth consecutive year, our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase, indicating their confidence in the sustainability of our business model, cash flows and improved earnings profile in 2013 and beyond.

Let's begin with a brief look at consolidated results, starting with slide five. Revenues from strategic growth areas drove a $5 billion improvement in our top line in 2012, and increased our annual growth rate by 50 basis points to 4.5%. In the fourth quarter, consolidated revenue growth increased to 5.7%, which was our highest quarterly growth of the year. Our positive momentum in Wireless and FiOS, together with our continued focus on improving the revenue mix in our enterprise business, gives us confidence that we can drive top-line growth in 2013.

Let's take a closer look at earnings on slide six. Our strong focus on cost management and improving profitability resulted in double-digit growth in adjusted operating income for the year. Through the first nine months, we posted double-digit adjusted earnings growth.

In the fourth quarter, our bottom-line results were impacted by a decision to take advantage of our strong wireless market position, which enabled historic customer growth and smartphone penetration gains. Additionally, the significant challenges created by Superstorm Sandy certainly had an impact on the business in the fourth quarter. As a result, 2012 earnings per share, adjusted for the nonoperational charges John outlined earlier, came to $2.24.

One additional comment I would make related to Sandy is that while we were able to specifically identify a direct impact to the Wireline business in the fourth quarter, it was extremely difficult to effectively quantify the actual impact to normal operations. I will talk more about this later.

Now let's move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide seven. As one of our key growth platforms, we have consistently invested in Wireless to differentiate ourselves in terms of network quality, reliability and the overall customer experience. Five years ago, we made a bold commitment to 4G LTE as the next-generation technology. Since then, we have invested in the technology and its deployment. We secured valuable spectrum, we fostered a robust device ecosystem, and this past year, we introduced shared data plans that changed the industry's pricing framework.

These actions have resulted in consistent sequential growth throughout 2012. Coming off a strong third quarter, we made a strategic decision to take advantage of our 4G LTE lead and invest in growth, which resulted in a record high postpaid gross and net adds in the quarter. In his keynote address at CES a few weeks ago, Lowell showcased our long-term vision of what is possible with the 4G LTE, highlighting innovation applications under development in areas like video, the connected environment, healthcare and energy. Our new brand advertising campaign with the theme Powerful Answers demonstrates our vision of network innovation and the many growth opportunities which will expand the industry in the coming years.

In 2012, Wireless operating revenues totaled $75.9 billion, up 8.1%. Wireless now represents more than 65% of Verizon's consolidated revenue.

Service revenue increased $4.6 billion or 7.7% for the year, driven by connections growth and increasing smartphone penetration. This service revenue growth, together with our intense focus on cost efficiency and our ability to retain customers, is clearly helping to mitigate equipment cost pressures. Our success in capturing these cost savings resulted in higher profitability growth in 2012.

EBITDA grew $3.2 billion, or 12.2% for the year, and we expanded our industry-leading EBITDA service margins by 180 basis points to 46.6%.

Let's now turn to a more detailed look at volume growth, beginning on slide eight. Throughout 2012, we saw accelerating sequential growth in the postpaid market, culminating in record net adds in the fourth quarter. We had a great year of postpaid connections growth, enabling us to gain market share. Postpaid gross additions were up 6%, and postpaid net adds increased by almost 800,000 to 5 million, our highest annual net add total in four years.

During the fourth quarter, we added more than 2.2 million new retail connections, with 2.1 million postpaid and 142,000 prepaid. We have an industry-leading 98.2 million retail connections, with 92.5 million postpaid and 5.7 million prepaid. Our postpaid connections represent 35.1 million accounts.

Within the postpaid net add mix this quarter, 1.9 million were smartphones and about 600,000 were Internet devices; the remainder being the net change in basic phones. Postpaid gross adds in the quarter were a record 4.7 million, up 18% sequentially and 29% year-over-year. In terms of upgrades, 9% of our postpaid connections base upgraded during the quarter, up from around 7% in the third quarter and less than the 10% we experienced a year ago. Our churn metrics continue to be market-leading. Retail postpaid churn was 0.95%.

Next, let's turn to slide nine and take a look at device sales and our progress in 4G LTE. Our record sales volumes in the fourth quarter included 12.5 million postpaid devices, more than 90% of which were phones. As we've seen each quarter, an increasing majority of these phone sales were smartphones. In the fourth quarter, we activated 9.8 million smartphones, which was by far our highest total ever. About 65% of these smartphones were 4G LTE. In terms of Apple iPhones, we activated about 6.2 million in the quarter and almost half were 4G LTE. Android phones made up a majority of the remaining smartphones, and over 95% were 4G LTE. Our smartphone penetration increased from 53% last quarter to 58%. A year ago, smartphone penetration was 44%.

A key point of differentiation for us, which speaks to our incremental revenue opportunity, is the improved mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations. In the fourth quarter, gross adds or new to Verizon represented about 30% of total smartphone activations, a sharp improvement from the 20% to 23% range we reported throughout 2011 and the first half of 2012.

We also have incremental revenue potential within our upgrades, as about 42% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smartphone for the first time. In addition, if we include customers upgrading from a 3G to a 4G LTE smartphone, considering the likelihood of higher data usage, we can say that three out of four upgrades represent incremental revenue going into 2013.

Customer adoption of 4G LTE is really gaining momentum. While we have seen a steady increase in sales of 4G LTE devices each quarter since we launched service, the sequential increase in the fourth quarter was much more dramatic. Total 4G LTE device sales increased to 7.3 million, up 60% from the third quarter. Smartphone activations represented 6.4 million of this total, up 74% sequentially. Virtually all Internet device sales in the quarter were 4G LTE, with tablet sales doubling over the third quarter.

At the end of the year, 4G LTE phones and devices represented 23.3% of total retail postpaid connections. 34% of our smartphones and 58% of our Internet devices are now 4G LTE. Almost half of our total data traffic is on the 4G LTE network, which we believe is five times more efficient than 3G. As we have stated throughout the year, we are no longer adding capacity to our 3G network. While the 4G LTE connections and data volumes are impressive, we expect that these percentages will continue to grow, as all new smartphones in our device roadmap will be 4G LTE.

In terms of 4G LTE geographic coverage, we are by far the market leader. Our 4G LTE service is currently available in 476 markets covering more than 273 million POPs, or about 89% of the US population. We intend to continue leveraging our advantage and expanding coverage, with the goal of having a nationwide 4G LTE footprint similar to our 3G network by midyear 2013.

Let's take a closer look at our quarterly revenue performance on slide 10. Total Wireless revenues grew 9.5% to $20 billion in the fourth quarter. Service revenue grew 8.5% in the fourth quarter, driven by equally strong retail service revenue growth. As you know, last quarter, we began disclosing new retail postpaid metrics, replacing ARPU with ARPA, as well as providing the number of postpaid accounts and the average connections per account.

During the quarter, ARPA grew to more than $146 per month, an increase of 6.6%. The average connections per account increased to 2.64, up more than 4%. In just six months, 23% of our postpaid accounts are on a Shared Everything plan. Customers are quickly recognizing the value proposition. Adoption is ahead of our expectations, and we continue to see customers adding devices to their plans and increasing their usage tiers.

Let's conclude our Wireless review on slide 11. Our EBITDA service margin of 41.4% in the quarter was impacted by higher retail gross adds and the increased mix of smartphone sales this quarter, in addition to stronger indirect channel performance. During the fourth quarter, we activated 2 million more smartphones than we did a year ago and saw only an 80 basis point differential in the margin. In terms of absolute dollars, we generated $6.8 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, which is an increase of 6.3% year-over-year.

This strong customer growth and increased smartphone penetration drove service revenue and increased ARPA. Our intense focus on cost efficiency is helping to mitigate the cost of equipment subsidies and commissions. Our industry-leading customer retention is also a key factor in our profitability, which is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience.

Verizon Wireless continues to be the industry leader, and we have great momentum heading into 2013. We fully expect to sustain our very strong service revenue growth and increase our profitability this year. Last year, we saw margins recover quickly from heavy smartphone sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. In 2013, we expect Wireless EBITDA margins will rebound within the range of the record levels we reported in the second and third quarter of 2012.

Let's move next to our Wireline segment, starting on slide 12. In Wireline, we are focused on migrating customers to fiber assets, which provide better services and capabilities, such as FiOS, IP-based applications and cloud solutions. These services are also more efficient and, in the long run, improve our cost structure. The Wireline business made positive strides in 2012 and fundamentals are improving in the strategic growth areas.

From a top-line perspective, we have encouraging signs in the consumer market, where we posted the strongest top-line growth in 10 years. In enterprise, we continue to manage through the secular and global economic challenges. Our product rationalization initiatives are also putting near-term pressure on revenue growth, but we are confident that these initiatives, which include significant efforts in the area of process and systems streamlining, will prove to be the right decision as we build a fundamentally stronger business.

In terms of profitability, we did not see the margin improvement we were expecting in the second half of 2012 due primarily to the length of the time it took to reach an agreement with our unions and also to the significant business disruption caused by the challenges of Sandy.

Our 2012 EBITDA margin of 21.3% includes $319 million of direct impact from Sandy. Again, it was very difficult to effectively quantify the indirect impact caused by this disruption. Sandy had a dramatic effect, particularly on the Wireline business, due to the heavy concentration of damage in the New York metropolitan area. Our challenge was to restore service to customers as quickly as possible, while still managing to meet the demand for new services. We also made a strategic decision to use storm restoration as an opportunity to accelerate fiber migrations in both the enterprise and FiOS markets.

During the course of the year, we successfully migrated 223,000 residential homes to fiber, exceeding our target for 2012. These customer migrations increased in the second half of the year and picked up considerably in the aftermath of Sandy.

From an operational standpoint, we saw an 11% improvement in our overall copper trouble report rate for the year. This marked the first decline in four years and helped to lower the number of dispatches and reduce our repair costs.

Providing these customers with a greater opportunity to purchase a FiOS services is also gaining some traction. For customers that have decided to upgrade to additional FiOS services, we are seeing a $45 lift in monthly ARPU. We are pleased with our progress to date and view the copper-to-fiber migration plan as an important part of our strategy to reduce the Wireline cost structure. In 2013, we are targeting an additional 300,000 homes within the FiOS markets. Let's take a closer look at the revenue components, starting with Mass Markets on slide 13.

In the fourth quarter, consumer revenue growth of 4.1% was driven by FiOS, where revenue increased nearly 16% and now represents about 68% of consumer revenue. Consumer revenue growth was impacted in the quarter by service credits and customer billing suspensions resulting from Superstorm Sandy. The increasing scale of FiOS is driving growth in consumer ARPU, which increased to more than $105 per month, up 9.5%. FiOS ARPU is now over $150 per month, and two thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple play, with voice, Internet and video services.

In terms of broadband customer growth, we had 144,000 new FiOS Internet additions in the quarter, and now have 5.4 million subscribers, representing penetration of 37%. In HSI or DSL, we had a net loss of 117,000 customers. Net broadband subscribers were a positive 27,000, marking an improvement over the past two quarters.

Looking at the full year, broadband revenue growth improved by 3.1%, in spite of the fact that subscriber growth slowed to 1.4%. This revenue growth was driven by customers buying up in speed, taking advantage of our FiOS Quantum offers. I would also attribute some of the improvement to our copper-to-fiber migration initiative. In FiOS video, we added 134,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.7 million, which is 33% penetration.

Our FiOS customer growth in the fourth quarter was very good. In fact, net adds were greater than the second and third quarters. This was in spite of the significant disruption caused by the Sandy restoral efforts.

In contrast to the second half of 2011, we decided to aggressively meet the increased demand for our FiOS services by authorizing overtime so that we did not lose customers by making them wait until we caught up to the backlog. I would also add that our residential connection trends continue to improve. During the fourth quarter, we lost 156,000 retail residential connections, representing a 6.2% decline year-over-year, compared with a loss of 183,000 or 7.3% at this time last year.

Let's move to our Enterprise Markets next on slide 14. In the fourth quarter, Global Enterprise revenue declined $83 million or 2.1%, all of which was due to lower CPE sales. Strategic Services, which comprised 54% of global enterprise revenue, totaled $2.1 billion and were up 5.3%.

During the quarter, we continued to see delays in new contracts and investment decisions as enterprises exercised caution with regard to the fiscal cliff, potential tax reform and other government policy changes. This uncertainty created a wait-and-see approach that clearly impacted new business in 2012. We continue to believe that as these factors evolve, companies will be in a better position to make decisions about their capital commitments. We remain hopeful that enterprises will renew their investing activities in 2013.

Moving next to Global Wholesale, fourth-quarter revenues declined $168 million or 8.7% year-over-year, due primarily to continued declines in transport services. Again, our strategy is to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and better position the business in the fiber-based ethernet data services space as customers with special access transition from DS1s and DS3s.

Let's conclude our Wireline review on slide 15. In the second half of the year, we saw some improvement in top-line performance. In the fourth quarter, Wireline revenue was down 1.5%, representing an 80 basis point improvement over the rate of decline in the third quarter. Sequentially, revenue increased $76 million, or 0.8%.

In terms of cost, as I said earlier, this was a very challenging quarter and far from normal when you factor in the additional resources devoted to Sandy restoral efforts and to quickly catching up on our FiOS order backlog.

On the labor front, after 400 days of negotiations with our unions, we have a fair and balanced three-year agreement that is good for our employees as well as a positive for the business.

In the Consumer and Mass Markets business, we are confident that several factors will lead to an increasing contribution to Wireline profitability in 2013. These include our focus on driving FiOS revenue growth and improving our operating and capital efficiency, the continued success of our copper-to-fiber migration initiative and the benefits of the new union contracts.

In Enterprise, we still see uncertainty around the debt ceiling, deficit reduction and tax reform. We are all looking at the same published reports about international economic growth, which point to continued pressure on enterprise spending. We believe the actions we are taking will ultimately improve our cost structure and are the right steps toward improving Wireline profitability. In the short term, we expect similar performance within our Enterprise unit. If some of the uncertainty is dealt with by Washington, then things can improve throughout 2013.

I would like to turn now to slide 16 to discuss our cash flow results and how we further strengthened our balance sheet in 2012. Our free cash flow in the fourth quarter and full year was once again a combination of strong cash generation and disciplined capital spending. For the year, cash flow from operations grew 5.7% to $31.5 billion and free cash flow increased to $15.3 billion, up 13%.

Capital expenditures for 2012 totaled $16.2 billion, down about $70 million from last year. This includes about $135 million in capital related to Sandy.

Our capital efficiency improved, ending the year at 14%. With the heavier investments to transform our business largely behind us, we would expect our CapEx-to-revenue ratio, which is already at a historical low, to continue to decline, based on disciplined capital spending and sustainable revenue growth.

In Wireless, CapEx in the fourth quarter increased to $2.8 billion, and we finished the year at $8.9 billion, down 1.3%. In 2012, we allocated more capital to 4G LTE to expand coverage. In the fourth quarter, we also pre-positioned additional capacity in certain key markets. As more customers choose 4G LTE smartphones and devices, we expect the continued migration of data traffic from 3G to our lower-cost 4G LTE network will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency in 2013 and beyond.

In Wireline, capital spending was $1.7 billion in the quarter, to finish the year at $6.3 billion, down about 1%. Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong. Total debt of $52 billion was down more than $3 billion or 5.7% from the end of last year. We ended the year with a net debt of $48.9 billion, and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.3 times.

In December, we closed a pension annuitization transaction with Prudential, transferring $7.5 billion of management retiree pension benefit obligations by purchasing a group annuity contract. This transaction was part of an overall pension de-risking strategy, which will reduce our exposure to funding and income statement volatility caused by changes in investment returns, discount rates and longevity risks.

This transaction also provides us with additional financial flexibility. In the fourth quarter, we contributed an additional $1.7 billion in pension funding to end the year at $3.5 billion, which is in line with what I indicated on our third-quarter call. Again, we do not expect any cash funding requirement for qualified pensions in 2013, and based on our current plan assumptions, we expect contribution requirements in future years to be lower as a result of this transaction.

Let's move now to our summary slide. We enter 2013 with great confidence in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas. We have great momentum in Wireless, and we expect to build on that strength, driving further penetration of devices and extending our leadership position in 4G LTE. In FiOS, we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and continue to differentiate ourselves with our superior Internet and video services.

In the Enterprise space, we will continue to aggressively market our Strategic Services, demonstrating to customers that we have a unique set of capabilities to combine solutions around the network, data center, security and cloud infrastructure.

In terms of our cost structure, we will continue to drive operating efficiencies across and throughout the entire business. We continue to dedicate resources to examine all costs and processes, including product rationalization, service provisioning, back-office operations and systems. Our ability to effectively execute and capture these incremental revenue opportunities and operating efficiencies will result in increased profitability, higher cash flows and improved earnings growth in 2013 and beyond.

Lowell and I have challenged our business leaders to build on the strong foundation we have, accelerate the momentum we've achieved, improve our investment returns and drive significant shareholder value. With that, I will now turn the call back to John so we can address your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for our first question, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, and good morning. Fran, maybe quick question on Wireless margins and maybe just a clarification on your outlook comments. I think you said you can get back to margins that we saw in the second and third quarter of this year, which was in the 49% to 50% range. Was that a full-year comment or was that a 2Q and 3Q of 2013 comment? And if it is full-year, that is 200 to 300 basis points in margin expansion in Wireless. Just help us think through the drivers of that.

And then second, on capital spending, we've heard three of the industry peers in Wireless talk about an upwards bias to CapEx as we head into 2013. At the same time, you are winding down the initial LTE build and talking about decline in capital intensity. Just help us think through maybe your confidence in the ability to sustain network leadership position in Wireless, given that. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Good morning, Jason. Thanks for the question. So on the Verizon Wireless margins, that was a view of a full-year range. And I think if you look at just the fundamentals of the business, I would say that our fundamentals are more sound than they were a year ago.

If you look at this business, it grew EBITDA $3.2 billion, or 12%, and that was with a historical growth rate in the fourth quarter of this year. We gained significant market share that will carry us into next year with 5 million net adds. If you look at our ARPA growth, our ARPA growth was over $9 from a year ago, and that is on a base of 35 million accounts. So the fundamentals of this business are extremely strong, and I have no doubt that we will return to a margin progression of where we left the second and third quarter.

On the CapEx side of the house, the guidance I would give for 2013 is no different than what I've said before, which is we will be flat. That is in addition with all of the 4G LTE continued buildout that we have.

I would tell you that we ended this year slightly higher than we probably had expected in midyear, but there were two factors for that. Number one, Hurricane Sandy or Superstorm Sandy created us to incur $135 million of additional Wireline capital. But in addition, we also proactively spent another $300 million on the Wireless side to preposition our AWS spectrum that we originally planned for 2013, and we advanced that into 2012.

And that was because we were coming off such a strong third quarter, and we knew that by investing in the growth for the fourth quarter that we were going to need to preposition this. So in essence, we've actually forward-advanced some '13 capital. So I am very confident that we will not end up where some others will be and that our CapEx will be flat for 2013. Thanks for the question, Jason.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: First, to follow up a little bit on Jason. On the Wireless side, can you help us sort of break into that 49% to 50%? Last year, you talked about a sort of $2 billion cost-cutting effort. Can you help us quantify that? And then second, as that leads into earnings per share growth, can you help us with a range of what EPS growth should be this year? It seems like a real acceleration is possible.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. Good questions. So, first on the 49% to 50%, as you know, over the last three years, we've taken $5 billion worth of cost structure out of Wireless. We have another $2 billion of target for this year, and we already have all of those initiatives established for the $2 billion. Now, that will happen over the course of the year. So we will continue on that.

In addition, we've also launched our Verizon Lean Six Sigma, which will also contribute to the reduction of the cost structure within Wireless. But also, I would extend that that as we consolidate -- and I'll use finance as an example -- as we consolidate the finance organization to the middle, we will actually take cost structure out of Wireless, but we will also implement Verizon Lean Six Sigma around the entire organization and reduce the full cost of finance across the board. So again, some of the corporate Verizon Lean Six Sigma will also help reduce the cost structures of the individual units, including Wireless and Wireline.

As far as EPS guidance, I'm not going to give specific guidance today. But what I would tell you is that if you look at the first three quarters of 2012, our approximate growth was 15% year over year. And, as I said, I am more confident in the fundamentals of this business today than I actually was a year ago, so that should give you some sense of my confidence for 2013.

PHIL CUSICK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Maybe two, if I could. First, Fran, you've given some good guidance on the Wireless margins and some of the consolidated. Maybe a little bit on Wireline. You are going through this VES repositioning. Can you talk about the progress there and maybe give us a sense for what kind of Wireline margin improvement we could see on a year-over-year basis?

And then secondly, with the CapEx intensity coming down and some of the stuff you've done to derisk the pension, we've talked a little bit about buybacks and -- maybe becoming part of the discussion by the end of the year. How do you feel about it given what you've seen here in 2012?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. On Wireline, first, I guess I want to take a few minutes on this one, because obviously there are two separate components to this. One is the Consumer side, and then one is the Enterprise side. So let's start with the Consumer.

Obviously, for the fourth quarter, Consumer and Wireline was significantly impacted by Sandy. And as I said on my opening remarks, it was almost impossible for us to really calculate up the impact that that had.

But putting that aside, I think the strength of the platforms that we have built on will continue to drive the profit of Wireline. So first, copper-to-FiOS migrations, we completed 223,000 this year. Our target is 300,000 next year. This is significantly reducing the cost structure of Wireline from a repair perspective. And as I said in my opening remarks, 11% reduction of the first time in repair load from truck roll. So our strategy is working.

Then we talk about the strategic pricing around FiOS. And I said a year ago that we were not disciplined around our price-ups. And we started that in 2012, and as I said coming out of the third quarter, we already had our strategy laid out for 2013. So that strategy will continue to help offset the content cost increase.

In addition, FiOS Quantum, if you look at what we've done over this last year, we've really solidified the strategy around speed. And what we are seeing, as customers migrate from that copper and even current customers are buying up in the speeds, because they realize the quality products that we have.

Then if you go and look at just the union agreements and some of the pension things we did, this all culminates on the Consumer side.

Now, having said that, there are other things that we are investing in that put a little pressure on the Wireline margins. So for instance, Redbox; Redbox was a startup this year. We incurred startup costs like any startup company would. That put pressure on us in the back half of this year.

Hughes, we acquired Hughes; it was a loss company. We are building that company. They are doing an excellent job on acquiring contracts. We have one that we signed recently that will launch in the second, third quarter of this year. So we are actually adding 200 to 250 people in that business to get ready for that new auto company that we signed this agreement with in telematics. So again, continuing to grow on that platform.

VDMS is also another startup that we incurred some operating expense with no associated revenue.

So when you look at Redbox, Hughes and VDMS, these will all start to contribute to top line in Wireline for 2013. But again, probably not much in the profit area, because they are all startups, and I would think that in 2014, these will really start to contribute to the overall profit.

On the Verizon Enterprise side, obviously, my view on this one is the best that we can hope for is flat at this time because of all the uncertainty. Now, as I said in my opening remarks, if we can get rid of some of the uncertainty around debt ceiling and deficit reduction and especially tax reform, I think this will open up for companies to start investing again. But given that, in this time of repair, we are actually building out the platforms with Terremark, and again, Hughes and Verizon Digital Media Services.

So I think we are making all the right strategic moves around the product rationalization. So having all this combined, I am confident that we can improve our profit in Wireline 2013 over 2012.

Now on the share buyback, given everything that we have done this year, I think we are exiting this year with a really strong balance sheet. We executed on our pension annuitization. We've declined our debt by over $3 billion. We also strengthened our balance sheet from another -- of other means, as well.

So when you take this all in culmination and the strong cash flow performance on a year-over-year basis, even with the growth that we did in the fourth quarter and the impact of Sandy, I originally stated that share buyback would be something that we would do at the end of 2013. I am in a position now that we could do share buybacks at any point in time right now, but I would call it an opportunistic time. So if the opportunity presents itself in our share price, then I would contemplate buying back shares. So hopefully, that answers the question, John.

JOHN HODULIK: Yes. Thanks for all the detail, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning. Just to follow up on John's question there, do you need any more authorization or how much do you currently have available if you wanted to buy back over the next few weeks?

And then a couple of other cash items. Given the extra year of bonus depreciation, have you got a sense of what your cash taxes might be this year? And perhaps you can update us on the 700-megahertz sale process. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. The first one, on the cash buyback, we have a shelf registration of 100 million shares, so there is no issue there.

On the second one, let me come back to that.

On the 700 megahertz, on the 700 megahertz, we have completed some deals to date. We have -- on the licenses side, we've closed our deal with T-Mobile back in the third quarter of this year on the swaps. We previously agreed to sell 35 out of 77 700-megahertz licenses on the D block side to 10 different purchasers, and some of them are still pending at the FCC. We also agreed to sell four out of our 700-megahertz A block licenses to four different purchasers, and two of them are still pending at the FCC. So we continue to look at suitable deals for the others, and if they come through the process, this will then -- we will take that through the regulatory process. So at this point, that is where we are at.

On the cash taxes, as I've said before, this community kept questioning me about the increase in my cash tax in 2013, and I kept telling everyone that we had plans in place that even with bonus depreciation going away, that would not happen. Now with bonus depreciation there, that is why I've reflected back to the share buyback and why we are in a different position here.

So I think that all ties together. But our effective tax rate for going into next year would be the same as the guidance I gave this past year, which is anywhere from 31% to 33%.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT: Thanks. Good morning. A couple questions. First, just the typical Verizon Wireless net debt question, if we could just get an update on that balance at the end of the year.

And then secondly, as you think about the Wireless margin guidance that you laid out for 2013, can you talk a little bit more about what is going on with the device replacement rate, which can add some sensitivity to the margins? Do you think that will be a faster rate of replacement, same, or even lower in 2013? If you could talk about some of the drivers that are contributing to that. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So on the net debt side of the house, Verizon Wireless is $9.3 billion net debt. They actually have about $1.4 billion worth of debt maturing in 2013, which we at this point plan to retire.

Just on the overall handsets, this really goes, I think, to the question of the upgrade rate and what do we see. And again, as we saw this year, as I said, we would see an uptick in upgrades going into the fourth quarter from the third quarter, but we would be down from a year ago, and that is exactly what happened.

I would say that 2013 is probably a flat year on an upgrade basis to this year, so I don't see any incremental increase. But it is the quality of the upgrades that we are really focused in on. And if you look at the progress of basic phones, this year, we had a significant amount of basic phone upgrades. So if you look at a year ago, a year ago we moved about -- in the fourth quarter -- 3.5 million basic phones. That was cut by 50% this year. So you are still going to have a population that only wants a basic phone riding off of the 3G network.

But what we are seeing is as the prices of the smartphones have decreased, there is an incremental population that are coming into that smartphone category. And again, every single one of these adds and every single one of these upgrades, except for a few who are willing to pay full price for the smartphone, are moving into our shared price plan. And as I said, 23% of our accounts now are on shared pricing, and you can see what's happening from a revenue increase perspective and a device attachment perspective.

So again, I think that from a pure upgrade perspective, it is flat, but the quality of upgrades, I think, just continues to get better into 2013.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormick, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Fran, not to beat a dead horse here on the full-year guide, but I'm assuming you are anticipating an iPhone refresh at some point in time. And then just thinking about as we look forward over the next -- whatever -- year or so, smartphone penetration obviously getting close to 60% now. How do we start to offset the impact of this smart-to-smart migration on margins generally? And I know you talked about 4G driving some additional revenue opportunity there. But how should we think about the margins longer term as we get smartphone penetration reaching just call it 80%, and then we're seeing much more of this sort of smart-to-smart impact?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. I guess the way I look at this is that there is more to this than just the smartphone category. So if you look at -- again, of what we are doing with shared, and the increase of the revenue and the attachment of other devices. So if you look at our Internet device category, including the tablets, we had one of our strongest quarters from any other device attachment rate than we've had in the past. This all drives the revenue.

So when you think about the increase in the service revenue side -- because this does not go with just concentrating on the subsidy of the handset -- because the subsidy of the handset, although higher than a basic phone would be, these drive incremental revenues from a usage perspective. And especially when you have a platform like the LTE, with the speeds and the video consumption that people are using and the buying up of the tiers that they have. And then you think about machine-to-machine and the opportunities for mobile payments and other solutions that are going to ride off of the Hughes platform, we have many, many opportunities to offset the subsidy with the incremental revenue.

Now having said that, on the subsidy side of the house, you can see that the price of the handsets continued to decline. We now have the Windows platform in our mix, and we saw some steady, albeit slow, increase in some of the uptake of that platform. But as we get more and more platforms in the mix -- and now we have RIM out there again -- there is going to the incremental competition, there will be subsidy reduction, as there was in the basic phone history in the ecosystem.

So again, this is full management of the P&L. This is just not locking in on one item on the P&L. And if you culminate that with the $5 billion reduction in cost and the other $2 billion that we have this year, again, I am very, very confident in the fundamentals and the trajectory that we have going into 2013.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay. Fran, what was the initial impact on the pooled data plans? I know you guys had anticipated some potential risk of dilution there. What was the initial experience for those that are signing up?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes --

JOHN DOHERTY: Mike, can you just -- I think we missed the front end of that question. Could you just restate it, please?

MIKE MCCORMACK: Just the pooled data plans, I know you guys had talked initially about some potential early dilution when you switched over to those plans. Just trying to get a sense for what the early experience has been.

FRAN SHAMMO: The early adopters, obviously, were in fact dilutive, but it wasn't as much as we had expected. And if you look at the ARPA growth that we are generating now, it actually is way offsetting any of that initial dilution. So we are in a very good place with the shared price plan.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Can you discuss how you evaluate various uses of free cash flow? With spectrum purchases last year, CapEx flat and tackling the pension, it looks like you were going to have a lot more free cash flow this year. You've talked about the buyback, but you've also mentioned some cloud, video, Wireline growth initiatives, potentially raising the dividend. Or would you save powder for Vodafone or other Wireless M&A? How do you balance all those out, and should we think about a little bit of all of them or focus on the buyback, given where the stock is right now?

FRAN SHAMMO: Kevin, I think you answered the question, all-encompassing in your answer. But, look, I think it is all of the above. Again, I think we left this year in a very, very good, solid place. We bought spectrum last year. We bought Hughes last year. We made some significant investments. We continue to invest in that Redbox platform, the Hughes platform, as we acquired it. We continue to build out the Terremark asset that we acquired over a year and a half ago.

So it is all of the above. And share buyback, dividend policy, deleveraging is all encompassed in that strategy. So again, I think you answered the question given everything you said.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Jefferies.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: One on Wireline and one on Wireless, if I could. On Wireline, can you help us think about the impact to Wireline margins of the copper migration over time? Texas is one of the oldest FiOS markets, and I believe you've said in the past that video and Internet penetrations there are in the high 40% range. You already had the more favorable union contract down there, more forward-looking state regulatory environment. Are margins in Texas better by a few basis points, or are they on order of magnitude better? Any sort of framing you could do in that area would be great.

And then on the Wireless side, BlackBerry 10 launches this quarter; you just mentioned it. It is reported to be another expensive device. When you look at your BlackBerry base, is there any chance at all that this handset has an unusual impact to the first-quarter or second-quarter margin that could impede the improvement you outlined?

And if you can indulge me, any view your product guys have on RIM becoming the third competitive OS, now that they've seen the device?

FRAN SHAMMO: So on the Texas market, I am not going to specifically speak to any individual market of FiOS. It is not a good thing for me to do that at this point in time. But what I would tell you is it is the highest penetration of our market. It is a very profitable market. So given where we are in Texas, which was the first market we launched, we know that the rest of the markets can achieve those types of penetration rates, which were in the 50%. So there is no stopping us from a penetration rate.

And as we continue, and you saw this quarter, we had higher demand for the FiOS product. And some of that was because, quite honestly, Superstorm Sandy showed the reliability of the fiber network even in this type of a catastrophe. Copper does not mix with water. Fiber optics doesn't care if it is in water. So again, the strength of how we build our reliable network with generator backup and all sorts of things just speaks to the popularity of this product.

So I think we are in a good position going into 2013 overall with FiOS. And I will tell you that year over year, FiOS continues to become more of a profitable product for us. So I'll answer it that way.

On the BlackBerry 10 launch, given your question, no, I don't anticipate any unusual item that would cause me to come off of the statement I made earlier. This is just yet another platform. We are hoping that the platform is successful. We have very loyal BlackBerry users in our base, and we will see how that goes. But all in, we now have four operating platforms coming into the mix, and again, as I said before, I think more choice for our customers is better for us and for the consumer and for competition.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much. Welcome, Mike. Just wanted to ask two, if I could. Number one, Fran, on the ARPA growth that you saw, could you kind of give us a sense as to the mix of the drivers in the growth year-over-year? Is it the volume coming from the tablets, connected devices and people coming from handsets to smartphones? Or with respect to the upgrade in the data plans, has that kind of become a driver that you can quantify and grab onto yet?

And then I guess the second question would be, as you have talked about kind of starting to harvest the 3G network capacity, could you talk about how aggressive you plan on being in terms of trying to monetize the capacity that you have as customers move from 3G to 4G? I would imagine that there is a lot of opportunity to especially get more aggressive in the prepaid side of the equation. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, David. On the ARPA growth, it is a combination of a lot of things. Obviously, it is the -- as we said, based on our view of when we launched this plan, we expected the uptake in the data consumption, based on the LTE network and the speeds that network can deliver. So as people consume more, they will buy up in the tiers.

And then in addition, it is the device attachment. And this one is really considerable for us, because that is why we developed the plan we did, and you can attach up to 10 devices. And what we are seeing is, as we said in the outset here, 30% of these customers coming to us on smartphones are new to Verizon. And what we see is is that they come in at the low end of the devices onto the shared price plan, and over a period of six months, they almost double the amount of devices that they put on the plan.

So the device attachment -- whether it is a tablet or a MiFi card, we launched a camera in the fourth quarter -- so all these things will contribute to the attachment, which will drive usage and then hence drives the ARPA increase.

And then on the 3G network, yes, we stopped investing in that network. We obviously continued to sell the 3G iPhones on that network, which were very successful in the fourth quarter. So again, we manage this network very closely. But look, we made some moves in 2012 around prepaid, and we will see where we go in 2013. But we will continue to utilize that network to contribute to the bottom line of the Company.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Just following up on David's question on the capacity, on the LTE coverage, given it is almost complete, when will we see you adding more LTE capacity kind of through the lighting up of SpectrumCo, AWS spectrum that you got from the cable companies? And if you (multiple speakers) --

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Jennifer. We actually did pre-position -- as I said, this year, we pre-positioned $300 million of capital to start positioning that AWS spectrum for capacity around LTE in some of the major markets. And that really was a result of our exiting the third quarter and the growth that we saw and knowing that we were strategically going into and investing in the growth of the fourth quarter.

So given all of that, we did pre-position the AWS spectrum and we will continue to do that as needed. So we are in a very good position with our LTE network. We are in a very good position with our license holdings, so no issues at this point.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great. Thanks, Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so thank you, everyone. Let me just close this real quick. First, just thank you for joining the call today. But also, I wanted to just say thank you to John for his diligence here in the IR role, and I wish him luck in his new mergers and acquisitions and business development role here at Verizon. And take the opportunity to welcome Mike Stefanski to the team. So thank you again for joining the call, and look forward to speaking to each of you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran, and Brad, that concludes the call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i7902 : Telecommunications | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130205e91m000b5
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,229 words
   PD
18 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, for Verizon.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am John Doherty. With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.

This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. A discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on our website.

I'd also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis, unless otherwise noted as sequential.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our results, I'd like to cover a few items upfront. For the quarter, we reported earnings of $0.56 per share on a GAAP basis. These results include $232 million, or $0.08 per share, for nonoperational charges related to patent litigation settlements with TiVo and ActiveVideo.

On an adjusted basis, EPS was $0.64 in the third quarter, up 14.3% year-over-year. Through nine months, adjusted EPS is $1.87, an increase of 14.7% from last year.

Discussion of consolidated results and growth rates in this presentation exclude the effects of nonoperational items. As we have previously indicated, we are no longer reporting average revenue per unit, or ARPU, for wireless postpaid devices. Instead, we are disclosing average revenue per account, or ARPA, which we believe is a more meaningful metric going forward given our new shared data pricing plans.

Earlier this month, we filed a Form 8-K, which disclosed 10 quarters of historical information for the following retail postpaid metrics -- the number of accounts, the average connections per account, and the average revenue per account. This information can also be found on our investor website and is now part of the Wireless selected operating statistics included in our financial and operating information schedules.

With that, I will turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with a few comments about our financial results. We continue to execute our plan well across the entire business. Consolidated revenue growth increased to 3.9%, and our strong focus on cost management and improving profitability resulted in solid double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share for the third consecutive quarter.

The sustained operating performance, together with disciplined capital spending, is driving significant increases in free cash flow, resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the overall business.

Through the first nine months, we generated $13.4 billion of free cash flow, which is 50% more than last year. The Wireless business is setting global benchmarks for performance, and we are building significant momentum heading into the fourth quarter and 2013.

Service revenue growth increased to 7.5%, driven by increasing smartphone penetration and greater device adoption, stimulated by the successful and well-received introduction of our Share Everything plans. This sustained revenue growth performance, together with our demonstrated ability to effectively manage costs and retain customers, resulted in a record-setting EBITDA service margin of 50%, even with our strongest subscriber growth in four years.

In Wireline, consumer revenue growth accelerated to 4.6%, a sharp increase from 2.5% in the second quarter, driven by increased FiOS revenue per customer. Enterprise and wholesale revenues continue to be impacted by secular and global economic challenges, particularly in Europe. We are confident that our focus on improving long-term profitability through product rationalization and simplification, along with process streamlining, will prove to be the right decisions as we build a fundamentally stronger business.

On September 19, we reached a tentative agreement with the CWA and IBEW for new three-year contracts covering about 43,000 associates. We believe that this is a fair and balanced agreement that is good for our employees, as well as a real positive for the future of the Wireline business. I will talk more about the tentative agreement during the Wireline segment review.

Overall, another strong quarter of performance, putting us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year. Let's begin our review with a look at consolidated results on slide four.

We sustained our solid consolidated growth trends with positive contributions from all strategic areas. Consolidated revenue growth increased to 3.9%. Our operating leverage and strong focus on expense controls drove operating income up 17.9%, our third consecutive quarter of double-digit growth.

Consolidated EBITDA grew to $10 billion, and our margin expanded 40 basis points sequentially to 34.6%, its highest level in nearly four years.

Earnings growth also improved. As John indicated in his introductory remarks, adjusted EPS growth was more than 14% in the third quarter and is up nearly 15% year to date.

Let's turn now to cash flow and capital spending on slide five. Our free cash flow increased to $5.6 billion in the quarter, driven by higher cash from operations and continued discipline in our capital spending. Capital expenditures totaled $3.9 billion in the quarter, an increase of about $260 million compared to last year. Year-to-date, capital spending of $11.3 billion was down about 10%. My expectation is that capital spending for the full year will be lower than the $16.2 billion we incurred in 2011.

In addition, we expect our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio to decline based on improved revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.

In Wireless, CapEx in the third quarter was $2.1 billion, which was about $350 million higher than last year. Year-to-date, Wireless capital of $6.1 billion was lower by nearly 16%. CapEx savings this year are due primarily to lower capacity spending on the 3G network. We continue to build and expand the nation's largest 4G LTE network. As more customers choose 4G LTE smartphones and devices, the migration of data traffic from 3G to our lower-cost 4G LTE network will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency. Currently, more than 35% of our data traffic is already on the 4G LTE network.

In Wireline, capital spending was $1.5 billion in the quarter, down $133 million from last year. Year-to-date, Wireline capital of $4.6 billion was about 3% lower. Our previously announced spectrum transactions all closed during the third quarter, representing a net cash outlay of $3.7 billion. In return, we received about 5.9 billion megahertz POPs of high-quality AWS spectrum.

Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong. Total debt of $52.8 billion was down $2.4 billion from the end of last year. Net debt was $43.1 billion at the end of the quarter, and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.1 times.

I'd like to spend the next few minutes discussing pension liabilities and funding, starting on slide six. Yesterday, after the market closed, we announced that we will be transferring approximately $7.5 billion of management retiree pension benefit obligations to Prudential by purchasing a group annuity contract. Prudential will assume the responsibility of making monthly pension payments to approximately 41,000 management retirees. The transfer will not change the amount of the monthly pension benefit received by these retirees or their surviving beneficiaries. Pension obligations relating to active management and union-represented employees and retirees are not affected.

The transaction will remove about 25% of our outstanding pension liabilities upon closing, which we expect to occur in December.

Turning to slide seven, this transaction is part of an overall pension de-risking strategy, and reduces our exposure to funding and income statement volatility caused by changes in investment returns, discount rates and longevity risk. It also allows us to transfer this liability at reasonable economics and avoid certain administrative costs, while improving the longer-term financial profile of the business.

As a result of this transaction, some additional cash funding will be required in 2012 to fully fund the pension obligations being transferred to Prudential and to maintain the funded status of the pension liabilities that will remain with Verizon. In terms of timing, we already made an additional $930 million pension contribution in September. So on a year-to-date basis, we have made $1.8 billion in contributions. In the fourth quarter, we expect to make another $1.6 billion cash contribution.

Our revised outlook for pension funding in 2012 is estimated to be $3.4 billion as compared to the $1.3 billion we estimated at the beginning of the year. While this represents more funding this year, we will have no cash funding requirements for pensions in 2013. Based on our current plan assumptions, we also expect contribution requirements in future years to be lower as a result of this transaction.

Let's now move into the review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide eight. Our Wireless business had another excellent quarter, with accelerating growth in retail postpaid connections, better-than-expected adoption and financial performance of our new Share Everything plans and strong growth in postpaid revenue per account or ARPA. Even more impressive is the fact that we achieved a 50% EBITDA service margin, while activating more smartphones than any other quarter in our history, with the exception of the fourth quarter last year.

Total Wireless revenues of $19 billion grew 7.3% and represent 65% of Verizon's consolidated revenue year-to-date. Retail service revenue grew 7.9% and total service revenue growth was 7.5% in both the third quarter and year-to-date.

As John mentioned, we are disclosing new retail postpaid metrics, replacing ARPU with ARPA, as well as providing the number of postpaid accounts and the average connections per account. The change in reporting aligns with the strategic intent of our shared data plans, which is to encourage device adoption and stimulate usage on our wireless network. Since driving service revenue growth is the key to our business model, the more relevant metric going forward is the amount of revenue that we generate per account.

During the quarter, ARPA grew to more than $145 per month, an increase of 6.5%. In only three months, 13% of the retail postpaid base adopted Share Everything plans. Adoption is ahead of our expectations and ARPA dilution has been lower, as we are seeing existing customers adding devices and increasing their data usage allowances.

The combination of incremental revenue from new customers, smartphone upgrades, increased devices connecting to our network and higher usage will more than make up for the effects of the customers initially optimizing their accounts. Device adoption and data usage will become the primary drivers of service revenue growth for years to come.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide nine. As we mentioned coming out of the second quarter, our retail postpaid net adds have continued to accelerate. With our strong performance, I am very confident that we continued to gain postpaid market share in the quarter. In addition to our strong device portfolio, network reliability and 4G LTE advantage, the introduction of our Share Everything plans proved to be yet another compelling reason for customers to choose Verizon.

During the quarter, we added 1.8 million new retail net connections, with more than 1.5 million postpaid and 228,000 prepaid. We have an industry-leading 95.9 million retail connections, with approximately 90.4 million postpaid and 5.5 million prepaid. Our 90.4 million postpaid connections represent 34.8 million accounts, with an average of 2.6 connections per account.

Before discussing our postpaid results in more detail, let me highlight our retail prepaid performance, where we had another strong quarter. Net adds of 228,000 were significantly higher than a year ago, and prepaid revenue continued to positively impact retail service revenue growth. In retail postpaid, our 1.5 million net adds represent a substantial sequential increase from 888,000 in the second quarter and the highest total we've reported in four years. Roughly one third of these net adds were Internet devices, which include USB modems, Jetpacks and postpaid tablets.

Roughly 95% of our postpaid Internet device activations this quarter were 4G LTE, which is very positive from a data usage perspective and provides additional evidence that our Share Everything plans are stimulating device adoption. As you know, we are the market leader in this space, with 8 million Internet device connections in our retail postpaid base and, more importantly, over half of these are 4G LTE.

Our churn metrics continue to be market-leading. Retail postpaid churn of 0.91% improved by three basis points year over year, and was up only seven basis points sequentially in what is typically a seasonally higher quarter. Postpaid gross adds in the quarter were very strong at 4 million, up 27% sequentially and 20% year-over-year, also the highest gross add quarter in four years. The number of customers upgrading devices was slightly less than last quarter, representing 6.8% of our retail postpaid connection space.

Next, let's turn to slide 10 and take a look at smartphones and our progress in 4G LTE. Smartphone penetration increased from just below 50% last quarter to more than 53%, a strong quarter in terms of smartphone adoption. As expected, an increasing majority of postpaid phone sales were smartphones. In the third quarter, we activated 6.8 million smartphones, representing 79% of the total phone category. 3.4 million of these smartphones were Android, of which 3 million were 4G LTE. In terms of Apple iPhones, we activated 3.1 million in the quarter, 21% of which were 4G LTE.

Another important point is the improving mix of gross adds and upgrades within our smartphone activations. In the third quarter, the percent new to Verizon increased to 31% of total activations, a sharp improvement from the 20% to 23% range we have reported in past quarters. This higher gross add mix is recognition of our 4G LTE network advantage, since an increasing percentage of our smartphone activations are 4G LTE.

In addition, within the customer upgrades, 44% were buying a smartphone for the first time. In terms of 4G LTE coverage, we are by far the market leader. Our 4G LTE service is currently available in 419 markets covering more than 250 million POPs, roughly 80% of the US population. As our TV commercials say, we have more 4G LTE coverage than all of our competitors' networks combined. We will continue expanding our 4G LTE network, with a goal of having a nationwide footprint similar to our 3G network next year.

Sales of 4G LTE devices have risen steadily each and every quarter since we launched service in late 2010. In the third quarter, this increase was more dramatic as 4G LTE smartphone activations increased to 3.7 million from 2.5 million in the second quarter. At the end of the quarter, we had 14.9 million 4G LTE phones and devices in our postpaid base, representing 16.5% of total retail postpaid connections. Said another way, 25% of our smartphones and 51% of our Internet devices are 4G LTE. Very impressive numbers in a relatively short period of time.

However, we expect these percentages to continue to ramp as all-new smartphones in our device roadmap will be 4G LTE.

Looking ahead, we see a great deal of new product development activity in M2M, particularly in health care and energy. We are also collaborating on an innovative video roadmap with the cable companies as part of our technology joint venture.

Let's conclude our Wireless review with a discussion about profitability on slide 11. We generated $8.1 billion of EBITDA in the third quarter, an increase of 12.4%, and expanded our EBITDA service margin by 100 basis points sequentially to 50%. Again, we achieved this record profitability in a quarter in which we reported the highest number of gross and net adds in four years. Simply stated, our margin performance is a testament to our demonstrated and consistent ability to execute well on our strategy of achieving both growth and profitability. The combination of sustainable service revenue growth, an intense focus on cost management and consistently excellent churn metrics are all contributing factors to our industry-leading margin performance.

In terms of managing our cost, we will continue to look at any and all opportunities within the business to drive process improvements and operating efficiencies. As I've previously indicated, we identified $2 billion in cost-saving opportunities in Wireless this year and we have already surpassed that target.

Let's move to our Wireline segment next, starting with mass markets on slide 12. Mass markets revenue grew 3.8%, due primarily to accelerating growth in the consumer business. Our 4.6% revenue growth was the highest we've seen in 10 years, and we are on track to achieve at least a 5% growth rate in the fourth quarter. This growth, of course, was driven by FiOS, where revenue grew 18% in the third quarter and now represents about two thirds of consumer revenue. The increasing scale of FiOS is driving growth in consumer revenue per month, which increased to nearly $104 in the quarter, up 10.3%. FiOS ARPU is now over $150 per month, and about two thirds of our FiOS consumer customers are triple play, with voice, Internet and video services.

In terms of broadband customer growth, we had 136,000 new FiOS Internet additions in the quarter, and now have nearly 5.3 million subscribers, representing penetration of 37%. In DSL, we had a net loss of 144,000, which is a bit higher than the last few quarters. Again, our decision to discontinue offering dry-loop DSL had a negative impact on gross adds, but was clearly the right decision from a profitability standpoint.

In spite of the lack of net subscriber growth, broadband revenues increased both sequentially and year over year, driven by our Quantum offer and copper-to-fiber migrations.

In FiOS Video, we added about 120,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.6 million, and increasing our penetration to 33%. In terms of FiOS customer growth, we did experience some seasonality with respect to churn, due in part to an increase in customers moving and also some elasticity related to our price increases. Based on our current sales activity, we are expecting improvement in FiOS customer adds in the fourth quarter, along with our continuing revenue growth trajectory.

Within mass markets, we are focused on driving revenue growth, improving operating and capital efficiency and maximizing profitability. Key actions this year included targeted price increases, new, differentiated services like FiOS Quantum and our copper-to-fiber migration initiative, which is helping to reduce our dependence on copper technology.

Through nine months, we have migrated about 150,000 homes to fiber, and we are on track to exceed 200,000 by the end of the year. We have already experienced a greater than 10% improvement in our trouble report rate, which is saving on repair costs in these areas. We are also beginning to gain some traction in upselling new customers to additional FiOS services, which will result in additional monthly recurring revenue.

We will have more to say going forward with regard to this important initiative, including how many homes will we be targeting in 2013. Suffice it to say that we are pleased with our progress to date and view the copper-to-fiber migration as an important part of our strategy to reduce the Wireline cost structure.

Before moving on, I would also add that our residential connection trends continued to improve. During the third quarter, we lost 217,000 retail residential connections, representing a 6.3% decline year-over-year compared with a loss of 278,000 or 8% at this time last year.

Let's move to our Enterprise markets next on slide 13. As I said in my overview, our challenge in the Enterprise markets is primarily one of secular pressures and global economic conditions, which include foreign exchange movements. In addition, as we previously noted, we are making deliberate moves to rationalize and simplify our Enterprise Solutions product portfolio, which is also putting near-term pressure on revenue comparisons.

In the third quarter, Global Enterprise revenue was down $39 million sequentially and declined $140 million or 3.6% compared with a year ago, a majority of which were due to intentional actions on our part. This includes the de-emphasis of drop-ship CPE and decommissioning end-of-life products like ATM, frame relay and IP VPN. Lower CPE sales represented $139 million of the year-over-year decline. Foreign currency translation also had an unfavorable impact on revenue, as the stronger dollar versus the euro and pound sterling caused a $40 million decline in the third quarter compared with a $37 million increase a year ago.

We are confident that our product rationalization and streamlining initiatives will fundamentally strengthen the business and improve our operating efficiency. We are also taking actions to enhance our network, facilities and overall end-to-end service provisioning in order to put the business in a stronger position to benefit when the global economy picks up. These strategic and operational activities are creating some margin pressure in the near term, but will result in improved profitability in 2013.

Strategic Services, which comprise 53% of Global Enterprise revenue, totaled $2 billion, up 4.4%. While we continue to perform relatively well in these services, international and FX continue to have an adverse effect on growth. Domestically, we are seeing new contracts and investment decisions being delayed as enterprise CIOs continue to be cautious with regard to uncertainties involving the election outcome, the pending fiscal cliff, potential tax reform and other policy changes that may take place. Collectively, these uncertainties have created a wait-and-see approach that is impacting new business.

We believe that a better understanding of these impacts will help companies make decisions about their capital commitments, and we are hopeful that enterprises renew their investing activities in 2013.

During this period, Verizon Enterprise Solutions continues to strengthen its competitive position in higher-growth markets like cloud computing, machine-to-machine and advanced communications. In late July, we completed the acquisition of Hughes Telematics, which will expand and accelerate our capabilities in advanced automotive, fleet telematics and many other machine-to-machine services.

Moving next to Global Wholesale, revenues in the third quarter declined $45 million sequentially and $181 million or 9.2% year-over-year, due primarily to continued declines in Transport Services. We are taking the necessary actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and to better position the business in the fiber-based ethernet data services space, as customers with special access transition from DS1s and DS3s.

Let's move on to slide 14 next, to summarize Wireline. From a top-line perspective, the overall picture is mixed, with some very encouraging signs in the consumer market, while we continue to manage through secular and cyclical challenges in Enterprise and Wholesale. Our product rationalization initiatives, while putting some near-term pressure on revenue, will ultimately serve to strengthen the business.

At the beginning of the year, we were optimistic that EBITDA margin in the second half of 2012 would show improvement compared to the first half. As I have stated at a few investor conferences in September, we no longer see this being the case, due primarily to growth challenges on the Enterprise side and the length of time it took to reach an agreement with our unions.

In addition, some of the activities to reduce our reliance on older technologies and systems, along with the many process reengineering efforts we have going, have created margin pressure in the near term. Collectively, all these initiatives are designed to improve the Wireline cost structure. We fully expect that these and other cost management actions will result in improved profitability in 2013 and over the longer term.

To that end, for the past 15 months, we have talked about the importance of concluding our union contract negotiations and coming up with a contract that is fair and balanced for our employees, but at the same time addresses some key issues related to our ability to achieve improvements in our cost structure. Let's talk a bit more about the contract on slide 15.

On September 19, we reached a tentative agreement with the CWA and IBEW for new three-year contracts covering about 43,000 associates. The contracts are currently in the ratification process, which typically takes 30 days, so we hope to be able to announce a definitive agreement very soon.

Under the tentative agreement, there are changes to medical and prescription drug plans for active and retired associates, including contributions toward health care premiums for active employees. In addition, current retirees will make contributions toward health care premiums for some medical plans, while associates who retire after January 1, 2013 will make premium contributions regardless of the medical plan which they enroll in. New associates hired from this point forward will be eligible to participate in a 401(k) savings plan instead of a traditional pension plan.

The agreement also makes changes to old legacy policies, including tighter absence controls and better quality control and training practices. There are new provisions that will result in better work rule flexibility, such as national call sharing, which will improve the customer experience and allow our associates to work more efficiently and cost-effectively.

Since the contract has not yet been ratified, I am not going to quantify the annual cost savings at this time. We will have an opportunity to communicate this information at an investor conference in early November, so stay tuned for more information on this subject.

Let's move now to our summary slide. Overall, a very good third quarter, keeping us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year. We are executing our plans and investing for the future. Consolidated revenue growth is increasing, and we have had four successive quarters of EBITDA margin expansion, with the third quarter being the highest margin since 2008.

We have built strong earnings momentum with three successive quarters of double-digit growth, and have generated 50% more free cash flow than last year at this time. Our disciplined capital spending and revenue growth is driving improved capital efficiency.

In Wireless, we further solidified our excellent spectrum position by closing all our pending transactions. And with our 4G LTE network advantage, our unmatched product portfolio and our well-received Share Everything plans, we feel confident about our ability to sustain our industry-leading profitability in 2013 and beyond.

In Wireline, although we have work to do, we are putting the right plans in place to strengthen the business and improve profitability in 2013 and over the longer term. Our strategic investments and actions position us very well for sustainable growth. We continue to build for the future, and while we may have some near-term challenges, we are successfully executing a well-conceived plan that will drive profitability and create shareholder value in 2013 and into the future.

With that, I will now turn the call back to John so we can address your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for question, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. First on FiOS, just a question on video. Fran, you talked about churn impact in the quarter and you talked about the potential for this to rebound next quarter. I think what you talked about on the 2Q call was sort of a normal run rate of more like 150 to 170. Is that still the target range we should think about for 4Q?

And second question, just on a pension structure in terms of this deal and the $7.5 billion. Can you help us think through how that impacts the P&L, what that does to the expense stream in Wireline? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First, on the FiOS growth, yes, I think that I gave a range of 150 to 170. Where we came out of September, I am very confident that we will get to that 150 plus for net adds in the fourth quarter, so I think that is a good target.

And then on the pension side, I think that from a P&L perspective, it is very hard for me to distinguish at this point in time. There are so many fluctuations here. But I think the key to this whole thing -- a couple of points I want to make here.

So from just an overall cash perspective, which is the real -- the key here, because this is really the cash impact of the business, as you know, we made a first-half contribution of $600 million in the third quarter. We added another $1.2 billion to the plan, so $1.8 billion from a cash impact perspective to date. And in the fourth quarter, we determined that we will put another $1.6 billion into the plan.

All these contributions are tax-deductible. We will not have any 2013 contributions. And that based on our planning and the assumptions that we have in this transaction, the future cash contributions to the pension plan will be less post this transaction close, which we anticipate to be early December. So from that perspective, that to me is the important part. I think everything else is pretty minimal at this point in time.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Thanks, Fran. And you talked about this being applicable to current retirees. Is there any prospects for taking this into sort of the active employee base?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think at this time, we have no more definitive agreements at this time to extend this transaction. This transaction is specifically related to management retirees who retired before January 1 of 2010. It does not impact current, active management employees. It does not impact current, active union-represented employees, nor does it impact retiree union-represented employees.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. If we could just talk about the margins a little bit here, first on the Wireless side. Last year, you guys saw a little over 500 -- between 500 and 600 sequential decline in the fourth quarter, most of it related to the fourth-quarter launch of the iPhone.

Does the earlier launch of the iPhone sort of lower that decline, along with some of the other initiatives you've been doing? If you could just talk about what do you expect from a trending standpoint there.

And then over on the Wireline side, I know you guys don't want to give the details on the union contract. But can we start to see some of the benefits as early as the fourth quarter, or what kind of trend are you looking for there? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay. Thanks, John. On the Wireless margin, this has a lot to do with volume. The iPhone 5 came out in very late September. There really wasn't all that much volume on the iPhone 5. If you look at our total iPhone adds, we added 3.1 million, 1.1 million more than we did a year ago. And about 651,000 of them were iPhone 5s; the rest were 4 and 4S.

And what we are seeing here is we are seeing that the iPhone 5, we had a supply constraints. We're not sure where we are going to stand in the fourth quarter with those constraints. But what we are seeing on the 4 and the 4S is that we are attracting customers who probably previously did not come to Verizon because of the cost point of that iPhone. So I think you saw that in our net add growth for the quarter. So again, from a trending perspective and all the work that we've done around costs and the $2 billion -- and if you look at the three years, we've taken out $5 billion of cost structure on Wireless -- again, I think that given the volume, there could be some dilution in that margin if the volumes exceed what they were in the third quarter, which I anticipate they will.

If you recall back to the first quarter, I said we would accelerate our growth throughout the quarters for the year. As we come out of the third quarter, you saw we posted our highest growth in the last four years, and I think that we will accelerate that growth into the fourth quarter.

So yes, I think we will have some deterioration in the margins in the fourth quarter for Wireless, but at this point I can't tell you what that will be because I don't know what the volume will be. But obviously, I don't anticipate it to be as much as it was a year ago.

JOHN HODULIK: Great.

FRAN SHAMMO: And then on the Wireline side, I think this story is a much more complex story. But in the short -- just for the union piece of this, I think we will wait until the fourth quarter, but you're not going to see any benefit this year. But I don't want to really get into the details until this contract is ratified. A number of unions have ratified it, but it will not be ratified by all until the next couple of days are over. So once that happens, I will give some more clarity around this during the fourth quarter and into the first quarter.

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning. Fran, could you talk to us about the 700 megahertz spectrum process, where you stand in that, how it is looking so far, when do you think you might be able to give us some more news on that? And then what are the implications of that, and what is the likely timing of another decision on a Verizon Wireless dividend to the parent Verizon and to Vodafone? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. So on the 700 megahertz, we started this process late in the third quarter. The process is ongoing. We have a lot of interested parties, a lot of complexity to the bidding process here from the individual respective parties. So there is a lot of work to be done here, and we are not ready to talk about exactly where we are with these.

I think the important point, though, is we are going to analyze each and every bid. We are also developing our own internal plans to launch this spectrum, because as I said before, this is not a fire sale on spectrum. So if we do not get fair value or what we believe to be fair value, then we will use this spectrum internally. But at this point I think it is too early to communicate exactly how this will proceed.

So I think it will happen late in the fourth quarter, possibly not until the first quarter. And if we do come to terms with some of these, then it has to go through the normal FCC approval. We probably wouldn't close on that probably until late third quarter, fourth quarter of 2013.

As far as Vodafone dividend, this is a very interesting question, because I think we all forget that on January of 2012, we actually did do a dividend of $10 billion, and throughout the year during our normal course, we did about another $4.5 billion of tax distributions. So year-to-date, we've done $14.5 billion of dividend distributions out of Wireless.

To talk about a further dividend I think is premature. We have an agreement with Vodafone that we will discuss this before the end of the year, and once we have that discussion, then we will report out what the decision will be.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two things. One, I wonder if you can tell us whether a substantially higher portion of phones came in with no subsidy this quarter, people paying full price in order to stay on their previous plan, than happened in the past.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Phil. So we -- I mean, obviously, if you look at our growth and you look at the number of phones we moved, the majority of the phone sales incurred a subsidy on them. But we did have a number of customers who actually paid full price for phones to remain on the unlimited plan. So we did have some customers who made that choice and stayed with Verizon Wireless. But for the majority, most of the smartphones that we sold included a subsidy.

But we also had a large volume in our post-paid tablet category, and we also had a large volume in our Internet category, and they carry, for the post-paid tablets, really no subsidy. And on the Internet devices, we almost doubled the amount of net adds we had from second quarter to third quarter, which was a contribution to our Share Everything Plan, and they have a reduced subsidy compared to what a smartphone would be. But the majority of the devices did have a subsidy.

PHIL CUSICK: Good. And then you mentioned that given the September results, you expect FiOS to be over 150. Is that more a seasonal shift, or are you putting a little more effort into promotion and marketing here?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think it's a combination of a couple things. Number one, I think, as I said, coming out of the second quarter, we probably moved away a little bit too much of promotional activity. So we picked that up in September.

But we -- also in the third quarter is a very high seasonality of moves for us. And this is always a third-quarter issue with FiOS, because people move out of the area, and we can't retain them because they move to an area that does not have FiOS availability to them.

We are doing a lot of effort in reconnecting existing homes that already have an ONT on the side of the house, for people who have moved in, so you are going to see a lot more activity around that. And I also think that we did see some pressure in the current base from the price ups that we had. And I think those price ups are all done now. So I think we are going to stabilize here, and I'm very comfortable that we'll get back to that 150,000 plus for a net add projection.

PHIL CUSICK: Good. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Jefferies.

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Thanks for taking the question. Fran, I'd like to discuss the copper shutdown a little bit. AT&T has publicly stated that for them to invest in the 20 million access lines that they've got under strategic review, they are going to need relief from copper circuit-switched TDM regulations. If they were to get that, would you consider applying for the same relief and accelerating the copper shutdown?

I ask because at current course and speed, in the neighborhood of 200,000 conversions per year, that is 50-plus years to shut down the redundant copper plant, and it is probably the largest structural impediment to improving Wireline margins.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Tom. From a copper shutdown perspective, I think it is highly unlikely that you will ever see Verizon have no copper in their network because of the vastness of this network. But I think strategically, the way we have approached this from a copper-to-fiber migration is all copper is not created equal. We have areas where the copper has really deteriorated because it is 60-years plus, and we are strategically going after what we call chronic troubles. And that is 2 truck rolls that happen in the period of six months' time, and that costs us about $900 in cash from a perspective of that.

So when you look at the overall investment that we have to make to migrate that customer from copper to FiOS, it is more cost-effective to go after those chronic problems first. But not all of the network that leads into one switch is having these chronic problems. So to think about decommissioning every switch in our network would be a huge cost undertaking. So we believe that the strategy we've outlaid with our copper-to-fiber migration is financially viable. It is better for the customer. We see that from the customers we have migrated in the short term, they are actually buying up into FiOS Quantum and generating $10 plus more ARPU.

So we are strategically going after this. We have also received a lot of regulatory relief already in the states that we deal with, from being a carrier of last resort, replacing in Pennsylvania, fulfilling our obligation of bringing broadband to customers via a PA-30 ruling, which would be with wireless instead of wireline, which is a much more financial beneficial to Verizon. So we have already explored a lot of this regulatory highway, and we will continue with our copper-to-fiber migration under the plan that we are executing.

TOM SEITZ: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thanks for taking the questions. First, if I could ask what's, I guess, become my quarterly question, for an update on the net debt at Verizon Wireless.

And then secondly, just leaning over to the Wireline side, can you give us an update on the VDMS segment, and just the strategy that you are continuing to pursue there, the progress, including the relationship that you have with Redbox? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. Your general normal quarterly question, I have it right here. It is gross debt of $10 billion, cash of $8.1 billion, so net debt of about $1.9 billion.

And then on the Wireline side of the house with VDMS, we are making significant progress. We have been dealing with what we call a number of chartered customers, which includes many content providers and movie houses, in helping us to customize this package and get this thing to market.

We anticipate that it will come to market in 2013. I won't be specific on that date at this point in time. But we believe we have a very viable product to come to marketplace that will significantly change the way content is, if you will, packaged and picked and shipped. So we will have more to say on that within 2013, but I think that will start to contribute through some of the Wireline top growth and help to improve the margin overall.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

FRAN SHAMMO: I'm sorry -- I mentioned -- Redbox, we are very close to launching here in the fourth quarter of Redbox. VDMS plays a very critical role in the content delivery with that joint venture with Redbox.

And again, I think moving into 2013, the business case that we have with us with Redbox will improve our top line and contribute to the profitability of the overall Wireline segment.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Great. Thank you, Fran. If I could, could you provide a little color on your CapEx trend? I understand you're saving on the 3G spend, but given these impressive postpaid net add results and growth in Internet devices, I would think you would need to continue to spend on capacity. I guess I'm just trying to understand if this is all a benefit of slowing 3G or also a result of your spectrum position.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jennifer, for the question. I think that from a CapEx perspective, as I said all along, I believe that 2012 would be flat. I'm saying now it will definitely be down from our 2011 spend. I think the trajectory into 2013 will be very similar to the 2012.

I think what you will see is what you saw in the third quarter, that we continue to very closely manage the CapEx on the Wireline side of the business. Meanwhile, Wireless will continue with their plan to build out the 4G LTE by mid-year next year to compare to our 3G footprint. I don't see a substantial change in the CapEx trajectory here. But obviously, this does depend on growth, and we hang our hat on being the best network, most reliable network in the industry, and we are not going to lose that position.

So Wireless has been A-plus in this area, and I don't believe that will change. But I don't think there is a significant change in the capital projectory here.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA: Thanks, guys. Fran, maybe just a quick comment. You talked a little bit about the copper migration process and there is obviously some legs to that, and the longer-term benefits, I think, are pretty clear. But just give us a sense, if you can, as to maybe the magnitude of margin pressure as you do that migration process over the next year or so.

And secondly, on the Wireless side, we've had a sort of honeymoon with the change in policy with respect to upgrade window, that I think should be coming to a close right about now. So as we look into the fourth quarter, and we've got this pool of people that are now upgrade eligible that have not been for the last six months, how should we be thinking about upgrade percentages as we go through maybe both 4Q, as well as 1Q? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Mike. So migration and Wireline pressure, I guess there are a couple things here. And it is not just the migration. But obviously, doing some of this work does increase some CapEx to us and does increase some of the operating expense to us. But I would say that is in combination with a lot of other things that we are doing. But this positions us for the future.

I would say, though, that beyond this, from a pressure standpoint on Wireline, obviously the third quarter to us is always a seasonal pressure point from a weather condition, a construction issue, fiber cuts and so forth. So that is not unusual, for the third quarter to be a bigger margin pressure for us.

But the delay of the union contract had an impact on our margins. The Hughes results -- obviously, if you go back and look at Hughes on a stand-alone basis, they contribute to dilution in the Wireline segment, because that is now included in the Wireline. As we said, we are in the process of retooling the Enterprise, which is putting a little bit of pressure in the expense category, with system consolidation and product rationalization.

And then we also deliberately have gone out during the third quarter, and we will probably do a little bit of this in the fourth quarter, and accelerated some of the repairs and maintenance within our facilities. We are also doing some additional work in our networks to increase our diversity and reliability within the Wireline network.

So there is a lot of things that is putting a little bit of pressure on the Wireline. But again, I think we are taking this opportunity during the lull of the economic condition, preparing for this economic turn that hopefully will come in 2013. And I think we will be in a better position to ride that wave when it comes. So I think it is a combination of all that.

And then on the Wireless side with the upgrade window, I guess the way I would put it this way is our upgrade percentage will be more in the fourth quarter than it was in the third quarter, but I will tell you I think it will be less than the fourth quarter of a year ago.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay. And just -- I'm sorry -- to circle back on the Wireline side, should we be thinking about the third quarter as not the right starting point as we go into fourth quarter, if it is -- the seasonality impact, we would be looking at 2Q as the run rate?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think what I would say is for the third and the fourth quarter, I think you will see similar performance here while we reposition ourselves, but this will position us for improved profitability in 2013.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Thank you. There have been a lot of questions this week on what the impact will be for the Softbank's entry into the US. Does this at all change the way you run your business over the next couple years while Sprint and T-Mobile are going through the regulatory approval, integration and network buildout processes? And what, if anything, will be the long-term impact on Verizon's Wireless business?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you so much for the questions. So let me just start out with a couple things here, because I think it is important. First, as I said in a few of the investor conferences, I anticipated and we suspected some consolidation. And I think what the market should walk away with here is that there are two very large companies willing to invest in the US wireless market. I believe this is a sign that it is very good for the industry, and I think this shows the strength of the US market and the growth potential that is still available within this market.

I think what this means from us is a couple things. First, if you go back to January in 2011, the biggest point that Lowell and I made was we are all about executing on our plan. We have invested and built and remained on our brand to be the best and most reliable network. We have pioneered, launched and now are the largest 4G LTE network, with more coverage than all of our competitors combined. I think if you look at our spectrum holding, we have a superior spectrum holding and quality of spectrum, with our 700 megahertz contiguous across the United States, which we've launched our 4G LTE network on, and with the closing of our AWS spectrum with the cable companies. So I think we are in a very strong position from a spectrum holding perspective.

If you look at our capital -- and in the past, we've taken a little heat from the market for the amount of capital that we have spent on our networks -- but if you look at, on average, we spend about $10 billion per year investing in our Wireless and our Wireline IP backbone support for that Wireless network. And I think at the end of the day, I think you would all agree that execution equals results here. I think the third-quarter results speak for themselves.

So we will continue to execute, and we will continue to lead the industry.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Thanks a lot. Just a quick question. Media reports indicate Isis is finally launching on Monday. Can you confirm this, and what is the strategy going to be there to compete against Square, Google Wallet and others?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think at this point, I think we let Isis answer those questions. They are going to launch, and we will see how the trial markets do and then we will go from there.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Great.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. Now that we are getting some visibility here on the number of postpaid accounts that you have, I was wondering if you can give us a little more color here on the portion of them that are business accounts. And then just sticking with Shared Everything, it sounds like the initial benefit you got out of the gate was that households are starting to attach Internet devices like tablets and other and MiFis. Was that the principal benefit, or did you actually see an increase in the attachment rate of smartphones on existing households, meaning that maybe homes were taking advantage of the plan to consolidate people who maybe had been on different carriers all on to Verizon?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Brad. So on the accounts, we are not going to split the accounts here between business and consumer. So we will just leave it as we will give the accounts, we will give the devices per account and the ARPA on that.

As far as the Shared Everything plans, I think the best answer is we are seeing a little bit of everything. We are seeing our customers move from their old legacy plans. We are seeing customers who were on unlimited plans move to Share Everything plan. Now, you would think that these initial customers that moved are optimizing from that, but what we are seeing is that they are attaching more devices. That includes more smartphones. And especially with the price points now on some of the lower-end iPhones that we have, we are seeing more attachment rates there.

We are seeing a lot of attachment on Internet WiFi devices. And I think what we are seeing is they are attaching the MiFi device at a $20 price point, rather than each individually attaching a tablet. So I think we are seeing very good success in MiFi attachment rates. And from tablets, we are seeing some of that, but probably not as much as we had expected. But the MiFi attach rate is running extremely higher than we expected.

So I think overall, again, what we are seeing in Shared Everything is better than what we had expected in our business case.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thanks for taking the question.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, we are going to take two more questions. I know folks have had a busy night with our pension release, as well as -- that's why we got our earnings out a little bit early. So we will take two more. I know you also have another -- a busy day ahead of you with some other meetings. So let's move on for two more questions.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. Fran, two questions. One related to the data side of things. It looks like Sprint and T-Mobile are really going to be focused on unlimited data. As they get their networks up to speed in a few years, how do you convey to your customers that your shared data is still economical and makes sense for customers? Like really, how do you position against that, and do you think they can continue to afford to do it?

And then secondly, as these companies really restructure their networks the next two years, historically, have you been able to capture share too those periods? And do you think you will be able to kind of do that again? I know it is early stages with what PCS and T-Mobile are doing, what Sprint is doing. But maybe your expectations for the next few years in share gains.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks for the question. I guess I tried to answer your question in my speech on industry consolidation, but maybe I didn't do a good enough job.

But on the data side of the house, I think our network and our competitive advantage speaks for itself. And I think the superiority of our network, I think, what you're seeing is that we are competing in that arena today against the unlimited plans.

As far as the network goes, we've invested $10 billion probably the last 10 years in our network. It is going to be difficult for others to make that within two years, as you say, so I think it is a longer-term plan.

But, look, I think it is all good for the industry. I think the industry is focused on the growth. There is a lot of opportunity out there. And I think we have proven that we can be a leader in the industry and we will continue to do that.

TIM HORAN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. Looking at the upgrade rate, it looks like you're on a trend to have an upgrade rate this year that is below your historical rate of about 32% a year. Can that continue to go down in 2013? And if it does, with 50% EBITDA margins in Wireless this quarter, where can Wireless EBITDA margins go next year and longer-term? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jonathan. So on the upgrade rate, yes, I do think it will decline. There is a lot of things that we took in place from 2010 all the way through that I think that will continue to happen, as I said, in the fourth quarter. I think will be more than the third quarter, obviously, but I think will be less than a year ago, and I see that trend continuing.

As far as wireless margins, I'll leave it at this. I think if you trend out on a graph over the last 10 years what Wireless has done, given we grow and we are profitable, I think you will see that we will continue to manage that balance and continue to increase our overall portfolio and our profitability.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Jonathan. Brad, that concludes our call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, and thank you for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i7902 : Telecommunications | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121101e8ai001xk
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,608 words
   PD
19 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations for Verizon.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am John Doherty. With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also available on the website.

Before Fran takes you through the details of our results, I would like to cover a few items upfront. Second-quarter earnings per share were $0.64, up 12.3% from last year and $0.05 higher than the first quarter. Through the first half of the year, EPS of $1.23 was 15% higher than a year ago. There were no special items of a nonoperational nature included in our reported results for the second quarter or the first half of this year or the comparable periods in 2011.

In terms of activity below the operating income line, you will note that equity and earnings from unconsolidated businesses, which is primarily our minority interest in Vodafone Italy, declined about $50 million this quarter due to the continued economic pressures in Europe. This represents about $0.02 in earnings per share. Other than that, there was nothing unusual in terms of other income, interest or income taxes.

I'd also point out that the quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted as sequential. With that, I will turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with a few comments about our financial results. We continue to execute well across the entire business. Solid top-line performance combined with a strong focus on profitability and cost management has resulted in double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share for the last two quarters.

This strong operating performance, together with our disciplined capital spending, is driving significant increases in free cash flow, resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business.

Through the first half of the year, we generated $7.8 billion of free cash flow, which is more than twice the amount we generated in the first half of 2011. The Wireless business is firing on all cylinders, and our strategic actions and results clearly demonstrate our position of leadership in the industry. We continue to post strong growth in retail service revenue, driven by increased smartphone penetration, Internet device adoption and new customer additions.

In the second quarter, this top-line growth, combined with effective cost management and excellent customer retention, resulted in our record-setting EBITDA service margin of 49%, which surpassed our previous high of 47.8% in the third quarter of last year.

In Wireline, consumer revenues were up 2.5%, which was the highest growth rate we've seen in several years. While we continue to face challenges in the enterprise and wholesale markets, we are confident that the decisions we are making and the actions we are taking are the right ones for the long-term.

We are intensely focused on profitability management, and key actions related to this include product portfolio rationalization, targeted pricing moves and cost management initiatives. I will go through these in more detail during our segment review. In time, these actions will result in improved Wireline profitability.

In spite of some revenue softness this quarter, we were able to increase the EBITDA margin by 50 basis points sequentially to 23.1%, and our objective is to have a stronger EBITDA margin in the second half of 2012. Overall, a strong second quarter and first half, putting us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year.

Let's begin our review with a look at consolidated results on slide four. We sustained solid consolidated growth trends in the quarter with contributions from all strategic areas. Consolidated revenue grew to $28.6 billion, up 3.7%. Our focus on expense controls helped drive double-digit operating income growth of 15.5%.

To put this in perspective, while consolidated revenue increased $310 million sequentially, operating income is up over $450 million. This clearly demonstrates that our product rationalization, cost management and process improvement efforts are starting to pay off. We continue to be very focused on improving profitability, moving more of every dollar we generate to the bottom line. Consolidated EBITDA grew to $9.8 billion, and our margin expanded to 34.2%, up 150 basis points on both a year-over-year and sequential basis.

The upshot is an improved earnings growth trajectory for this year. As John indicated in his introductory remarks, we posted better than 12% EPS growth in the second quarter, and we are up 15% year to date, which is at the upper end of the guidance we provided in January of last year.

Let's turn now to cash flow and capital spending on slide five. Our free cash flow this quarter increased $3 billion sequentially to $5.4 billion, driven by a 56% increase in cash from operations and reduced levels of capital spending. Capital expenditures totaled $3.9 billion in the quarter, a decrease of about $690 million compared to last year. For the first half, capital spending of $7.4 billion was down more than 16% year-to-date. Our outlook for the full year is flat to down versus $16.2 billion in 2011. We continue to expect our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio to decline, based on improving revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.

In Wireless, CapEx in the second quarter was $2 billion, which was 23% lower than last year. Through the first half, Wireless capital of $3.9 billion was down 27% year-over-year. You will recall that in the first half of last year, we were spending more for 3G capacity in connection with our initial launch of the iPhone. Going forward, we expect to see continued migration of traffic from 3G to our lower-cost 4G LTE platform, which will drive further improvements in operating and capital efficiency. We will also continue expanding our 4G LTE network coverage, which is already the largest in the nation by a wide margin.

In Wireline, we spent $1.6 billion in capital during the second quarter, 5.3% less than last year. Through the first half, Wireline capital was essentially flat with last year at $3.1 billion.

Our balance sheet and credit metrics remain very strong. Total debt of $52.4 billion is down $2.8 billion since the end of last year. Net debt was $42.4 billion at the end of June, and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2 times.

Let's now move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide six. Our Wireless business had another very impressive quarter, sustaining strong growth in retail service revenue, higher retail postpaid ARPU growth and excellent cost and churn management, resulting in our highest EBITDA service margin ever.

Total Wireless revenues of $18.6 billion grew 7.4% and now represent 65% of Verizon's consolidated revenue year-to-date. Our revenue results were driven by 8.6% growth in retail service revenue. Postpaid revenue, which makes up most of retail service, grew 8.3%. Retail prepaid revenue was also very strong, up 27.2%, the highest growth we've seen in four years.

Total service revenue grew 7.3% this quarter and is up 7.5% year-to-date. Data, which represents almost 44% of service revenue, grew 18.5% to $6.9 billion in the quarter. Retail postpaid data revenue grew more than 20%.

Let's take a closer look at connection growth on slide seven. We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market, driven by sustained demand for our 3G and 4G LTE handsets, tablets and Internet devices, with the unmatched service quality of the nation's largest and most reliable wireless network. We have an industry-leading 94.2 million retail connections, with nearly 89 million postpaid and more than 5.3 million prepaid. During the quarter, we added 1.2 million new retail net connections, 888,000 postpaid and 290,000 prepaid.

Before we discuss postpaid in more detail, I would highlight another strong quarter of retail prepaid performance, with a 24% sequential increase in net adds. Similar to last quarter, tablets represented a little more than half of the adds; however, this quarter, 95% of our prepaid tablet editions were 4G LTE, which is key from the standpoint of better operating and capital efficiency.

In postpaid, our 888,000 net adds represent a substantial sequential increase from 501,000 in the first quarter. Our porting ratios with the major carriers continue to be strong and our churn metrics remain excellent. Retail postpaid churn of 0.84% is the lowest we've seen in four years.

Postpaid gross additions in the quarter were just over 3.1 million, up about 3% sequentially. As expected, upgrades were lower sequentially, with about 7% of our postpaid base upgrading devices in the quarter. In addition to increasing smartphone penetration, we also continue to make good progress with Internet devices, which include postpaid tablets. In the second quarter, about 90% of the Internet devices sales were 4G LTE. We are far and away the market leader in this space, with more than 7.5 million Internet device connections in our retail postpaid base.

Next, let's turn to slide eight and take a look at smartphone and retail postpaid ARPU metrics. We had another strong quarter of smartphones sales, increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 50%. Once again, an increasing majority of retail postpaid phone sales were smartphones, 73% compared with 60% a year ago. During the second quarter, we activated 2.9 million Droid smartphones, 2.5 million of which were 4G LTE, and 2.7 million Apple iPhones, up from 2.3 million a year ago.

During the second quarter, 25% of iPhone sales were gross adds or new to Verizon, with 75% representing upgrades from existing customers. In terms of 4G phone sales, 20% were new to Verizon and 80% upgrades. Importantly, more than 40% of customers upgrading this quarter were buying a smart phone for the first time. Retail postpaid ARPU was $56.13 this quarter, up 3.7%, which was higher than the previous record growth of 3.6% last quarter.

In terms of the mix, retail postpaid phone ARPU of about $58 grew 4.9%, while Internet device ARPU of about $47 declined 6.6%. As expected, Internet device ARPU has become less dilutive to blended postpaid ARPU and growth. In addition, these devices continue to generate double-digit service revenue growth. Our 4G LTE deployment has expanded the market for these devices, all of which enable higher usage of our network.

Our Share Everything plans, which became available on June 28, represent a new and innovative pricing framework, providing a unique customer value proposition and at the same time creating an optimal way for us to monetize increasing data usage. The strategic thrust of these plans is to encourage device adoption and stimulate usage. Our plans are designed to make the decision to upgrade to a smartphone or add a tablet much easier. By allowing up to 10 devices to share data, these plans also provide for the creation and adoption of all kinds of new connected devices.

Early feedback has been great, and our customer adoption is tracking with our expectations. We are seeing a wide variety of customers and family share accounts opting into Share Everything, including existing smartphone customers with unlimited data plans.

Let's turn to slide nine, as I'd like to spend a few more minutes talking about the strength of our 4G LTE leadership. We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE coverage, which is now available in 337 markets covering more than 230 million POPs, which is nearly 75% of the US population. In point of fact, we have more 4G LTE coverage than all of our competitors' networks combined. Throughout the year, we will continue expanding our 4G LTE network, with a goal of having a nationwide footprint similar to our 3G network by mid-2013.

We continue to be very pleased with 4G LTE adoption. Customer awareness of our 4G LTE network superiority is increasing, and our new brand advertising further positions us as the network of choice for 4G LTE. Sales of 4G LTE devices have risen steadily each and every quarter since we launched service about a year and a half ago. During the second quarter, 4G LTE smartphone sales increased more than 16% sequentially to 2.5 million units.

Nearly 11 million, or 12%, of our 89 million retail postpaid connections are 4G LTE. Roughly 70% are smartphones and 30% are Internet devices. Stated another way, about 19% of our smartphone base has a 4G LTE handset, and more than 43% of our Internet device connections are 4G LTE.

While these statistics are impressive in their own right, they also show we have lots of room to grow, which is a very positive indicator for us looking forward. Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on slide 10.

We generated $7.7 billion of EBITDA in the quarter, which is an increase of 15.8%, and expanded our EBITDA service margin by 270 basis points sequentially to 49%, again, a record high for us.

Our margin performance is once again a testament to our sustained ability to execute well on our strategy of balancing growth and profitability. The combination of sustained service revenue and ARPU growth, an intense focus on cost management, lower upgrade eligibility and consistently excellent churn metrics are contributing to our industry-leading margin performance.

We will continue to look at all opportunities within our cost structure to drive process improvements and operating efficiencies. As I have previously indicated, we have identified $2 billion in cost savings opportunities in Wireless, and we remain right on track to successfully capture these savings.

On the transaction front, our purchase of the AWS licenses from SpectrumCo, Cox and Leap Wireless are at varying stages of review by the FCC and the Department of Justice. We continue to expect approval and to close these transactions this summer.

Our plans for an open-sale process for our 700 megahertz A and B spectrum licenses are proceeding as planned, but of course remain contingent upon the closing of the AWS purchases I just mentioned.

The agreement we announced in late June with T-Mobile to exchange specific spectrum in the AWS band is also contingent upon the closing of those transactions. These license transfers also require FCC approval, which is expected later this summer. These transactions are good for all parties and the industry as a whole, as we facilitate the best first use of this spectrum for all players. We appreciate the constructive role the FCC has played in this process and look forward to securing approval.

Let's move to our Wireline segment next, on slide 11. Second-quarter Wireline revenues were flat sequentially, but declined 3.1% year over year. From a profitability perspective, Wireline EBITDA declined 6% year-over-year, but improved about 2% on a sequential basis, with EBITDA margin moving up 50 basis points sequentially to 23.1% despite lower quarterly revenue.

Wireline revenue is affected by a number of underlying factors. On the upside, revenue growth is accelerating in the consumer market, driven by FiOS, which again, at 2.5%, was the highest growth we've seen in several years. Enterprise and wholesale revenue continues to be impacted by secular and global economic challenges, particularly in Europe, as well as by related foreign exchange movements.

In addition, as we indicated last quarter, we are also making deliberate and specific moves to rationalize and simplify our enterprise solutions product portfolio, eliminating products where they no longer make sense, reducing product complexity, streamlining services and consolidating networks to improve efficiency and product profitability. We currently have more than 700 different products and thousands of variations that are defined by particular geography, network or system. This portfolio simplification effort will dramatically improve our go-to-market speed and operations quality.

In the near-term, these actions create revenue impacts. Over time, however, the actions will result in margin benefits and improved profitability. We estimate that about 65% of the overall Wireline revenue decline this quarter was a result of our own deliberate actions to improve profitability. Examples include the de-emphasis of drop-ship CPE, the continued exit from certain international wholesale routes and contracts, decommissioning end-of-life products, like ATM, frame relay and IP VPN, no longer offering dry-loop DSL or selling DSL in FiOS markets, and exiting nonstrategic product lines like calling cards and payphones.

Again, we firmly believe that these are the right actions to be taking at this time. We are on the right track and I am confident that these product rationalization and process simplification initiatives, along with additional cost management actions, will improve the long-term profitability of the Wireline business.

Let's take a closer look at revenue results, starting with mass markets on slide 12. Within mass markets, consumer revenue growth of 2.5% improved from 1.7% and 1.3% in each of the last two quarters. As a result of pricing actions related to set-top box rentals, triple-play bundles and higher data speeds available through our new FiOS Quantum offer, the outlook for accelerating consumer revenue growth in the next several quarters looks very encouraging.

Our residential connections trends also continue to improve. We lost 199,000 retail residential connections in the quarter, representing a 6.6% decline year-over-year, compared with a loss of 240,000 or 8.2% at this time last year. FiOS revenue grew 17.4% in the quarter and now represents 65% of consumer revenue. As a result of the increasing scale of FiOS, total consumer ARPU is now over $100, up 8.5% from a year ago. FiOS ARPU now stands at more than $149 per month, and 70% of our FiOS consumer customers are triple-play, with voice, Internet and video services.

In terms of broadband, we added 134,000 new FiOS Internet additions and now have more than 5.1 million subscribers, representing a penetration of 36.6%. We had a net loss of 132,000 DSL subscribers, which is higher than the last few quarters, primarily due to seasonality. We believe that the discontinuance of dry-loop DSL also negatively impacted net adds, but was clearly the right decision from a profitability standpoint.

In FiOS Video, we added 120,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.5 million and increasing our penetration to 32.6%.

We continue to seek ways to drive the FiOS revenue growth, improve operating and capital efficiencies and maximize profitability. Key parts of this strategy include targeted pricing actions, further differentiating our services with the offers like FiOS Quantum, our copper-to-fiber migration in areas with chronic repair issues within FiOS markets, and a number of other cost management initiatives.

In light of these actions, we feel a more natural range for FiOS quarterly net adds going forward should be about 20,000 to 30,000 less than our previous range of 180,000 to 200,000. We are confident that at these levels we can still maintain an increasing revenue growth trajectory and expand profitability.

Let's move next to our business markets, starting with Global Enterprise. Global Enterprise revenue was down $32 million sequentially, or less than 1%, but declined $136 million, or 3.4%, year-over-year. In addition to a $70 million impact from lower CPE sales in the quarter, foreign currency translation had an $84 million adverse impact on growth, as the stronger dollar versus the euro and pound sterling caused a decline in the current quarter compared with a benefit a year ago. Absent these effects, we would have had positive revenue growth, in spite of the continued secular and global economic challenges.

Strategic Services, which comprises 52% of Global Enterprise revenue, totaled $2 billion, up 4.4%. While we continue to perform well in these services, international and FX are having an adverse effect on growth at this time.

Looking ahead, we do expect our Enterprise business to contribute more to the overall Wireline revenue growth and profitability, particularly as we work through our product streamlining and process efficiency initiatives. Our strategic realignment of Verizon Enterprise Solutions will better position us to unlock value in the core business while better aligning our strength in high-growth markets like cloud computing, machine-to-machine and advanced communications. We remain confident in the strength of the Enterprise asset portfolio and the value it will generate over the long-term.

On the acquisition front, of our purchase of Hughes Telematics has passed the Hart-Scott-Rodino stage and we expect to complete the transaction in the third quarter. We look forward to combining Hughes Telematics robust service delivery platform and suite of applications with our global IP network, cloud, mobility and security solutions. We believe that this platform has the potential to reach beyond automotive and transportation and create new M2M opportunities in mobile health, asset tracking and home automation, to name a few.

Moving next to Global Wholesale, revenues in the second quarter declined $34 million or 2% sequentially and $203 million or 10% year-over-year, due primarily to declines in transport services. We continue to take all the necessary actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts and to better position the business in the fiber-based ethernet data services space as customers with special access transition from DS1s and DS3s.

Let's move now to our summary slide. Overall, a strong second quarter and first half, putting us solidly on track to meet our financial objectives for the year. We continue to execute very well. Our solid top-line performance in the first half of the year has been fueled by strong retail service revenues in Wireless and increasing growth in Consumer Wireline. Our record high Wireless margins in the second quarter, combined with our strong focus on improving profitability through product rationalization and cost management in the Wireline, has driven double-digit growth in consolidated operating income and earnings per share for the last two quarters.

This strong operating performance, together with our disciplined capital spending, drove significant increases in free cash flow and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business. We expect to continue to build on this momentum and look forward to a strong second half of the year.

With that, I will now turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Before we jump into questions, I know that we are having some link issues with the IR website this morning. We are working on it and all of the typical documents will be available shortly, if they are not already. With that, Brad, let's take our first question please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Couple questions. First, on the FiOS metrics, you just talked about sort of a new range for additions that I guess implies more like 160,000 to 180,000 adds per quarter going forward. You slipped a little bit lower than that this quarter. Can you help us think through that? You obviously talked about some price hikes. Are we also at a point where the base is large enough that 2Q seasonality in video, i.e. where it is negative and then rebounds in 3Q, is starting to catch up with the business as well?

And second question just on the Wireless distribution. It was roughly this time last year you announced intentions for a $10 billion upstream payment to the JV partners. Can you help us think through maybe a timeline for announcing the distribution for next year? And then given the stronger free cash flow you've seen in the business, would that point sort of conceptually to a bigger distribution? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks for the questions. First, on the FiOS piece, just a couple things here. So, yes, there was -- we actually did have slower growth in this quarter than we anticipated, so a couple factors here. One was there was a seasonable -- unusually high move season in the month of June compared to prior second quarter. So we experienced some additional moves out. And normally in this business, it takes us a quarter to recapture the move in. So I think that partially was set off from a timing difference.

But more importantly, I think that we have we refocused more on a profit on the FiOS side. So first, we went through these price-ups. You saw some of the benefits there in the second quarter, where we drove our consumer revenue growth to 2.5%. And this was the price-ups of our set-top boxes, and you're going to see more price-ups coming in the third quarter around the bundles and into the fourth quarter.

In addition, we launched our Quantum product, and the price-ups that we have on people choosing additional speeds. I am extremely confident with both of these actions we can double our revenue growth by the end of this year, from 2.5%to around 5%, and I am very confident in that we can accomplish that. So one is we are really concentrating on revenue growth.

Second is, as you know, we've really concentrated around copper-to-FiOS migrations. We nearly doubled the amount of migrations we did in the second quarter versus the first quarter. And also what we are seeing is the first-quarter migrations that we accomplished, these customers are generating more ARPU post-migration than pre, because they are also selecting higher speeds under our Quantum offers.

So I think the range, as we said, is probably in the neighborhood of 150,000 to 170,000. I know you said 160,000 to 180,000 but it is around 150,000 to 170,000. But we are on a steady growth pattern, and I believe that we are really focusing in on better margins and acceleration of the top line.

On the Verizon Wireless dividend, I know there has been a lot of press lately out there, and I'm not sure where this idea is coming from. But I can tell you right now -- the only thing I will say is that there is no distribution on the agenda for the upcoming Verizon Wireless Board, and that is probably all I am going to say at this point in time.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thanks.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, could we move on to the next question please?

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Two quick ones for you on the Wireline side. First, Fran, thanks for all the info on the product rationalization on the wholesale side. But if you could give us some idea of when you think you should start to see some improvement. I think the 10% was a little bit worse than we thought. When do you think that could start to get better?

And second of all, if you could update us on the union contract and where you are in negotiations, that would be great.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the wholesale side, 10% decline. This was accelerated from 8.9% in the first quarter. And to be honest, I think that we are fighting an uphill battle here on the core voice and LD product, and that will continue to decline. The focus right now is to reposition ourselves for ethernet and fiber-to-the-cell, and those products are picking up. And I think that, quite honestly, the range that you see here is probably the range that will continue, is somewhere between an 8% to 10% decline going forward. But again, this is a diminishing revenue stream, and we will continue to manage that stream.

On the union side of the house, as I mentioned before, when we entered into these negotiations, we knew that this was going to be extremely difficult and very hard negotiations, and it was going to be a long haul, not a short haul. And given our peers, it took them 500 days to get the contributions and some pension resets, and we are now almost a year into this, or 365 days.

So when you look at the profitability of this business over the last five years, it has decreased and this cost structure is not sustainable going forward. We really need as a business to address this cost structure in relation to the benefits, particularly healthcare contributions and pensions, and we need increased flexibility around our work rules, which some of these work rules date back to 1960.

So we aren't asking for things that have not already been given to other companies. These are not new issues for the union. Many of our peer companies are already there. So we are standing strong on our position of cost restructure in this business. The negotiations are continuing, albeit slow, and the process will take as long as it takes for us. So at this point, that is what I will report on the union negotiation.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Following up on the pension situation, have you had a chance to run the numbers on the new highway bill and the new discount rates and any impact they may have on your near-term pension contributions?

And related to that, you have talked about strong cash flow generation this quarter. Your leverage is in the low ones. How are you thinking about target leverage here, about dividend increases for Verizon Corporation and potential buybacks down the road? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the pension plan, we have looked at the bill preliminarily, but this is a very complex thing. I will tell you that at the beginning of this year, we said we would have to contribute $1.3 billion into the plan. We have $400 million left to contribute for the remaining piece of this year.

But I think there is other things that have to go into consideration here, other than just the timing benefit of this bill. First, you have to look at the borrowing rates. Second, you have to look at tax rate restructures and what the current rate is versus what future rates may be. And then you have to look at the overall pension strategy that we have related to our pension plan.

So at this point, I am not prepared to speak to whether we will adopt the funding plan or not adopt it. What I will tell you is it is not material to the cash flow, either this year or into the next three years. And again, it is just a timing issue. So I will have more to report on that as we complete our analysis and come into 2013.

As far as cash flow goes, we had an unbelievable quarter in cash flow from operation generation. Our continued focus in on investment and making the right investments to return additional investment on that and get greater returns, both in the Wireline and Wireless business, we've -- as I said, we really have curtailed the spending on our EVDO networks, which is generating more cash flow in the Wireless business.

But again, without really going into a lot of detail here, the dividend policy is extremely important. It is a Board decision, but it is very, very important to Lowell and I, and we will continue to recommend to the Board what we think is appropriate.

And from a share buyback, as I said before, I don't think we are in a position to start buying back shares. It is always a timing issue for companies to when the best time to do that is, and at this point, we probably won't be in a position to do anything like that until late '13 or early '14.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: You mentioned that some customers have been moving over to the new price plans. I wonder if you can give us an idea whether we should be looking for some ARPU headwind in the third quarter versus the rapid rate you have been growing before it starts to sort of be accretive maybe in next year. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: It is very preliminary. We just launched this on June 28, so we just started in on this. I think some of the positive factors that we are seeing is that obviously your early adopters are always your optimizers. But to be honest, based on where we are at right now, we are actually tracking ahead of where we thought we would be, and we don't see any ARPU impact in the third quarter or fourth quarter. I think our trend will continue that we have established here in the first and second quarter.

And the benefit, though, that we do see is that we are seeing some 3G Unlimited customers move into our 4G shared data plan product, and that is excellent for us from a cash flow position on capital efficiency and cost reduction metrics. So there is some interesting things there.

And then again, the other thing on ARPU here is as Internet device ARPU continues to improve, that gives us better opportunity to accelerate our overall ARPU growth.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I'm wondering if you can give us some context of where you think sort of longer term over the next three or four years CapEx to revenues trends in Wireless.

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think that without giving a lot of guidance here beyond this year, which we said our overall capital plan will be flat to down from where we were last year, obviously, you can see that Wireless is utilizing capital extremely efficiently; down, I think now, almost for the year about $1.3 billion year-over-year. Our overall CapEx to revenue ratio in the first half of 2011 was 16.4%, and that is down to 13.1%. And as I said before, we are committed to continue to improve on that metric this year and continuing to '13 and '14, and I think we will leave it at that.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a quick side note. If you could just give us an update on the Wireless net debt at the end of the quarter. And then secondly, if you can go into a little bit more depth on what is happening in the enterprise business. Maybe you could help us size Europe or International for you versus US, and give us a sense of what Strategic Services would be growing at if you didn't have the European issues, if CPE influenced that, et cetera. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: For the end of this quarter, gross debt on Wireless's books is at $10.9 billion. On July 1, we actually paid down another piece of that debt of $800 million. The cash right now is $8.4 billion, so net debt at the end of this quarter was $2.4 billion.

On the Enterprise business, just to kind of set some of this up, as I said last quarter, our International revenue is about $400 million a quarter. We were growing close to 15% to 17% on a year-over-year basis, both within EMEA and in Asia. Last quarter, we said that we saw the first time that it actually went flat on a year-over-year basis, and this quarter we actually saw a decline on a year-over-year basis.

Strategic Services is about 75% of our sales in International, which is very different than it is here in the United States. So with the FX impact and the impact that Europe is having on that Strategic revenue stream, that is having an overall impact on the overall Strategic revenue growth.

I think the important thing here is the way we move forward is that we are really building our business around platforms. And if you look at what we've done, we are rated number one in the world on security. We have built our data center platform around our Terremark acquisition. And now we are going to build our machine-to-machine and applications platform around the Hughes Telematics. And I think that brings a different paradigm to us going forward.

So I am very optimistic on the Enterprise business. We are showing still some growth in Strategic Services, and I think if we didn't have the headwinds and some of these other economic pressures, I believe we are a double-digit strategic growth company. There should be no reason why we can't get back to those numbers that we showed in the past two years.

So I think this is a temporary thing, but given where we are with Europe, this could be another two to three quarters out, mid-'13, before we start to turn the corner here. But we are positioning ourselves and I think we are making all the right decisions that when we do turn the corner and get some economic relief, that we will show a very good portfolio here.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Fran, just a quick housekeeping item. I think this quarter you said that Wireline margins in the second half would be higher than the first half. Is that the same thing as what you said last quarter, that Wireline margins would be up year-over-year -- just to clarify?

And then the upgrade rate fell from 8% in 1Q to 7% in 2Q, and obviously, that is a big swing factor for margins, almost 200 basis points. As you think for the rest of the year and maybe as a run rate as a function of the actions you've taken for upgrades, how do you think about that 7% upgrade rate as a baseline as a driver of margins through the rest of the year and maybe just generally going forward? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the Wireline margins, look, we are very, very solid on improving our Wireline margin here in the second half versus the first half. I think given some of the cost structure issues that we have, especially around the contract, we think that we can still improve our margins. If we can get to a better end here with the contract, then I think that we can actually improve our margins on a year-over-year basis. But that will come down to a timing issue.

I do think, though, that when we focus in on the consumer side of the house, as I said, I am very confident that we can double our revenue growth here. We are very focused in on the profitability of FiOS. The profitability increase in Wireline this quarter was really, really centered around the FiOS, really, progress that we made on a quarter-to-quarter basis.

So I think we have a lot of good things here, and we'll just have to play this out. But very, very confident that we will improve our Wireline margins here.

On the upgrade side of the house, obviously, this is timing. A lot of things go into play here. We've made a lot of moves in the last year and a half around restructuring our upgrade policies. As you know, we launched our $30 upgrade fee. Obviously, this all has an impact on the level of upgrades. And then of course, there is always that rumor mill out there with a new phone coming out in the fourth quarter, and so people may be waiting.

But, look, we manage this on a quarter-to-quarter basis. I think the way I look at this, though, going into the back half of this year on the upgrades is that we will manage this business on a profit and on a growth trajectory. And if you think about what Wireless has done when we get to the fourth quarter, we will have taken $5 billion out of our cost structure in the last three years, which is why we can generate margins of 49%, which beat our all-time high from last year. So I think that Wireless has a very good track record and history to deliver both on profitability and growth.

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Fran, maybe just a little bit deeper dive on that thought process. Obviously, with the new policies in place and relatively lower upgrades, we might not see the same pattern we saw last year. And last year, we all remember that people were waiting for the iPhone in Q4, so Q3 margins were super high. Should we not expect that same dynamic given the changes in policies?

Secondly, on the FiOS side, when you talk about profitability, is this on a per-subscriber basis, or just slowing down overall gross adds? And should we not be making a margin sacrifice to take share here? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So just a couple things on the margin side of the house. I think, again, I will just repeat what I said, is we will manage this business both on a growth and profitability perspective for Wireless, and I think we have proven that. Obviously, the fourth quarter is always a seasonable volume quarter for the industry. And I expect that to happen again with the holiday season that is coming up. So it will really factor in on the volumes, what new devices, and I'm sure we are going to have plenty of new devices that come out between now and the holiday season. And if you look at -- on the device side of the house, we just launched the Samsung Galaxy III on our 4G LTE network. And it proves the point that when we launch a very technical phone that's great in appearance and viability that people accept that phone, and that phone is selling extremely well.

So all these factors come into play, but I think that we are very, very confident that what we laid out in January of 2011, regardless of what phones come, what phones don't come and what kind of season it will be, we will hit our financial objectives.

On the FiOS side of the house, as I said, we did have some seasonality pressure here. But, look, we have to balance the perspective almost -- if you look at our Wireless portfolio, we have to balance the Consumer Wireline portfolio in the same fashion. We have to balance growth with revenue acceleration and improving profitability. And that is what we are set out to do and we will make the decisions and the right ones in order to achieve all three of those metrics.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Just for our own understanding, you mentioned that the distribution would not be on the agenda at the next Verizon Wireless Board meeting. It occurred to me I have no idea how often the Board meets. Is it quarterly or semiannual?

And then just to the business, you talked about the prep work you are doing on the 700-megahertz license sale. Assuming you get a favorable resolution with the regulators on the contingent transactions, how quickly do you think you can move ahead with it? Do you have a sense of urgency or is it just one of those things that can take a while?

FRAN SHAMMO: On the Vodafone dividend, the Board meets on a quarterly basis. And at each -- the partnership agreement specifically states that on an annual basis, the dividend will be reviewed at the end of the year. So that is really all there is to say on that.

On the 700 A and B megahertz sale, as you know, we've already hired a third party. We are ready to go as soon as we get approval on the SpectrumCo deal. So this is going to be an immediate thing, not something that is going to take a while. So we are really set up to go, and it will be as fast as we can get the auction done, and make sure that we get a price that we believe is fair, and then we will sell the spectrum. So that is the timeline.

BRETT FELDMAN: Great. Thanks for that.

JOHN DOHERTY: I continue to get updates on the IR website-related issue. We continue to work it. We should have all documents available very shortly for those that couldn't get them. Brad, right now, it looks like we have time for two more questions. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Jefferies.

THOMAS SEITZ, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Fran, you mentioned that you were accelerating a bit the copper shutdown. In the past, you have mentioned that a gating factor was regulatory approval to shutting down the copper plant for those that wanted circuit-switched lines. I'm wondering if there has been any sort of change in the local regulatory environment that allows you to accelerate that.

And then secondly, I think in the past you have mentioned the shutdowns would be in the hundreds of thousands. Is that materially going up? And is that a thing where you would sacrifice a bit of margin and maybe spend a bit more CapEx to accelerate this process?

FRAN SHAMMO: On the copper shutdown piece, over the past few years, we have gotten a lot of regulatory relief in a lot of states on copper being the provider of last resort and those types of things. As we go here and through our product rationalization, we are moving as quickly as we possibly can in shutting down that copper plant. And obviously, we did that in Dallas a year ago and we currently have one running in Florida that we are shutting down the switch. So we continue down that path and we are doing that as quickly as possible.

And as I said, from a FiOS-to-copper migration -- or copper-to-FiOS migration, we nearly doubled the amount of migrations that we did. And so we are being as aggressive as we possibly can in these areas. So from that perspective, I think we are right on track.

THOMAS SEITZ: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Kevin Smithen, Macquarie.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Your investment in Italy was, I think you said, a $0.02 drag on EPS this quarter. How should we think about the impact over the next few quarters? And could you talk about the strategic importance of your Italian asset and if it is going to be a drag, why not try to dispose it?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think that given the pressures that we are seeing in Europe, it is not unforeseen that there would be a pressure there in the OMNITEL market of Italy. All we are saying is that created a $0.02 pressure on a year-over-year basis.

Strategically, I'm not going to discuss whether we are going to stay a partner or not a partner. But right now, it is a strategic asset for us to be a partner in.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Do you think that $0.02 drag will continue over the next few quarters, will it get worse? How should we model it?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think it will be pretty consistent.

KEVIN SMITHEN: Okay.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Kevin. Brad, that concludes our call. Thanks, everybody. We appreciate you dialing in this morning and, once again, we are doing everything we can to work on the IR website-related issue we had this morning.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120802e87j0002q
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,287 words
   PD
19 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations for Verizon.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am John Doherty. With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risk and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are also available on our website.

This presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

I would like to state that all quarterly growth rates disclosed in our presentation slides and during our formal remarks are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. Also, there were no special items of nonoperational nature included in our reported results for the first quarter of either this year or last.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with a few comments about our first-quarter results.

On our last earnings call in January, I talked about the confidence we have in our ability to benefit from the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas. Our focus will continue to be on execution, striving to capture incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business.

With the results of our first quarter, we continue to execute and deliver on the guidance we gave back in January of 2011 and reaffirmed earlier this year. We remain as confident in the direction of our business now as we were then and we continue to deliver strong results.

Earnings per share were $0.59, up 15.7% over first quarter last year. In Wireless, we saw a sharp acceleration of growth in retail service revenue and postpaid ARPU, driven by increased smartphone penetration and higher data device adoption, resulting in increased usage. This top-line growth, combined with effective cost management, resulted in a very strong service EBITDA margin.

Consumer retail revenue growth also continued to improve, driven by another solid quarter of FiOS performance. Our broadband net adds were the highest we have seen in nearly three years. We had an extremely strong quarter of cash generation. Free cash flow of $2.4 billion is more than 3.5 times the amount generated a year ago. The first quarter is normally the lowest quarter of the year, so we expect to see increasing free cash flow levels going forward.

Capital expenditures in the first quarter were down more than 18%, as our disciplined approach is resulting in capital efficiency gains and an improving return on investment profile for the entire business. Let's begin our review with a look at consolidated results on slide 4.

Our consolidated results show strong growth this quarter. On the top line, our growth trends continue to be very positive coming from all strategic areas, most notably wireless services. This quarter, overall revenue growth far outweighed the increase in operating expenses, resulting in double-digit operating income growth of 16.7%. Consolidated EBITDA grew to $9.2 billion and our margin expanded to 32.7%, up 130 basis points year-over-year and 210 basis points sequentially.

Let's turn now to cash flow and capital spending on slide 5. Our free cash flow this quarter increased $1.7 billion, driven by reduced levels of capital spending and an 18% increase in cash from operations. Capital expenditures totaled $3.6 billion in the quarter, a decrease of about $800 million compared to last year.

Our overall capital efficiency continues to show steady improvement. We expect our annual CapEx-to-revenue ratio to decline for the full year, based on improving revenue trends and disciplined capital spending.

In Wireless, capital spending in the quarter was $1.9 billion, which was lower by $850 million, or 31%, from the first quarter last year. You will recall that at this time last year, we were spending more to meet 3G capacity requirements in connection with our initial launch of the iPhone. As we move through the year, you will see a continued focus on migrating traffic from 3G to 4G LTE, which will drive additional improvements in our capital and operating efficiency. We will also continue to expand our 4G LTE network coverage, which is already the largest in the nation.

In Wireline, capital spending was $1.5 billion this quarter, about 5% higher than the first quarter last year. This increase is due to timing, strategic spending in enterprise and some copper-to-fiber migration within our residential customer base.

Our balance sheet remains very strong. You will recall that the $10 billion cash distribution from Verizon Wireless was paid this quarter. We used our proportionate share in part to pay down commercial paper and to redeem a maturing bond. As a result, total debt declined by $3.6 billion since the end of last year. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.3 times at the end of the quarter.

Let's now move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 6. Our Wireless business had an impressive quarter and a strong start to the year, posting accelerated growth in service revenue and our highest retail postpaid ARPU accretion in three years. Total Wireless revenues of $18.3 billion grew 8.2% and now represent about 65% of Verizon's consolidated revenue.

Retail service revenue growth accelerated to 8.9%, 110 basis point increase in growth from the fourth quarter and the highest growth rate we've seen since early 2009. We are seeing strong revenue growth from multiple postpaid sources, smartphones, tablets and Internet devices, and retail prepaid revenue grew strongly again this quarter, up 17.3%.

Total service revenue grew 7.7% this quarter, 130 basis points higher than the growth rate in the fourth quarter. Total data revenue of $6.6 billion grew 21.1%. Data now represents nearly 43% of total service revenue. Data revenue growth continues to be driven by Web and e-mail services, which increased to $4.3 billion in the quarter, up nearly 36%.

Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on slide 7. We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market, driven by sustained demand for our 3G and 4G LTE handsets, tablets and Internet devices, with the unmatched service quality of the nation's largest and most reliable wireless network. We have an industry-leading 93 million retail connections, 88 million postpaid, and 5 million prepaid. During the quarter, we added 734,000 new retail net connections, 501,000 postpaid and 233,000 prepaid.

Before we discuss postpaid in more detail, I would point out that within the prepaid net adds, 138,000 were tablets. About 60% of the prepaid tablets this quarter were 4G LTE.

Within the retail postpaid category, gross additions were just over 3 million, down about 12% from a year ago. We believe this decline is both seasonal and a function of the timing of the new device launches last year. Our porting ratios with all carriers are favorable and our postpaid churn metrics remain excellent. Although the first to report, we are confident that our 501,000 postpaid net adds is a strong result.

Postpaid device sales, both gross add and upgrades, totaled about 10 million this quarter, with 8% of our postpaid base upgrading devices. In addition to smartphones, we are also having great success in the Internet device category, which includes tablets. This quarter, we sold 765,000 4G LTE Internet devices, which is more than last quarter. We are the market leader in this space, as mobile hotspots or Jetpacks, USB modems and tablets represent 8% of our retail postpaid connections. I would also point out that 62% of our active tablet base is postpaid.

Next, let's turn to slide 8 and take a look at our smartphone and retail postpaid ARPU metrics. We had another strong quarter of smartphone sales, increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 47%. 72% of all retail postpaid phone sold this quarter were smartphones. We sold 3.2 million apple iPhones and sold 2.1 million 4G LTE smartphones this quarter. We sold 500,000 or 30% more 4G LTE smartphones this quarter than we did in the fourth quarter.

Consistent with prior quarters, about 20% of our smartphone sales are gross adds or new to Verizon, and the rest are upgrades from our existing customer base. Within these upgrades, 42% are customers buying a smartphone for the first time, representing incremental recurring data revenue. This is a significant point of differentiation and a strength for us.

Retail postpaid ARPU was $55.43 this quarter, up 3.6%. This is a big acceleration in accretion over what we experienced in 2011. Growth in retail postpaid phone ARPU accelerated to 4.9% this quarter and now exceeds $57.

Postpaid Internet device ARPU was about $48 this quarter, a decline of 8.7% from last year, but an improvement from an 11% year-over-year decline last quarter. Although postpaid ARPU for Internet devices is less than for phones, we are seeing double-digit year-over-year revenue growth, driven by increased unit sales. We already have a majority share in this important category, and we continue to expand the market for devices which enable higher usage. We also expect more network efficiency as an increasing percentage of data traffic moves to our 4G LTE network.

Let's turn to slide 9, as I would like to spend a few more minutes talking about the strength of our 4G LTE leadership. We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE, which is now available in 230 markets and more than 200 million POPs covering over two thirds of the country. Throughout the year, we will continue expanding our 4G LTE network, with a goal of having a nationwide footprint similar to our 3G network by mid-2013.

We are seeing increasing customer awareness of the capabilities of 4G LTE and a growing recognition of the superior performance of smartphones, tablets and Internet devices on the Verizon 4G LTE network. Third-party comparisons of our 4G LTE network performance compared with others generally ranks us highest in terms of consistency of access, performance and speed, with better average download speeds and significantly higher average upload speeds.

In addition to our network deployment and coverage advantage, sales of 4G LTE products are clearly gaining momentum. In the first quarter, we sold 2.9 million postpaid smartphones and Internet devices, a 22% increase over the fourth quarter. The vast majority of devices we have for sale are 4G LTE. We now have a total of 8 million 4G LTE customer connections, representing 9% of our postpaid base. Of note, about two thirds of these are smartphones.

We remain very pleased by our 4G LTE progress. The Verizon 4G LTE network has become the destination of choice for consumer and enterprise customers, which is a very positive indicator for us looking forward.

Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on slide 10. In the first quarter, we generated $7.1 billion of EBITDA, which is an increase of 14.2%, and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 410 basis points sequentially to 46.3%. Our margin performance is once again a testament to our ability to execute very well on our strategy of balancing growth and profitability. The combination of accelerating service revenue and ARPU growth, an intense focus on cost controls and consistently excellent churn metrics are contributing to our industry-leading margin performance.

Going forward, we will continue to look at opportunities to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies and commissions. We have identified $2 billion of cost-saving opportunities for this year and we are on track to capture these savings. We also announced a $30 upgrade fee, which will go into effect next week.

Let's move to our Wireline segment next on slide 11. Total Wireline revenue declined $202 million or 2% in the first quarter. About 60% of this decline is a result of targeted product rationalization actions we have taken to improve the quality of our revenue mix.

Within wholesale, I'm referring to our continued exit from unprofitable international wholesale routes and contracts. In enterprise, it is our deemphasis on selling of drop-ship hardware or CPE. In the Other revenue line item, the majority of the $82 million decline this quarter was from nonstrategic products, which include the former MCI mass markets business, long distance, local wholesale and calling cards, public pay phones and directory assistance. We are exiting the calling card and public pay phone businesses entirely.

While the Wireline revenue decline was accentuated by these targeted actions this quarter, growth in the strategic areas continues to mitigate the more secular and cyclical declines in other parts of the business.

As we have stated, we are taking a hard look at all of our product lines and rationalizing those that are not meeting our strategic and financial requirements. For example, going forward, we will no longer be selling high-speed Internet or DSL over copper in areas where FiOS is available.

From a profitability perspective, first-quarter EBITDA declined by $148 million year-over-year, with 100 basis point decline in the EBITDA margin to 22.6%. The decline is due to several factors. Revenue declines in less strategic products and first-quarter cost pressures, like higher OPEB accruals, increased active benefit costs and escalators in certain content contracts. We have targeted price actions planned to help offset certain cost increases, which will contribute to our overall profitability goals this year. I remain confident that we will achieve EBITDA margin improvement for the full year, and we continue to be very focused on improving the long-term profitability of the Wireline business.

Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance, starting with mass markets on slide 12. As a result of the scale of FiOS and increased penetration, consumer ARPU has continued to steadily increase and is now over $97, up 8%. In addition, our residential connections trends continue to improve. We lost 205,000 retail residential connections in the quarter, representing a 6.8% decline year-over-year, compared with a loss of 289,000 or 8.6% at this time last year.

In the first quarter, we delivered strong broadband growth, gaining a total of 104,000 net subscribers. With 193,000 FiOS Internet additions, we passed the 5 million FiOS subscriber mark and increased our penetration to 36.4%. More than half our FiOS customers already use 20 megabit speed or higher, and with more devices like tablets, game consoles and smart TVs connecting to the Internet at home, demand for higher broadband speeds is on the rise. Later this year, we plan to introduce a series of higher-speed packages that will further differentiate FiOS as the nation's fastest Internet service and allow us to continue to monetize our investment in the FiOS platform.

In FiOS video, we added 180,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.4 million and increasing our penetration to 32.3%. Within our FiOS subscriber base, about 68% are triple play, and our FiOS ARPU now stands at more than $148 per month. Our focus continues to be on increasing FiOS penetration, realizing additional operating and capital efficiencies and expanding margins.

Let's move next to our business markets, starting with global enterprise. Strategic Services continue to drive the overall positive growth in global enterprise revenue. We continue to post double-digit growth in application services like managed network, data center, security, cloud and IT infrastructure. Within the IP layer, private IP and ethernet services are contributing to the growth.

In the first quarter, these services totaled $2 billion, up 11.6%, representing just over half of global enterprise revenue. As we have seen for the last several quarters, the growth in Strategic Services did outpace the decline in core enterprise services, but not to the same degree.

As you might expect, we are experiencing some short-term revenue pressure from Europe and foreign currency. In addition, our deemphasis on sale of hardware was worth about $43 million on a year-over-year basis. Growth in services revenue was 2.3%.

Looking ahead, we do expect our enterprise business to contribute more to the overall Wireline revenue growth and profitability.

Our strategic repositioning of Verizon Enterprise Solutions has better aligned our strengths in high-growth markets like cloud computing, machine-to-machine and advanced communications. Our acquisitions of best-in-class assets like Cybertrust, Terremark and CloudSwitch, combined with our industry-leading 4G LTE and global IP networks, gives us a unique platform of assets to provide comprehensive, integrated solutions to enterprise organizations.

In global wholesale, revenues in the first quarter declined $181 million or 8.9%, due primarily to declines in voice and local services. As I said, we continue to take targeted actions to exit unprofitable routes and contracts, to improve the quality of our revenue mix during this period of secular decline and lower volumes. Partly offsetting these declines were continued growth in certain data services, most notably fiber-based ethernet.

Let's move now to our summary slide. Overall, we had a solid start to the year, and we remain confident in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas. We are on track with our plans, and we expect to continue to deliver strong results going forward.

Our focus will continue to be on execution, striving to capture incremental revenue and driving operating efficiencies throughout the business. Our success in stimulating top-line growth and capturing cost savings will enable us to mitigate certain secular declines and cost pressures.

In terms of recent news, yesterday, we announced plans to conduct an open sale process for all of our 700 megahertz A and B spectrum licenses in order to rationalize our spectrum holdings. We acquired these licenses as part of the FCC Auction 73 in 2008. The sale of these licenses is contingent upon the close of the purchase of the AWS licenses from SpectrumCo, Cox and Leap Wireless. These transactions are at varying stages of review by the FCC and the Department of Justice and are expected to close by midsummer.

In closing, I would reemphasize that we are well-positioned to capitalize on the investments we've made, further improving investment returns and creating significant shareholder value in the years to come.

With that, I will now turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for questions, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Fran, couple questions. First on Wireless ARPU. Very healthy uptick in the retail postpaid growth rate. Can you help us think through prospects for further improvement in the rate of growth from here?

And then second question, just on Wireline margins. I think the reset in the first quarter was a bit larger than most of us had initially expected sort of going into the process. You talked about confidence in improvement from here. Just wondering how should we think about the pacing of this through the year? Would you expect it to be fairly linear and show up in the second-quarter results or is this more back-end loaded and maybe contingent on a union contract? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: So let's start -- these are two, actually, big questions that probably will result in larger answers than you would expect. But on Wireless ARPU, let's start out with the fact that I think as we started out in 2011, we said that we had a path to accelerate the growth of our revenue. We came out of the fourth quarter; I reiterated my confidence on that projection. And as I sit here today, and I will continue to reiterate that we are confident we will continue to accelerate our growth in this category.

And it is going to come from many, many different areas. So you have to keep in mind, number one, our smartphone penetration is at 47%, which means that there are 53% of our phone customers that are still on a basic phone. So we still have a lot of roadway here from a basic to smart upgrade. And as you know, 42% of our customers this quarter went from a basic phone into a smartphone category. So that is accelerating the growth.

In addition, as you heard on the script, our Internet device category is starting to stabilize a bit, and we expect that to continue to go throughout the quarter on an ARPU basis. As last year we reset prices, we expanded the category, so the growth of that category is expanding for us. But we knew we had some short-term ARPU pressure by the price resets that we launched into the marketplace. But that set us up for our 4G LTE launches, and as you saw, we had a stellar performance on the number of devices that we moved on our 4G network this quarter.

So that's a couple things. I probably could go into a lot more detail around our data-sharing plans, our commercial launch of Fusion, and if we want to get into more discussion on that, we can. But we are very, very confident that we are on a path to continue to accelerate the growth of our ARPU.

On Wireline margins, just a couple things here to talk to. Number one, we did have the FiOS-to-copper migration, which impacted our short-term results. But we've talked that this is a strategy that we are deploying. It is better for us long-term to get most of these customers off of our copper network to our FiOS network, as you saw that we are -- stopped selling our naked DSL in FiOS-covered area. And we started to convert a number of customers in this quarter over to our FiOS network from a voice perspective.

Now, a couple things here that this will launch. Number one, we will see a long-term benefit in our repairs and maintenance decrease over time. We will also get the upsell capability to start selling these voice customers on better speeds of FiOS and better experience, and also then into the linear TV product that we have to offer. And what we are seeing is the minimal number that we converted last year during our trials, we are starting to see a 30% sale upgrade on those customers. But it does take us three to six months to convince those customers to upgrade. So this is a longer-term type strategy.

In addition, going into the future, you are going to see -- you may have already saw -- that we are starting to do some price-ups in strategic areas. We've already started that in April, but over the next two quarters, we're going to have several price-ups in our FiOS packages. In addition, we are going to rebundle certain of our packages to better bundle our content in order to make it more profitable, based on the tier that you pick for us.

The other thing is that there is other revenue streams coming down the pike, like home monitoring control, that will contribute to the overall ARPU of our FiOS platform.

We also have a very disciplined cost structure in place, as you see that we declined our SG&A expense year-over-year. In April, we also had another ISP to our represented employees, which we had a number of people take. So we've already taken off 1100 people from payroll since the quarter has closed.

We are taking other measures around the consolidation of our back-office operations, as I've talked to in the past. You see that we are exiting some of our unprofitable or low-margin businesses, which will help us in the future. And then of course the union contract, and we can talk more about that. But obviously, the business needs a cost restructure, and that is what that is about.

So I will stop there. I'm sure we will have some more questions here.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That's really helpful, Fran. Is there any way you could quantify the copper-to-fiber sort of incremental cost in the quarter?

FRAN SHAMMO: At this point, we are not going to disclose that. It did result in some incremental capital for pre-positioning, and then it did result in some expense for us. But actually, for this quarter, it was not a big component of the quarter.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, guys. First -- it's two quick ones. First on -- I guess a follow-up on the Wireless side. You saw 260 basis points of annual margin improvement in the first quarter, and now talking about accelerating ARPU growth. And like you said, that $30 that gets -- that gets -- that's started -- gets tacked on to upgrades in May. Is that a decent number? Or I guess why shouldn't we expect that kind of year-over-year increase in margins or maybe even better as the $30 starts to flow through?

And then second of all, maybe on use of cash, could you remind us what your target leverage ratio is? We are at, I guess, 1.3 now, given the debt paydown. As we look out to next year and we are modeling another dividend, obviously you don't want to chat -- you don't want to sort of look that far out. But I'm just trying to get a sense for sort of use of cash as we go forward. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the Wireless margin expansion, I guess there is a couple things here that are important. Number one is, as you know, we have been on a two-year track here to reduce expenses in our Wireless unit, and over the last two years we've taken out about $3 billion of expense. This year, we have another target of $2 billion.

So I know that everyone is focused in on the subsidy model, but as I've said, that is just one line item in our P&L, and it takes managing the entire business to be an efficient business. And I think that Wireless has done a really excellent job on reduction of cost and creating more efficiency within the model. And that is what is driving the margins, besides the ARPU increases that you see in the revenue growth.

And as we stated last year, coming into this year, that our goal was to get back to our third-quarter level of last year's margin, and then continue to grow from there. And we are putting in all those actions to do that.

As far as the $30 upgrade fee, I will remind everyone that we started back in 2010 on a strategy to start to take out some of the lucrative promotions we had around upgrades by deleting the New Every Two program, limiting the amount of early upgrades that we allowed. And now the implementation of the $30 upgrade fee, which we were the last carrier to implement. But it is important for the overall profitability of the business and the experience that we expect to have within this business.

So I think there is a number of actions that Wireless is taking to continue to focus on the ARPU expansion and then the margin expansion, because we like to do both at Verizon; we grow and we expand our margins.

And then as far as the use of cash here, on a targeted net debt to EBITDA, it is more important that I think we are comfortable with our net debt to EBITDA ratio. This will improve over time, as we continue to delever in certain areas where we think it is reasonable to do. You saw us take the proceeds of the Wireless dividend this quarter to pay down some debt that was maturing that was high-interest debt that quite honestly didn't make sense at this time to refinance in any perspective.

So we will continue to manage our cash -- important. Our dividend policy is extremely important to us. And Lowell and I have said very strongly that we will continue the policy of our dividend. So I will stop there and we will go on to the next question.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. You talked about the Wireline margins, and I think there was a question about the union contract. Could you give us an update on where you stand and the ability to sort of move forward and get progress, some agreement over the coming quarters?

And then on Wireless adds, you had, I'm sure, the best in the industry. But overall, we expect the industry to be flat to down on postpaid. Do you sense this is just a lull post the iPhone 4S launch last quarter? Did you see sort of a pickup sequentially through the quarter? Any thoughts about how the rest of the quarters pan out in terms of Wireless versus Q1? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First, let's talk about the union contract. Look, I think it is safe to say that as we entered into this negotiation, we knew that this was going to be an extremely difficult negotiation. We have said very strongly that we need cost structure within the Wireline business. Obviously, if you look at the profitability of this business over the last five years, it has decreased, and this cost structure is not palatable going forward. So we need some concessions. We need healthcare contributions. We need some pension revisions.

And look, we are not asking for things that have not already been given to other companies. These are not new issues. They've already been given to some of our peer companies. So we are standing strong. We need this cost restructure in order to build on the profitability of our Wireline unit.

The other thing is, look, we've invested over $24 billion into this unit on the FiOS platform. And in order for us to be competitive with our competitors of cable, who don't have these very lucrative benefits and average salaries of $90,000, with an incremental $50,000 of healthcare and pension on top of that, we need some cost restructure here.

So look, this is a hard negotiation. It took one of our peer companies over 500 days to get to where they were three years ago in some of these breakthrough issues. So we continue to negotiate, we continue to put proposals on, and we'll see where we go. But we knew this was going to be a long haul, and with my comment of improvement of Wireline margins, it is all built into those comments.

On the Wireless adds, I think we are extremely pleased with the growth of our Wireless business on an add basis. If you look at, though, there is going to be other categories that drive the growth of Wireless in the future. As I said, we will be launching our data share plan in midsummer this year. We believe that plan, the way we have it designed, will enable our customers to easily connect other devices to that plan.

And I think that as we do more connections -- you notice that we did not disclose total connections. As I've said, that machine-to-machine is becoming a more complicated device and connection of the way the plans are built. So it is not important anymore of total connections. It is more important of our revenue increase based on the customers that we are growing.

I think that if you look at our Fusion product that we just launched in certain states, our trials are going very well. The customers' experience is extremely strong. We have a target of 10 million homes that we are going to launch to in May of this year, when we commercially launch. And that will build to -- as we build out the 4G LTE footprint -- to a target of 34 million homes. We believe that is a growth engine for us in the future.

Then we have tablets. We have prepaid. This is the second quarter in a row where we have grown our prepaid base with our Unleashed product. And in the next week or so, you are going to see us add in a smartphone to our prepaid product on an $80 price point with 1 gigabit of data.

So there is a number of actions that we are taking. If you think about the third ecosystem and then also the cable partnership, that we also just launched some new markets with Time Warner Cable this past quarter, Kansas, Ohio and Carolinas. So we continue to expand. I think we have a great path to increased adds on a full-year basis here, and we are on that track.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMC.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two questions. We'll see how I do. So first on prepaid, tablets were up a little bit. And I wonder if you saw a little bit of a drag even though from the timing of the iPad launch and if things have gotten a little better since that has come through.

And then second, we've been getting a lot of questions about your ability to control iPhone subsidies. And maybe you can help us out a little bit. It seems like the way you control costs on this is raising upgrade rates and sort of pushing back on timing, rather than cutting down on the actual subsidy of that device. Is there a level of control you have on those subsidies over time, or are you pretty much stuck with the way things are priced today? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First, on prepaid tablets, it is a great point. We did see a slowdown in the beginning of the quarter on the anticipation of the iPad 4G LTE device coming to market. And as you know, that was only about 2, 2.5 weeks of product in the marketplace. And we saw significant volume previous to any volume that we had previously seen on tablet sales.

So I think that going into the second quarter, that volume will continue. So, yes, there was a little bit of a downward demand in the beginning, waiting for the new iPad to come out. So again, I think we are off to a good start. We sold 390,000 tablets in the quarter. And, as we said, bulk of them were -- 60% were increase in tablet sales year-over-year. So I think going into the future, tablets will continue to be a very strategic segment of our business.

On the Apple iPhone, look, I think as I've said before, we look at every individual handset. We have a broad portfolio. We manage it handset by handset and manage our subsidy. And again, that is just one aspect of our P&L. And this is just a nature of this business that has grown from the beginning of the industry that said we subsidize handsets.

I do think, though, it is important that there is a third ecosystem that is brought into the mix here, and we are fully supportive of that with Microsoft. And as we said that we created the Android platform from beginning, and it is an incredible platform today that we helped create, and we are looking to do the same thing with a third ecosystem. So that is how I think that we plan to go into the future here.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks for taking the questions. Real quick, could we just get an update on the net debt at the Wireless level? And then taking a step back, can we get an update on what is happening in enterprise with the VDMS strategy that you are trying to roll out? And then anything else in terms of demand that you are seeing on video and how that is helping your enterprise business. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the net debt for Wireless, we had gross debt of $10.9 billion, cash on hand of $4.4 billion, so net debt at $6.4 billion.

On the enterprise VES, I think we are making great progress with the new organization and the umbrella organization that John Stratton has over both Wireless and Wireline from an enterprise perspective. We have gone very deep into verticals. We see that there is -- and if you paid attention to Lowell's remarks here recently at the Healthcare Forum, we see a lot of healthcare opportunity and are engaging in a lot of partnerships to extend what we think is a really good product set on the reduction of overall healthcare costs in the nation, but also to deliver some really neat innovation-type ideas into the future of healthcare and how we manage that from an enterprise perspective.

As far as overall growth of the segment, we did see a decline this quarter in Europe. It was not expected, just to give you some baseline here. Last year, our European market was growing on average about 13%. It contributes about $450 million of revenue per quarter. We saw that drop to flat this quarter. So there was a drastic pullback in our European market.

We don't believe that is long-term. We think that is more of a short-term issue. We already started to see some increased bookings here exiting the first quarter, but that probably won't turn into revenue for three to six months. As you know, this industry is a longer-term type recording from the time that you get an order. But I think this is a short-term issue for us, but it did put an impact on our overall growth.

Now having said that, our cloud services and our strategic nature of our security, those portfolios are growing well. Our overall cloud portfolio grew by 17% quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year. So I think we are making progress in the areas that we want to make progress in. But again, the portfolio rationalization is also creating a drag here. And as we continue down that path, we will lose some revenue in those less profitable platforms that we really want to discontinue investing in. But it is for the betterment of us and betterment of our customers to move them to a more highly innovative platform.

And then the last thing, of course, is the development and launch that we did last June of our VDMS platform. And we will be launching our next phase of that come this June, and we expect to see some growth revenue acceleration from that platform as we go here.

So there is a number of things that John is implementing that I think will contribute, as I said in my script here -- contribute to the future growth of the overall Wireline revenue top line and margin growth.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Fran, if I could just follow up on one more thing. What pushed Verizon Wireless over the edge to put the spectrum up for sale? Could you just address a little bit of the background to yesterday's announcement? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So thanks for that question, and I think this is an example where people write articles where they don't have facts, so let's talk about the facts. Number one, we, as I think Verizon Wireless has shown over time that they are very, very good stewards of spectrum and efficient spectrum. And we are responsible and efficient owners of the spectrum, and as a company policy we would not hoard the spectrum.

Now when we bought this back in 2008, obviously we did not have the foresight to know that we would have an opportunity to acquire AWS spectrum from the cable companies. And if you look at our spectrum holdings, we purchased a 700 MHz, which is an extremely efficient, and this is where we built our LTE platform on.

And then we had the AWS spectrum in the East which was very efficient from an overbuild perspective on capacity of our LTE platform. And now with the deal that we have with SpectrumCo, we believe that is the most efficient for us to utilize and build out our LTE platform.

So hence, the lower 700 megahertz A and B does not fit as nicely into our spectrum holdings as it may for others. So we think it is the prudent thing to do to sell these licenses off to the rest of the industry for the benefit of their customers and to enhance their ability to build out 4G LTE.

So I think we would say that we are being good stewards. This has nothing to do -- we did not just wake up yesterday and decide we were going to sell spectrum because we ran into a roadblock at the FCC. That is continuing. We have facts that say the 180-day-clock is going and that we are still very confident that we will get approval for the AWS acquisition from SpectrumCo.

But just two other points I want to make here. Number one, this is contingent on us getting the AWS spectrum approved, because obviously, we would need this spectrum if that is not approved. And again, we think it is the right thing for the FCC and maybe a standard for them to use in the future of how spectrum should be allocated out and sold and efficient ownership and protocols.

The other thing is I think there were some articles written that this is going to be a fire sale. This is nothing near a fire sale. We bought this spectrum back in 2008, we've had carrying costs and we will be prudent to our shareholders to make sure we get a return on our investments. We know what the value of this spectrum is in the free market, and obviously, we are going through an auction to allow many different parties to participate through a third-party auctioneer.

And look, if we don't get the price that we this is a fair price, then we won't go through with the sale, and that is at our discretion. So I think there are some important facts, and I'll stop there. Thanks.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Just maybe a couple follow-ups. First, Fran, on the AWS spectrum approval, is there a level of divestitures that the FCC could come up with that would be a dealbreaker from your perspective? Or is just getting kind of any magnitude of an AWS deal done sufficient?

And then with respect to the Wireless margin, you are targeting $2 billion of cost cuts, I guess, for the year. If you could kind of share with us where we wound up after the end of first quarter on that.

And then the last one, if I could, is just could you kind of give us an update on what, if any, results have you been able to generate from your partnership with the cable companies on the selling of a joint product that have been material to the business? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: First, on the AWS approval, I think that we are exactly where we expected to be. The conversations are going exactly the way we thought. I am not going to speculate on caps or what we would do, what we wouldn't do. And I think what I will say is, look, we are exactly where we thought we would be and we think we will close this transaction by midsummer.

On the $2 billion Wireless cost-cutting ideas, I think we have shown that we are very good executioners on the cost-cutting routines of $3 billion in the last two years. The $2 billion is a combination of a variety of things. You saw the announcement of some call-center rationalization. Obviously, part of this $2 billion is to work on the reduction of our subsidies. And you are already seeing some of these plans go into action with our upgrade fee and some other things.

So there is a wide wrath of cost-cutting initiatives that Dan Mead and his team are executing on. And right now, coming out of the first quarter, we are actually right on track where we expected to be.

And then lastly, on the cable companies, obviously, we are still in a trial mode. We are working out the kinks. We launched a couple markets here with Comcast up in Seattle and Portland. We just launched a couple new markets with Time Warner Cable. So I think it is too early to talk about this one. The agreements are still in front of the DOJ and the FCC, and we continue to cooperate with them. And we will wait until the transaction closes and get up full to speed and then we will talk about that.

DAVID BARDEN: Great, guys. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. Good morning, guys. Fran, two questions, if you don't mind. On the enterprise business, on the core business, could you just give us maybe a little color around -- it sounds like you're saying that volumes are fine, pricing is fine and you haven't really seen a pick-up in competition. But obviously, these peripheral legacy products are in decline.

I just want to make sure that is kind of what you are saying. And maybe did you see any seasonality in core enterprise? Did you see maybe lower sales in December and that has kind of picked up? I know you kind of talked about Europe a little bit, but maybe just here in the US. And then I just had a CapEx follow-up.

FRAN SHAMMO: As far as enterprise goes, look, I think the enterprise business is -- in our Strategic Services area is steady as she goes. We are growing that portfolio. And look, any time you go through a massive restructure like John has implemented at VES with going into more of a vertical type segment, you are going to have a little disruption within your front-line sales force, and I think we saw that.

But that was like a 60- to 90-day interruption, and I think we are getting back on pace, and we expect enterprise to start to get back on their feet here going into the second quarter and through the year.

And as far as the core side goes, the core is just steady as she goes. It is a declining business. People are moving away from the legacy voice and long distance and moving more into the IP technology. And this is where we have several of our customer base still on the legacy core platforms that we need to move off of so that we can stop investing in those platforms, and get them to something that is more innovative and more efficient for them as a company as well. I don't think they are surprised with the conversations that we are having.

So I think as we go here, this will be a steady course. And as we said before, our goal is to be a gross national product type growth here, GDP-plus type organization. So I think that is what we are striving for, and that is what John is striving for as well.

TIM HORAN: So it sounds like (multiple speakers). Just on enterprise, it sounds like you're really trying to accelerate the conversion over. How much longer do you think that would take?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I think this is going to be -- on some of these legacy type platforms, this could be a two-year transition.

TIM HORAN: Great. And then on CapEx, is flattish a good number for the full year versus last year? I know that would decline you as a percentage of revenue at a fairly healthy pace, given what we have seen in Wireless.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, I have said that the guidance would be -- we wouldn't give specific guidance, but flat is a good guidance.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's take two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Fran, could you just make a comment -- on the ARPU side, obviously, pretty strong performance on the wireless ARPU. But it looked like voice -- the headwind on voice sort of became less of a headwind this quarter; pretty good improvement on the rate of decline. Just what you are seeing there, whether it is people just not pricing that down anymore, or what behaviors the consumers are showing you.

And then just a couple on the house-cleaning side. On Wireless D&A, it looked like it was down sequentially. Just wondering if there was a change in assumption there. And then on the Wireline margin commentary, the better year-over-year, I'm assuming that is on a reported basis. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Mike, just a couple things here on the voice and text messaging. Our messaging revenue actually grew 4% again year-over-year, so we are not seeing what others in the international market have seen. And again, it all comes down to the way you package the bundle, and we still have a majority of our customers taking a bundled package of voice and text along with their data plan. So we are starting to see that starting to flatten out perspective.

But look, we keep our eye on this, and with 4G LTE and VoLTE coming at the end of this year into next year, there will be additional opportunities to convert more revenue from our voice products as we launch into more, if you will, IP type videoconferencing and so forth.

As far as Verizon Wireless depreciation and amortization, look, at the beginning of every year, we have a policy that we look at our asset base and reevaluate all of our estimated lives on all of our asset bases. And sometimes we make decisions to accelerate and sometimes we make decisions to re-evaluate the lives that we have on a certain asset. And we have done that this year, as we do every year, and in Verizon Wireless, there was a life extension on our entire EVDO platform.

But this is nothing unusual that we normally don't do, and so that is the answer to that one.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's take the last question, please.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question. Just to come back to the CapEx statement, in order for your CapEx to be flattish over the course of the year, it would seem like the spending would have to pick up a little bit in Wireless. First of all, is that correct conclusion? And if so, what would be behind that?

And the second question is to clarify a statement you made about margins. Fran, you mentioned getting to the third quarter of last year Wireless EBITDA margin, that was just inside 48%. Is that a point you think you can achieve once again at some quarter during the year, or is that actually a full-year target for Verizon Wireless?

FRAN SHAMMO: As far as -- these are both guidance type questions, so I'm not going to get into the specifics of them. Look, we said we will be flat at CapEx and let's leave it at that. I'm not going to get into the individual components or quarter-by-quarter.

And then on the Wireless margins, I've said that, look, our goal is to get back to our 3Q margin, and we will strive to get there.

BRETT FELDMAN: Okay, thanks for the question.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Brad. That concludes our call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conferencing Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120503e84j000xw
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,596 words
   PD
24 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations for Verizon.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am John Doherty. With me this morning is Fran Shammo.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

For the fourth quarter of 2011, we reported a loss of $0.71 per share on a GAAP basis. These results include a non-cash pension and benefits charge of $5.6 billion on a pretax basis. This mark-to-market adjustment related to our current year asset returns, discount rate, the mortality assumption changes in our pension and post-retirement plans. This adjustment is in accordance with the accounting policy we adopted a year ago which requires us to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur, and not smooth the effects over a longer period of time.

Adjusting for $1.23 per share of non-operational items, fourth-quarter EPS was $0.52, bringing our full-year 2011 adjusted EPS to $2.15. The comparable adjusted EPS in 2010 was $2.08.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, John, and good morning everyone, and happy new year. Before we get into the details, let me start with a few summary comments. We finished the year very strong, creating value for our shareholders in 2011 by generating a total return of 18.2% through a combination of stock price appreciation of 12.1% and our dividend payments. Our stock price appreciation outpaced our peers as well as the S&P, Dow Jones and broader indices.

For the fifth consecutive year, our Board of Directors approved a dividend increase, indicating their confidence in the sustainability of our business model, cash flows and our improving earnings profile into 2012 and beyond.

In 2011, we also made some smart investments for future growth and improved profitability. While very disciplined in our approach to capital spending, we continued to invest in networks and new technologies which will be the platforms for accelerated growth.

On the strategic front, we made some moves that will significantly improve our competitive position. These include the acquisitions of Terremark and CloudSwitch in the cloud computing space, several agreements to purchase additional spectrum, joint efforts around innovation with a number of partners including the cable companies, and of course, our continued leadership in the rapid development of the 4G LTE ecosystem.

We also renewed our focus on delivering solutions to customers and the markets we serve by better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business -- wireless, FiOS, strategic services, the cloud, digital media and our global high-speed IP network. Our recently-formed global Enterprise Solutions organization will strengthen our ability to provide fully-integrated customer solutions.

In addition to making these investments in our future, 2011 was a great year of solid execution. We posted record revenue growth in the fourth quarter, resulting in adjusted revenue growth of 6.2% for the full year, a significant acceleration from just below 2% growth in 2010.

In addition to our strong revenue results, our sharp focus on capturing operating efficiencies helped us to mitigate a number of cost pressures, driving an increase to consolidated EBITDA of more than $950 million. We also had a strong year in terms of cash generation with $13.5 billion in free cash flow. 2011 was an impressive year on a number of fronts, giving us tremendous confidence about our long-term growth prospects.

Now let's turn our attention to the fourth quarter, starting with a few highlights. As I just noted, we had a very strong revenue performance in fourth quarter. Our 7.7% year-over-year growth was easily our highest quarterly growth of the year, and in fact, the highest quarterly growth since the formation of Verizon 11 years ago.

In Wireless, we had our best quarter ever in terms of smartphone sales, 4G LTE device sales and customer upgrades, along with the most retail gross adds in three years. We lead the industry in retail postpaid connections, and our 1.2 million postpaid net adds this quarter demonstrates that we continue to gain market share. We are by far the market leader in 4G LTE, which is now available in 195 markets covering more than 200 million pops, with increasing customer awareness of its superior speeds, capabilities and new high-quality devices.

4G LTE is really taking hold. In addition to record device sales in the quarter, we are seeing a high level of activity at our Innovation Centers in Waltham and San Francisco. We currently offer about 20 4G LTE smartphone and data devices. And at CES, we announced two more mobile hotspots, now called Jetpacks, three smartphones, two from Motorola and one from LG, and the Samsung Galaxy Tablet. Clearly, the Verizon 4G LTE network is becoming the destination of choice for consumer and enterprise customers, which is a strong indicator for us looking forward.

In Wireline, our revenue mix continues to improve, with FiOS representing 61% of our consumer revenue and Enterprise Strategic Services making up 51% of our global enterprise revenue in the quarter. We effectively worked through the numerous challenges of the third quarter to restore Wireline segment profitability. Wireline EBITDA increased to $2.4 billion in the quarter, resulting in a 23.8% EBITDA margin, in line with where we ended the second quarter. Now that we are back on track, I am confident that we will see Wireline margin expansion in 2012. Again, a strong finish to a solid year, making us very confident about our growth opportunities in 2012 and beyond.

Let's turn to slide 5 next. Fourth-quarter consolidated revenues grew 7.7% year over year, resulting in adjusted annual growth of 6.2%, solidly within our 2011 guidance range of 4% to 8%.

Reported earnings for the fourth quarter on a GAAP basis were a net loss of $0.71 per share due to the significant non-cash charge associated with our pension and post-retirement plans. The largest component of this actuarial true-up has to do with how discount rate assumption, which was 5.75% at the beginning of the year. At the end of the year, this rate is adjusted to an estimate of the yields of high-quality long-term bonds, which was determined to be 5%.

Another part of this true-up relates to our return on pension assets. We assumed an 8% ROA at the beginning of the year, and we came in at 5% for the year. There were also adjustments required based on mortality assumption changes. Excluding non-operational items, we earned $0.52 per share in the quarter, bringing our full-year 2011 adjusted EPS result to $2.15, up 3.4% from a comparable $2.08 per share in 2010.

Coming out of the third quarter, we indicated that we were on track to meet our 2011 earnings guidance of 5% to 8% growth. Earlier this month, I indicated that a very strong December resulted in higher-than-expected Wireless device sales, which sets up well for 2012, but resulted in us falling a little short of our full-year EPS growth target by $0.02.

I would also remind you that our $2.15 adjusted result included $0.05 of negative impact, primarily from the storms in the third quarter. So from my perspective, an adjusted EPS of $2.20 is a more logical starting point for you when considering our 2012 earnings growth potential.

Let's turn next to cash flow and capital spending on slide 6. Our free cash flow in the fourth quarter and full year was once again a combination of strong cash generation and reduced levels of capital spending. Capital expenditures for the full year totaled $16.2 billion, representing a decrease of 1.3% from 2010. In addition to being lower than the prior year, the $16.2 billion was favorable to our guidance of $16.5 billion.

Our capital efficiency has improved steadily, and was below 15% for the year. With the heavy investment cycles necessary to transform our business largely behind us, we would expect our CapEx-to-revenue ratio, which is already at a historical low, to continue declining, based on disciplined capital spending and improving revenue growth trends.

In Wireless, capital spending in the fourth quarter was $1.8 billion, bringing the full year to $9 billion, an increase of 6.3%. The incremental spending in 2011 was a combination of 3G capacity requirements, driven by the Apple iPhone, and the continued rapid expansion of our 4G LTE network.

In 2012, we will continue to migrate traffic from our 3G EVDO network to 4G LTE, thereby freeing up 3G capacity and improving our capital and operating efficiencies. In addition, we will continue to expand our 4G LTE network coverage, which is already the largest in the nation, and our target is to have 4G LTE coverage similar to our 3G coverage by mid-2013.

In Wireline, capital spending was $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter, bringing the full year to $6.4 billion, a decline of more than $800 million or 12%. The decline in spending was driven by lower FiOS buildout costs, as well as efficiency gains from investing in newer technologies.

From a balance sheet perspective, we ended the year in a strong financial position. Total debt was $55.2 billion and net debt was $41.8 billion. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was about 1.2 times. As a reminder, the previously announced $10 billion Verizon Wireless cash distribution will occur next week.

Let's now move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide seven. Our Wireless business had another impressive quarter of growth, particularly with regard to retail customer activity. Total revenue grew to $18.3 billion in the fourth quarter, up 13% year-over-year. Retail service revenue, which includes both postpaid and prepaid, grew 7.8% year-over-year, which is a 90 basis point improvement in growth over the third quarter.

Total service revenue in the quarter grew 6.4% year-over-year, up from 6.1% growth in the third quarter. Within total service revenues, growth was impacted by year-over-year declines in roaming and wholesale revenue, which collectively amounted to roughly $140 million in the fourth quarter. Looking forward, we expect to see less impact on year-over-year growth rates from these factors as we move through 2012.

Total data revenue grew to $6.3 billion in the quarter, up 19.2% year-over-year. Data now represents 41.6% of total service revenue. Data revenue growth continued to be driven by web and e-mail services, which increased to $4 billion in the quarter, up more than 34% year-over-year. Messaging revenue, which makes up about 30% of total data, grew nearly 4% in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.

Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on slide eight. We ended the year with industry-leading total connections of 108.7 million, up 6.3% from 2010. We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market, with 87.4 million connections, driven by demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices.

Retail net adds of 1.5 million in the quarter were the highest we've seen in three years. Within retail, 1.2 million were postpaid and 252,000 were pre-paid. Within the postpaid net add mix, 1 million were smartphones and 400,000 were Internet data devices, the remaining being the net change in basic phones. Of particular interest, more than 700,000 of these net adds were 4G LTE smartphones or data devices.

In retail prepaid, fourth-quarter net add growth was equally distributed between tablets and phones. This quarter marks the first time in two years that prepaid phones, excluding tablets, had positive net adds. This is due to the success of our $50 monthly unlimited prepaid phone offer, which we put in place on a national basis in mid-September.

Postpaid device sales, which include both gross adds and upgrades, were significantly higher this quarter, driven by the Apple iPhone 4S as well as the increasing popularity of our 4G LTE smartphones and Internet data devices.

Retail postpaid gross adds totaled 3.6 million in the quarter, an increase of 10% sequentially and 7.6% year-over-year. The percentage of postpaid customers upgrading this quarter moved up to 10%.

The continued demand for our Wireless products is not only driving growth in connections and revenue, but also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty metrics. Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent once again, with retail postpaid churn of only 0.94%, an improvement of 7 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2010.

Now let's turn to slide 9 and a take a closer look at our smartphones and retail postpaid ARPU metrics. As I said, we had a record quarter in terms of smartphone sales, increasing the penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 44%. A year ago, smartphone penetration was 28%, so we have made very good progress in 2011. 70% of all retail postpaid phones sold this quarter were smartphones, a solid increase from 60% in each of the last two quarters.

During the quarter, we activated 4.3 million Apple iPhones and sold 1.6 million 4G LTE smartphones. In addition, we sold roughly 700,000 4G LTE Internet data devices. As I said, sales of 4G LTE products are clearly gaining momentum.

Shifting now to ARPU, retail postpaid ARPU was $54.80 this quarter, up 2.5% year-over-year. Retail postpaid phone ARPU exceeds $56, up 4% on a year-over-year basis. Postpaid Internet data devices have an ARPU of just under $49, which was down 11% from a year ago. This decline was mainly due to a strategic price change we made in the fourth quarter of 2010. We made this pricing move to expand the market, given our expectation that the superior capabilities of 4G LTE will generate more demand and increase data usage on these devices.

We did expand the market in 2011, with approximately 3.8 million unit sales, which included mobile hotspots, USB modems and tablets. We now have about 7 million subscribers with these devices, representing about 8% of our retail postpaid base.

While the unit growth of these devices is diluting our overall retail postpaid ARPU at this time, fourth-quarter revenue growth from these devices was 10% on a year-over-year basis. In addition to making a positive contribution to top-line growth, the greater efficiency of our 4G LTE network means that this data revenue is also generating higher margins and driving improved profitability.

Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on slide 10. 2011 was another strong year of industry leadership in terms of margin performance and cash generation. With the introduction of the Apple iPhone and numerous 4G LTE smartphones during the year, we indicated last January that margins would fluctuate in certain quarters depending on new device rollouts and sales. Looking back on our quarterly margin performance in 2011 shows this to be the case, with strong sales in the first and fourth quarters pressuring EBITDA. As I mentioned, the sales volumes in the fourth quarter exceeded our expectations, but obviously will create more opportunity for growth in 2012.

Our strong performance in terms of customer additions and market share gains, coupled with increased smartphone penetration, drove increases in retail service revenues and accelerating phone ARPU. In addition, our intense focus on cost efficiency is clearly helping to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies.

Our industry-leading customer retention has also helped margin performance, which is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience.

Verizon Wireless continues to be the industry leader, and with another year of impressive overall performance, we've built great momentum heading into a new year, expecting to sustain our strong growth and profitability. Let's move to our Wireline segment next on slide 11.

Total revenue in the fourth quarter was $10.1 billion, a decline of $150 million or 1.5% year-over-year. With the full year, Wireline revenue totaled $40.7 billion, down 1.3%. In the fourth quarter, consumer revenue grew 1.3% year-over-year, driven by FiOS revenue growth of 18.2%. In Global Enterprise, fourth-quarter revenue also grew 1.3%, driven once again by Strategic Services, which increased 14.7% year-over-year. As I've said, Strategic Services, which include Terremark, are a growing portion of our revenue mix, representing 51% of total enterprise revenue in the fourth quarter.

From a profitability perspective, the fourth-quarter Wireline EBITDA margin recovered nicely from the challenges of the third quarter, increasing 240 basis points sequentially to 23.8%. Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance, starting with mass markets on slide 12.

Fourth-quarter revenue from mass markets increased 0.7% on a year-over-year basis. Consumer revenue, which represents a majority of this category, grew 1.3% in the quarter. Consumer ARPU steadily increased throughout the year and is now more than $96. I would also highlight that our residential connections trends continued to improve. We lost 183,000 retail residential connections in the fourth quarter, representing a 7.3% decline, compared with a loss of 303,000, or 9%, in the fourth quarter last year.

In broadband, we added 201,000 FiOS Internet subscribers in the quarter, increasing our subscriber base to 4.8 million and penetration to 36%. By adding in our 3.9 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with a total of 8.7 million broadband connections, adding a net positive 98,000 broadband connections in the fourth quarter.

In FiOS video, we added 194,000 subscribers in the quarter, bringing our total to 4.2 million and increasing our penetration to 32%.

Within our FiOS subscriber base, about 3.5 million customers are triple play and FiOS ARPU increased in the fourth quarter to more than $148 per month. In terms of our deployment, we ended the year with 16.5 million premises passed, adding just over 900,000 in 2011. We had 13.6 million homes open for sale for Internet and 13.3 million for video.

From my perspective, 2011 was a very good year for FiOS, both operationally and financially. For the full year, FiOS revenue grew 20% to $8.3 billion. Looking ahead, our focus will once again be to increase penetration, drive market and wallet share gains, realize more efficiency from a cost perspective and expand margins.

Let's move next to our business markets, starting with Global Enterprise. Strategic Services continued to drive the year-over-year improvement in Global Enterprise revenue, led by very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network, call center, IP communications and our cloud offerings. In the fourth quarter, these services totaled $2 billion, up 14.7% year-over-year, representing just over half of Global Enterprise revenue. As we've seen for the last several quarters, the growth in Strategic Services outpaced the decline in core enterprise services. Terremark revenues were up about 10% sequentially in the fourth quarter and roughly 18% year-over-year.

Within our Global Enterprise Solutions, we are focused on shifting our product mix to higher gross service offerings and we continued to gain traction here. In less strategic areas, like core voice, data and hardware, we've continued to look for ways to improve overall margin profitability. One example is our deemphasis on sales of hardware or CPE, particularly drop-ship equipment that is not part of an overall Enterprise Solutions bundle. During 2011, hardware sales were down roughly $340 million on an annual basis. In the fourth quarter alone, hardware revenue was down $147 million, or 21.6% year-over-year.

Looking at the services revenue component of Global Enterprises reveals a more positive growth trend. In the fourth quarter, Enterprise services revenue grew 2.7% year-over-year, excluding Terremark, which was not part of our results a year ago. If Terremark was included, the rate of growth would have been higher but would not represent a true baseline.

In Global Wholesale, revenues in the fourth quarter declined 7.6% year-over-year, due primarily to declines in voice, where we continued to experience secular pressures and lower volumes, offset in part by increases in certain data services. Our deemphasis of certain nonprofitable international voice routes created downward pressure on revenue, but did contribute to improved wholesale margins.

Let's move to slide 14 for a 2011 wrap-up. We had a strong finish to a very solid year in 2011, giving us great momentum and confidence heading into the new year. Wireless, FiOS and Enterprise Strategic Services all contributed to significant improvements in adjusted revenue growth, where we moved from just under 2% in 2010 to more than 6% in 2011. These revenue improvements and our focus on capturing operating efficiencies helped us to mitigate various cost pressures throughout the business, creating solid growth in earnings and strong free cash flow, supported by our disciplined approach to capital spending.

On the strategic front, we made a number of investments that have improved our competitive position and differentiated us in the marketplace, setting the stage for future growth and improved profitability.

I believe investors recognized our progress in 2011, as our stock price appreciation and competitive dividend generated a total return to shareholders of 18.2%.

We enter 2012 with great confidence in our ability to take advantage of the market opportunities we see in our key strategic growth areas. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, you will see a renewed focus on delivering solutions to all of our customers and the markets that we serve by better leveraging our capabilities across all parts of the business.

Our Global Enterprise Solutions organization is just one example, highlighting a more integrated approach in how we develop and deliver customer solutions, including a vertical industry focus into areas like education and health care as examples. Another example is the way in which we are managing our top multinational accounts, in collaboration with Vodafone where this makes sense for both companies.

In terms of our acquisition of AWS spectrum from SpectrumCo, we are looking forward to closing the transaction after review by the Department of Justice and approval by the FCC, which we anticipate by midyear.

We are also making progress in our additional agreements with the cable companies, subject to the DOJ's expected review. Just last week, Comcast and Verizon announced that we are offering each other's products and services in Seattle and Portland as our initial markets. We expect to launch in additional cities in the coming months.

We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength, driving further penetration of smartphones and furthering our leadership position in 4G LTE. In FiOS, we expect to drive higher penetration in existing markets and effectively capture pent-up demand in multi-dwelling units and new markets.

And in the enterprise space, we are clearly gaining traction as a leading global provider in the information technology solutions space. The integration of Terremark and the addition of CloudSwitch have significantly improved our competitive position, giving us a unique set of capabilities that combines solutions around the network, data center, security and cloud infrastructure.

Another key focus area will be to continue to drive operating efficiencies across and throughout the entire business. With the formation of our Operational Excellence and Process Transformation organization reporting directly to Lowell, we are devoting dedicated resources to examining all costs and processes, including product rationalization, back-office operations and system consolidation. The upshot of our ability to execute and capture these incremental revenue opportunities and operating efficiencies will be an increase in the cash flows of the business.

As I said, the heavy investment cycles of the first 10 years of Verizon are largely behind us, and we have transformed ourselves into a Company very well-positioned in the growth markets of the future. We have the platforms, we have the people and we have the capabilities. We are poised to build on the strong foundation we have, accelerate the momentum we've achieved, further increase investment returns and create significant shareholder value in the years to come.

With that, I will turn the call back to John so we can get to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for questions, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. If we could just start with -- or stay with the 2012 outlook. Last year, Fran, when you gave the 5% to 8% earnings growth, you also suggested that that could double in 2012. Is that still the right range as we look forward here?

And then turning to postpaid ARPU, you had a big quarter in terms of smartphones and Internet devices. Based on what you're seeing now, how do you expect those sort of growth trends on the postpaid ARPU side to progress maybe in first quarter, and then an outlook for 2012, if possible. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. Good morning. First of all, on the 2012 outlook, so let me start here. Actually, John and I are doing this call remotely from our Innovation Center up here in Waltham, which is just a pillar of how we are going to accelerate our growth in the future. As many of you visited this facility, you saw the innovation of the products and the services, which I believe are pioneering the industry of developing these types of solutions that will increase our revenue from a machine-to-machine perspective and everything that is going to be driven over our LTE network, which we believe we are a market leader in.

So if you take the Wireless asset and then the FiOS asset and you look back to what we said back in January of 2011, when Lowell and I first stood on the stage live, we stated that we had a year execution in front of us and we had certain targets that we wanted to hit. And I think coming out of this year, I would say that my position has not changed from where I stood on that stage.

So growth opportunities for the future I believe are there. As I said in my script marks, I believe that the $2.15, as you look at it for 2012, should be a baseline of $2.20 as you project our growth out. But I would reiterate that my position from January has not changed as I sit here at the end of this year.

Going on to postpaid ARPU growth, I think if you look at this, we continue to grow our ARPU growth. I think that from an overall perspective, if you break that down, we had our phone ARPU grow to an all-time high of 4%. Now if you look back, that was 3.3% in the second quarter. That went up to 3.7% in the third, and now sitting at 4% overall. So you can see that the smartphone penetration is accelerating that phone ARPU growth.

As we've talked in the past, the Internet category has some dilution in it; so year-over-year, we are down 11%. And this is reflected back when we changed our prices back in October. So on an ARPU perspective of Internet devices, down 11%. But overall revenue growth from that category, as we said, we did this to expand the category. And again, this quarter, we were up 24% year-over-year in the amount of Internet devices we added, and we continue to have our strongest quarter of the year.

So we are executing on the expansion of that category. So year-over-year, the actual revenue is up 10%, even though there is some dilution in the ARPU side.

So I think, John, to answer your question, I am extremely positive and I stay with what I said coming out of the third quarter. We continue to see that we can accrete our ARPU into the future of 2012.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Maybe a couple questions just related to Wireline margins. Fran, you talked about continued improvement into 2012, and I'm just wondering if you can help us with the baseline for that comment. Is that meant to be improvement off the 23.8% exit rate or is that a sort of general 2012 versus 2011 comment?

And then related to that, can you just help us think through what the bigger drivers of improvement would be and if that includes any sort of benefit from the labor negotiations. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Jason. So the 23.8% coming out of the fourth quarter, what I would say is we are very, very confident that through all of the things that we are doing on Wireline first start off with FiOS and our continued penetration there, and we continue to gain market share in every market. New York continues to be our highest growing market there. So FiOS is a critical component to the growth of the Wireline on a top-line basis.

The other strategy that we've talked about a little bit in the past is the strategy of migrating our copper plant over to the FiOS plant, now that we have substantial FiOS passing prems where there is also copper. So what you are going to see this year is a very strategic initiative that we go out and we look at areas where there are chronic copper problems, and we start to transform them onto our FiOS network.

And the math would say if there is a chronic problem that we have to visit more than two times a year, the actual financial benefit of us transforming that to FiOS pays for itself within that year. So we will strategically start to go in there. What that brings is that brings an enormous expense savings to us from just an overall operational plant perspective. So that is one big component.

The second is obviously, with the new organization of Enterprise, we believe that with the acquisitions of Terremark and CloudSwitch, we continue to grow that top line. As I said, Terremark had an outstanding quarter, sequentially up 10%. That came out of a September all-time high booking. That will continue into '12, because obviously those bookings don't book all in the same quarter that you sell. In this business, it takes six to 12 month to record that revenue. So I think we are continuing to expand on our cloud services basis, which also helps top-line revenue for Wireline.

And then you get into the cost initiatives, which continue to really be a focus of the whole business unit. So from a foundational standpoint, what I would say is this -- is on a linear basis, you will see us increase Wireline margin. Will we have some setbacks here and there? Obviously, in the first quarter we have a lot of tax resets and so forth. So from that perspective, you may see us decline a little bit in the first quarter. But from that point, we will accelerate and continue to overall improve the Wireline margin of the business.

Now on the improvement side, I would tell you that we continue -- from a labor negotiation standpoint, we continue to negotiate at the table. Obviously, as I said before, we expect that we need to reconfigure the cost structure of our Wireline business, and that gets to the heart of the healthcare and the pension benefits of the Wireline representative employees. So our position has not changed, and we will continue to negotiate in good faith with the union, and we will report out when those negotiations are ended and where we end for that contractual period.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Fran, that's helpful. If I could just ask for one clarification, just on the prior EPS commentary. You said nothing has changed from your January position. I am just -- the clarification I guess would be the interpretation around the January position. Because the math of it would tell you 5% to 8% growth and then double that. So 10% to 16% growth. But then the separate interpretation was double the rate of 2011 growth. So are you saying you're comfortable in doubling the rate of 2011, or you are comfortable with the original 10% to 16%?

FRAN SHAMMO: It is more of I am comfortable with where we said we would be in January of '11. So my position has not changed.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning. Very strong results, obviously, from the iPhone; we've seen it across the industry. You talked about a very strong December. How should we think about Q1 versus Q4? Is this a product that is going to continue to have legs into the first quarter of the year? Or do you think the first quarter is going to be a more normal quarter, as we had had in, say, the first nine months of the year, including the sort of original iPhone launch? So any trends? I know it's early in the year, but I think -- how we should be thinking about Wireless margins in Q1?

And then staying on Wireless, you noted that there was some pressure on other service revenues from wholesale -- roaming; I think you lost a Telematics customer. If you could just give us a little more color around that, and what is going to sort of make that better in 2012. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Simon. From a Wireless margin perspective here, look, I think I look at it this way. You talk about one product; I talk about a whole portfolio of products. So if you look at our LTE lineup, and just to give you some numbers, we sold [11.4 million] (corrected by company after the call) Android-based products, and if you do the math for the quarter, is about [10.9 million] (corrected by company after the call) iPhone products. So they are both extremely significant to our portfolio.

If you look at LTE, we are coming out of the year with almost 18 devices on our network, and we will add six more in the first quarter of this year, leading us to 24.

So I think the way we look at it is our momentum coming out of the fourth quarter into the first quarter -- and obviously, the first quarter will be more of what we saw in the first three quarters, because obviously the fourth quarter is always a much higher volume quarter, just because of seasonality. So I would think that, Simon, on this one, what I would say is this, is we have a proven track record in Wireless that we both drive profitability and growth. And I would expect that in 2012, we will get back to and continue to improve on the Wireless margin.

So if you look at what we did in the third quarter, going back, we had an iPhone in our portfolio. We had three quarters under our belt with a very -- real large lineup of 4G LTE devices, and we produced the highest margin in Wireless in the history of the Wireless business at 47.8% margins.

So I guess what I would say to you is that we will strive to continue to improve on the Wireless margins, not only on the top-line growth perspective, but we also in the last two years trimmed out almost $3 billion of cost in our Wireless business. So again, I think the focus will be to improve and continue to grow, as well as improve on the profitability of the Wireless margins.

On the wholesale side, there are two things happening. Obviously, I reported out at the third quarter that with the sale of the Alltel properties, we knew that AT&T would be moving that traffic off of our network, which they did.

And then in the reseller base, I think it is very important to note that the resellers that we have contracts with are mainly prepaid resellers. And as I've said in the past, as this has declined in the last couple of quarters, we have an issue with us which is -- I will only enter into agreements that are win-win for both.

And right now, the market is at a point where I'm not going to compete on the wholesale rates that are in the marketplace. Although this is an extremely important channel for us and we continue to work with our highest resellers, we do have a shift mix in the reseller base. So we added 371,000 net reseller adds, but some of this is a mix change going into lower what I would call live-source type offerings and more universal service fund type offerings; so they carry a lower ARPU than some of our historical prepaid voice resellers would. But overall, the profitability of this is very substantial.

But I also think it is important to note that as we attack the prepaid market, we performed and launched our Unleashed product, which coming out of the third quarter I said and was very optimistic that this would be the first quarter that we showed positive net adds in that product space, and we actually did. So from a net perspective, we had net adds in prepaid for the first time in at least the past two years. So we are starting to gain momentum in the prepaid market, both through the reseller channel, but also through our Unleashed channel.

So I think that is what you can continue to see. So that is for the wholesale roaming side. So John, next question.

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Simon, appreciate it. Next question, please, Brad.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys. Thanks. Maybe let's talk about CapEx to start. You talked about better efficiency in the slide deck. With the revenue rising, should we think about that being sort of flat? And then also on the cash outlay side, can you talk about cash taxes in 2012? Do you expect that to be sort of in line with GAAP taxes or maybe a little higher as depreciation starts to slip away? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Phil. From a CapEx perspective, coming out of the first half this year, I stated that we would have very strong management of our capital expense as we continue to build out the EVDO network, and the capacity required to carry the iPhone on the 3G network from a capacity standpoint. And I think you've seen that Verizon Wireless has managed this extremely efficiently by moving higher-end Internet devices off of the 3G network onto our 4G network.

And just one other note is in the fourth quarter, all of our Internet devices sold, 100% of those adds were all on the 4G LTE network.

So I think from a CapEx standpoint, what I would say is I would not expect any change here, from a disciplined capital spending coming out of the back end of 2011 going into '12. And as I said, we will continue to improve our overall CapEx-to-revenue ratio. So I wouldn't expect you to see anything differently than what we've executed on through 2011.

As far as cash outlay from a cash tax perspective, as you know, the bonus depreciation is Safe Harbor for 2012, so there really is no additional cash tax from the bonus depreciation. And obviously, there are still a lot of things that we are looking at for 2012, from a bonus depreciation discussion down in Washington of an extension of that, possible overall corporate tax restructure. So we look at those things.

But I will tell you that even without that, we continue on a very complex organization of taxes for federal purposes, continue to strategize and continue to think of how we best utilize our structure to make sure that we have as minimal a cash outlay as possible from a cash tax perspective.

The only thing I will highlight from a cash differentiation for 2012 is the pension plan contribution, as I talked about. This will go from $400 million up to $1.26 million for '12, and those contributions will be made more or less smoothly through the year, but the first and the third quarter will be around $400 million, and then evenly in the second and fourth quarter. So that really is the only change from what I would expect from a cash outlay.

The only other thing I would say is as our profits continue to increase and we grow bottom line, obviously our cash taxes will increase with them. So Phil, thank you for your question.

PHIL CUSICK: Thanks, Fran.

OPERATOR: Timothy Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. Good morning, guys. Just trying to understand, Fran, your comments on LTE, maybe what you are thinking on market share and on the pricing for LTE. It has clearly expanded the market, but maybe when do you think you have the ability to go out and raise prices for LTE?

And I'm not sure if you gave the numbers, but what percentage of LTE subscribers are new to Verizon, and maybe how does that compare with the iPhone?

And lastly, it just seems like LTE is such a huge advantage this year. Do consumers really understand it? Is the advantage really going to be pressed with all the new devices that you have coming out? And just how you are thinking about LTE versus your competition for this year. It would just seem it was the year you would be able to capture a lot of the high-end subscribers off your peers.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, Tim. I think just from an overall market perspective, obviously, we believe that we are, without a doubt, the market leader in this innovation, pioneering of the technology of LTE. We have now over 200 million POPs covered, which exceeded what our original plans were, to achieve 185 million POPs.

And as I said, we initially told that we would have 3G and 4G coverage about the same by the end of 2013, and we have now said by mid-2013 we will have that coverage fulfilled.

So I think from just an overall leadership position and a market position, I think we are in great shape. From a pricing perspective, obviously, we did the fourth-quarter promotion, where we said we doubled your allowance coming, so that we would have more enticement of people looking at the 4G product. And as you can see, we had our all-time high of 4G devices moved, of over 2.4 million devices in the quarter moved from that strategy.

So I think overall pricing, what I would say is this. I think you will see more movement on device pricing than you will on overall service pricing. We will have to see what the competitive marketplace holds for this. But I think that from just an overall perspective, LTE will be a market leadership for us.

And it is not only around just the retail market, but we can't lose sight of the machine-to-machine market. And obviously, I said I was sitting up here in the Innovation Lab. There is a lot of technology and innovation that is going to come out around automobile, around healthcare, around energy conservation, that really will leap-bound anything that we see currently in the marketplace today.

So I think from a machine-to-machine perspective, we continue to see growth in our adds quarter-over-quarter, and I see that continuing through 2012 and have a market leadership position there.

TIMOTHY HORAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. First, can we just get an update on Verizon Wireless debt and cash at the end of the quarter?

And then secondly, can we just get a deeper dive on what is happening in the improvement in Global Enterprise revenue? What are the products that you find are really helping the Strategic Service revenue growth? And then are you also seeing less headwinds on those downward pressures on the legacy side of Enterprise? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Mike. From a Verizon Wireless perspective, they are going to end the year at $12.3 billion worth of cash on the balance sheet. They have $11.6 billion of debt. So they are actually in a surplus position of $700 million.

For 2012, they have about $1.6 billion of maturities coming that will be paid down. And as I said, within the next week, we will have a $10 billion distribution to both of the parents there. So that is the situation of the cash and the debt on the Wireless side.

From an Enterprise perspective, I think that it is critical here just overall, with this organizational structure that Lowell has set up with the Enterprise Solutions group. It is key for us, because I said before, as we approached our Enterprise customers, we still had a delineation between a Wireless solution and a Wireline solution. And now that the organization has come together, with the product rationalization that I talked about, it is going to be critical for us to present one solution to our customer end-to-end. And that really, I think, will elevate where we are today just from an overall Strategic Services position.

But to get to your question, Mike, about exactly what are we selling. Obviously, cloud services, the acquisition of Terremark, the additional CloudSwitch, the opening of the NAP Center in Amsterdam, the expansion of our San Paulo, Brazil data center, which quite honestly, up to the acquisition of Terremark, Verizon really never played or had a position in Latin America, so this is a very high growth area for us. So I think, one, absolutely around the cloud.

But also the convergence of cloud and what that brings from an overall enterprise mobility standpoint and the integration of that cloud and that mobility solution, when you look at machine-to-machine and cloud and what that can bring to an enterprise customer in a vertical solution set. So I think you are going to see more and more around cloud, but machine-to-machine. And then obviously, around our IT and advanced communication offerings.

But there also is a differentiation as to what we sell here in North America versus what we sell outside of North America. And as I said before, outside on international, again this quarter we grew our international enterprise base by in excess of 9%. So even with all of the pressures you see around the world, we continue to grow. Now, obviously, that is because of low market share in those markets, but continued growth for us. And as we expand internationally, I think you will see more international growth out of us, especially around the cloud services. And as I said, the collaboration of Vodafone where it makes sense.

So I think there is a couple different facets there, but I am very -- I have a very good outlook for our enterprise revenue growth going into '12, even with the continued stabilization of the economy. And we have not forecasted much growth there, but stabilization would be a key. And if there is growth there, then I think we are even more optimistic on our enterprise growth.

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Thank you, Fran. Most of my questions have been answered, but just on FiOS, nice growth there. I know you said it is going to be a large part of the revenue contribution in Wireline next year -- or this year, rather. Can you just comment on the pricing you are seeing there and the competitive environment, specifically with the cable players?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, I think this is extremely important, because as I said before, I know folks are saying that we are overly competitive in pricing. But what I would say is that the pricing has not actually changed. And if anything, if you look at it, there was a price increase in 2011, and there will probably be some more price increases in 2012 as we go here.

But I think the differentiation we have here is we have a superior product in FiOS. It is taking hold in the marketplace. We are seeing -- as I said, New York is our highest-growing market. This past year, we crossed a milestone in Virginia; we passed 40% penetration on our video services. You can see we had a good quarter on broadband connection in FiOS.

And I think if you look at the line loss that we said at 7.2%, you can see that strategy of the chronic -- we started that in the fourth quarter of this year a little bit -- you can see that we are starting to convert copper voice customers onto FiOS. So continuing to grow and hold on to that declining revenue stream of the legacy product.

So I think overall, FiOS will continue to play a very important strategic role in the future of Wireline. We will compete vigorously with this. Even with the agreements that we entered into with the cable companies, if you look at the innovation agreement, that innovation will come into FiOS. And being a superior product already, that innovation will add what we can bring to the consumer base from an overall perspective.

So I think overall, I am very optimistic on our FiOS penetration for 2012.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great, thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks Jennifer. Brad, looks like we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks for taking the question, guys. Appreciate it. Two, if I could. First, Fran, going back to the Wireless pricing equation, you guys have had, I think, a comfort level with your products status relative to others, pricing it at a premium. We saw a price hike a year ago from Sprint. We saw an overall kind of refresh of pricing from AT&T recently. You have talked about the introduction of new family plan prices. If you could kind of elaborate a little bit on how the pricing lever can be used to kind of grow ARPU in 2012, that would be helpful.

And then second, the Wireline revenue side would probably have grown in aggregate if it weren't really for the kind of Other segment, which kind of fell off in 4Q. Could you kind of elaborate a little bit on what is going on there and what the outlook for that is in '12? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So David, just to follow up, you are talking on the wholesale side of Wireline?

DAVID BARDEN: Sorry, on the -- there's Consumer, Small Business [equals] Mass Markets and then Strategic Services and Other, which was 1.94, down from 1.99 in 3Q.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay. All right. Very good, thanks. So from an overall Wireless pricing equation, I think that we are the market leader. We set our tiered pricing structure when we launched our 4G network. And as I said, the way we positioned our 4G tiered pricing was that based on our future view of where usage would go, we saw that we had opportunity from a tiered structure and the proliferation of video through the LTE network that we would grow our revenue streams. And that is what we are seeing, just from an overall tiered pricing structure.

As we continue to mature this, we have said that we are looking at family data plans, if you will. And we continue to look at that. And obviously, the play there is to make sure that it is a win-win for the customer and a win-win for us from an accretion standpoint. So we continue to work that.

But I think it is important to note that we are a premium-priced product, but we will win in the marketplace just like we did with Unleashed. Even though that is priced $10 above the market, we now see that there are niches of people that want to be on the best network in the world. So I think that will continue to be our strategy, and we will see here as 2012 goes.

As far as Wireline goes on that, I think wholesale, we continue to see pressure on the wholesale side of the business just from a legacy voice. And as we transform this business from a legacy voice business to a data business, continue with our fiber-to-the-cell program, which we are building out for various Wireless carriers, this continues to be very good business for us, but not quite enough to offset the voice loss. So I think we will continue to see pressure in there going into 2012.

As far as the Other category, this is legacy MCI [108] traffic call, collect type traffic, which will continue to decline. It is not something strategic for us, and we will just really move that as a cash cow at this point, and that will continue to decline.

So overall, the focus here is on the consumer Wireline margin, the enterprise portfolio and then also the wholesale portfolio.

DAVID BARDEN: I keep forgetting about that MCI stuff. Thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, David. Brad, that concludes our call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120207e81o0018j
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  Verizon  Communications Inc Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,234 words
   PD
21 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.

   TD
JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Brad; good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning, I'm John Doherty. With me this morning is Fran Shammo. Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website.

This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are also available on our website.

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

For the third quarter of 2011 we reported earnings of $0.49 per share on a GAAP basis. These results include $201 million, or $0.07 per share, for a non-operational charge for pension-related items primarily comprised of actuarial re-measurement losses related to employees who received lump sum distributions in connection with previously announced separation plans. On an adjusted basis EPS was $0.56 bringing our year-to-date total to $1.63. With that I'll now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP & CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details let me start with some brief comments. We had another quarter of solid execution and earnings performance. Adjusted earnings were higher than the same quarter last year and would have been higher sequentially were it not for some extraordinary and hopefully nonrecurring challenges this quarter.

In spite of this additional pressure from the storms and the strike, which had about a $0.05 impact on EPS in the quarter, we remain on track to achieve our full-year earnings guidance of 5% to 8% growth in adjusted earnings per share off a base of $2.08 in 2010.

In terms of cash generation, we had a strong quarter with disciplined capital spending resulting in solid increase in free cash flow. I'd also highlight that our Board of Directors approved a 2.6% dividend increase in September, which on an annual basis is an increase from $1.95 to $2.00 per share. This marked the fifth consecutive year of dividend increases, a testament to our Board's confidence in the sustainability of our cash flows.

We are very pleased with our progress in the key strategic areas which are the platforms for sustainable growth. In Wireless we continue to perform extremely well and we are further enhancing our leadership in 4G LTE. In addition to making great progress in extending our network capabilities to more markets we are seeing increasing customer demand for Smartphones, tablets and Internet devices that take advantage of the superior speeds of our LTE network.

In FiOS we continue to steadily increase penetration in all our markets. By further penetrating existing markets we will enhance our capital and operating efficiency and improve overall investment returns.

In the enterprise space we are getting some traction in spite of the macroeconomic challenges. We are having productive dialogue with many large customers and secured new agreements for strategic services during the quarter with RWE of Germany, Smile Brands and the University of North Carolina to name a few.

Our competitive position in the cloud space has been bolstered by the acquisition of Terremark earlier this year and more recently with the addition of CloudSwitch, a well-known software as a service provider. A number of multinational companies, including ARINC, adopted our cloud services during the quarter.

Some segment specific highlights are on slide 4. In Wireless we had another excellent quarter with strong growth in retail customers, revenue and ARPU accretion. Our performance with respect to margin, churn and free cash flow was extremely strong in the third quarter. In fact, our Wireless service EBITDA margin of 47.8% is the highest we have ever reported since the formation of Verizon Wireless in the year 2000.

In Wireline an unprecedented series of storms caused power outages and severe flooding in nearly every part of our landline footprint, causing a significant increase in repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the two-week strike in August delayed new FiOS installations and, together with the storms, created a sharp increase in our FiOS sales order backlog. The storms also created delays in some order provisioning with enterprise customers.

The impact of these factors caused a 250 basis point decline in the Wireline EBITDA margin this quarter. In spite of these challenges we did increase penetration in both FiOS Internet and TV. In addition, we continued to improve our overall Wireline revenue mix with FiOS representing nearly 60% of consumer revenue and strategic services nearly 50% of enterprise revenue. All things considered we had a solid performance under some tough circumstances.

Let's now move to our more detailed review of the quarter starting with slide 5. Our top-line growth trends continue to be very positive with solid growth in all strategic areas -- Wireless, FiOS and enterprise strategic services.

Consolidated revenue in the third quarter increased to $27.9 billion or 5.4% year over year. Through nine months adjusted revenue growth was 5.6%. Consolidated EBITDA for the third quarter totaled $9.2 billion, up 4.1% year over year. Obviously this growth was adversely affected by Wireline this quarter.

Earnings for the quarter were $0.49 per share with $0.07 of non-operational charges related to pensions and benefits. So our $0.56 adjusted result compares favorably with our first two quarters of this year, especially when you consider that it includes about $0.05 of storm and strike impact.

Through nine months our $1.63 per share represents a 5.8% increase in adjusted EPS on a comparable basis with last year. Again, our year-to-date performance confirms the strength of the business and the path that we are on to create long-term shareholder value.

Let's turn next to cash flow and capital spending on slide 6. Our free cash flow this quarter increased by $1.9 billion or 59% sequentially driven by a double-digit increase in cash from operations and reduced levels of capital spending. So far we've invested $12.5 billion in capital through nine months and we are on track to meet our full-year guidance of $16.5 billion which is equal to the amount we spent last year.

Our CapEx to revenue ratio in the third quarter was 13%, a 350 basis point improvement sequentially and 260 basis points better year over year. In Wireless capital spending in the third quarter totaled $1.8 billion which was significantly less than the $2.7 billion spent in each of the first two quarters of this year. As we've said, second-half spending will be lower than the first half particularly with regard to 3G capacity.

Our 4G LTE deployment is going very well and we are now providing service in 165 markets covering more than 186 million POPs. With additional markets planned in November and December we are actually ahead of schedule and have already exceeded our year-end target of 185 million POPs.

In Wireline capital expenditures in the third quarter totaled $1.6 billion. Year-to-date Wireline capital spending of $4.8 billion was 6.5% lower than last year. We've generated $9 billion in free cash flow for the first nine months and our outlook for the balance of the year remains very strong, especially in light of the lower capital requirements. The sustainability of this cash flow underpins our commitment to returning cash to shareholders.

You will recall that in late July the Verizon Wireless Board of Representatives declared a distribution of $10 billion to its owners payable on January 31, 2012. In addition, as I highlighted earlier, our Board recently approved a dividend increase for the fifth consecutive year.

Our financial position is strong from a balance sheet perspective, net debt at the end of September was $44.6 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio is about 1.3 times.

Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with Wireless on slide 7. Our Wireless business had another impressive quarter with solid growth in postpaid connections, the highest retail service revenue growth we've seen since the second quarter of 2009 and faster growth in retail postpaid ARPU. In addition, our industry leading EBITDA service margin improved to a record high 47.8%.

Total revenue grew to $17.7 billion in the quarter, up 9.1% year over year. Retail service revenue, which includes both postpaid and prepaid, grew 6.9% year over year, 140 basis points higher than the 5.5% growth we reported in the second quarter. Postpaid service revenue, which represents 98% of retail service, grew 7.2% year over year.

Total service revenue grew 6.1% year over year; this rate of growth was impacted by a $61 million year-over-year decline in other service which is primarily roaming and wholesale revenue. Total data revenue grew to $6.1 billion in the quarter, up 20.5% year over year. Data now represents 40.6% of our total service revenue.

Growth continues to be driven by Web and e-mail services which increased to $3.7 billion this quarter, up more than 36% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up just under one-third of data revenue, grew at just over 5% on the year-over-year basis.

Let's take a closer look at connections growth on slide 8. We continue to gain share in the retail postpaid market and lead in 4G LTE. Retail customer growth continues to be driven by steady demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices and, of course, on the reliability of our premier network.

During the third quarter we added over 1.3 million total connections, 882,000 were retail postpaid net adds; 86,000 were retail prepaid; and roughly 367,000 were wholesale and other connections. Importantly, 52% of the retail postpaid net adds in the quarter were 4G LTE Smartphones and Internet data devices, up from 30% in the second quarter.

Our $50 monthly unlimited prepaid phone offer was only available nationwide since September 15, which was not long enough to affect the quarter. We are optimistic that this will help our retail prepaid performance in the fourth quarter.

Total device sales, both gross adds and upgrades, while relatively strong were down about 5% sequentially this quarter, due primarily to customer anticipation of the next version of the Apple iPhone. Retail postpaid gross adds totaled 3.3 million, up about 3% year over year but lower sequentially. The percentage of customers upgrading was also lower than the prior two quarters.

The continued demand for our Wireless products is not only driving growth in connections and revenue but also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty. Our churn metrics this quarter were once again excellent with retail postpaid churn of only 0.94%, a 13 basis point improvement over the same quarter last year.

Next, let's turn to slide 9 and take a closer look at Smartphones and retail postpaid ARPU. We continue to make progress in terms of Smartphone sales, increasing the Smartphone penetration of our retail postpaid phone base to 39% from 36% last quarter. A year ago that penetration was 24%.

We sold 5.6 million Smartphones in the quarter representing 60% of all postpaid phone sales compared with 43% a year ago. More than half of the total Smartphones sold this quarter were Android phones either 3G or 4G; another 35% or 2 million were iPhones, bringing our year-to-date total to 6.5 million. We anticipate that the strong demand we're seeing for the new iPhone 4S will bring even more new customers to the nation's most reliable Wireless network. We sold a total of 1.4 million 4G LTE devices in the quarter, just over half of these were Smartphones and the rest were Internet data devices.

Shifting now to ARPU, retail postpaid ARPU was $54.89, up 2.4% year over year which is a 50 basis point improvement in growth from last quarter. Keep in mind that that is a blended metric. Retail postpaid phone ARPU is about $56 and grew 3.7% year over year, showing good accretion from 3.2% growth last quarter.

Internet data devices have an ARPU of about $49. While the growth of these devices is diluting our postpaid ARPU growth at this time, expanding this category remains a key strategic focus for us. We continue to see strong demand for our 4G LTE mobile Hotspot devices and PC cards as well as tablets. This category of devices represents nearly 8% of all our retail postpaid subscriber base.

I would also note that these data-only devices typically carry a much lower subsidy than phones. They have a very short payback period and contribute to profitability fairly quickly. In addition, the migration of data traffic from our 3G to our 4G network will enhance our capital and operating efficiency and will help us drive improved returns going forward.

Let's conclude our Wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on slide 10. In the third quarter we generated $7.2 billion of EBITDA, an increase of 7.5% year over year, and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 240 basis points sequentially to 47.8%. This is an extraordinarily strong result.

Our margin improvement goes beyond the fact that device sales were lower this quarter. Higher retail service revenue and our intense focus on cost efficiency are clearly helping to mitigate the cost of higher equipment subsidies. In addition, we continue to lead the industry in customer loyalty, which we believe is a testament to the quality and reliability of our network and to the overall customer experience. We continue to execute very well on our strategy of increasing growth and profitability.

Let's move to our Wireline segment next on slide 11. As I said earlier, the third quarter posted challenges to the Wireline business and as a result some of our key financial performance metrics were adversely affected. Setting aside these impacts, total Wireline revenue in the quarter remained steady.

Consumer revenue grew 1.1% year over year with FiOS revenue up 18.5%. In global enterprise revenue growth was 2.1% year over year driven by strategic services growth of 15.6%. Strategic services are becoming a much larger portion of our revenue mix now representing nearly 50% of total enterprise.

From a profitability perspective, segment EBITDA in the quarter decreased $160 million or 6.9% year over year. We've estimated that the storms and the strike cost us $250 million in the quarter, causing the Wireline EBITDA margin to decline sequentially to 21.4%.

Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance starting with mass markets on slide 12. Consumer revenues were $3.4 billion, up 1.1% versus last year. Consumer ARPU continued to increase and is now over $94. Residential access line loss this quarter was 8% compared with 9.6% a year ago.

FiOS now represents nearly 60% of consumer revenue. The increasing scale of the FiOS platform is significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in the consumer landline business. The storms and the strike caused customer growth in FiOS to be lower than prior quarters. In FiOS TV we added 131,000 subscribers in the quarter bringing our total to 4 million and increasing our penetration to 31%.

On the broadband side we added 138,000 new FiOS Internet subscribers in the quarter, increasing our FiOS Internet customer base to 4.6 million representing 35% penetration of homes open for sale. By adding in our 4 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers we ended the quarter with a total of 8.6 million broadband connections adding a net positive 20,000 broadband connections this quarter.

While we always have a healthy FiOS pipeline, our installation backlog spiked to roughly 1.8 times at its peak in early September. We ended the quarter at about 1.2 times our typical pipeline and have been actively working through these orders in October. In the fourth quarter we expect to add more than 200,000 FiOS Internet and TV subscribers.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 13. In global enterprise increases in strategic services continue to drive year-over-year revenue improvement led by a very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network, call center, IP communications and our cloud offerings.

The inclusion of Terremark added about $100 million to revenue this quarter. As a result of our improving sales mix the absolute dollar growth in strategic services once again outpaced the decline in core enterprise services.

International revenue, which makes up approximately 15% of global enterprise, grew 9.8% year over year. In global wholesale, while revenues declined 9% year over year the rate of decline is moderating on a sequential basis.

As we've discussed, our route rationalization strategy resulted in a substantial decline in international voice revenue which has impacted year-over-year comparisons. We made these price changes in 2010 and have one more quarter to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.

In the third quarter this accounted for a revenue decline of about $90 million year over year. Absent these effects second-quarter global wholesale revenues declined 5.8% year over year. This decline is primarily in domestic voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.

I will wrap up now on slide 14. Back in January when we talked about our 2011 priorities I said this year would be all about execution. Now that we are three quarters through the year our results demonstrate solid execution on our strategy. We are on track to meet our guidance for revenue and earnings growth as well as capital spending in spite of the challenges that impacted us in the third quarter.

We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength. We are geared up for an exciting fourth quarter with a host of new Smartphones, tablets and data devices coming to the market. Earlier this week we announced the Droid RAZR by Motorola, the world's thinnest 4G LTE Smartphone.

In FiOS we expect to get back on track quickly, driving higher penetration in existing markets and effectively capturing pent-up demand in new markets. In the enterprise space we are also gaining momentum as a leading global provider in the information technology solutions space.

The integration of Terremark and the recent acquisition of CloudSwitch have significantly improved our competitive position. We now have a unique set of capabilities to combine solutions around the network, data center, security and cloud infrastructure that allowed Terremark to achieve record new sales bookings in the third quarter.

More and more CIOs are recognizing the value of our enterprise solutions, which is helping us to effectively manage through some pockets of economic pressure in the small and mid-size business markets. Our financial objective is to continue to increase free cash flow through improved operating performance, disciplined capital spending and the efficient use of working capital. Our balance sheet is strong and we have a very competitive dividend. With that I will turn it back to John so we can get to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for questions, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Fran, a couple questions, first on Wireless. If we look at retail service growth, I think as you mentioned, up 6.9% -- that's a big step up sequentially. But when we look at the total service growth line up 6.1%, I think that's been weighed down a bit, as you mentioned, by roaming. Can you just help us think through that and when some of that pressure might abate?

And then second question, just on Wireline margins, sort of excluding the storm and the strike costs, were up 10 basis points sequentially. That's the fourth straight quarter we've seen sequential improvement. As we look forward can margins expand further from here? What's the outlook? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So first, let's talk about the Wireless segment on the service revenue. So overall 6.1%, that was down from 6.6% in the second quarter. Before I get to that explanation, just a couple things to highlight here. As you mentioned, the retail service revenue from 5.6% to 6.9% and then retail postpaid from 6.2% to 7.2%.

And as you recall back in the second quarter I reiterated that we were on a glide path to accelerate our ARPU growth and our revenue growth into the third quarter and I continue to see that ramp going into the fourth quarter.

Now as far as service revenue goes, we did have a $61 million decline in wholesale and other and the majority of this was all related to the Alltel properties and that traffic moving off of our network. So as far as going forward, that traffic is gone. But just keep in mind, that revenue stream is less than 4% of our total revenue, so it really has no impact on the bottom line per se and that's why we're focused in on the entire postpaid base area.

Now as far as Wireline goes, what I would say is that when you consider the storms and all of that and then from a perspective of the backlog that we have, both on the FiOS side and also the enterprise side, this leads into what will continue into the fourth quarter. And I think we've been very clear that both Lowell's and my objective is to improve the overall profitability and cash flow of the Wireline unit.

And what I would say is that we will increase the margin in the fourth quarter. I think there will be some echo effect here from the backlog on a top-line basis in booking that revenue. Now having said that, Terremark did have an outstanding September and that revenue will flow in the fourth quarter.

So at this point I think it's too early to tell exactly where we'll end up. We started to recover from the storms on the installation side the last three weeks of the third quarter. FiOS adds actually came in better than we thought. Originally we thought we'd be about a 50% run rate, we came in higher than that. So we're starting to eat into that backlog and it's a fact of how quickly we can get there.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Great, thanks.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Jason. Brad, next question please.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: This may be a follow up to Jason's last question there. Could you give us more detail on the $0.05 of storm-related costs and maybe break that out a bit? And I guess similar to his question -- I guess you're suggesting that we're going to see some more expenses in 4Q given the backlog. I'm just trying to get a sense if the margins in 4Q snap back to 2Q levels or what the delta will be?

And then I guess while we're still talking about margins, you benefited from somewhat fewer upgrades, fewer Smartphone sales. As we look at the margins on the Wireless side on the 4Q should we expect that to reverse given the people waiting for the iPhone and then the typical seasonality we see in 4Q? If you could just give us a sense of how you expect that to fall out in the fourth quarter that would be great. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks for the question on the storms. As you know, this was an experience unprecedented from Hurricane Irene and the tropical storm Lee over a very short period of time. In speaking with our operating people, these storms were a really big deal for us. They produced really strong winds, about 20 inches of rain across our entire footprint, damage to our outside network facilities, fallen lines.

Just to give you an idea of how severe this storm was, we had over 4,000 poles down which damaged countless cables, 820,000 more dispatches in our core which was two times our normal, we had about 254 central offices running off of generator because of power outages. So this stormy was a extremely significant impact to our normal operating results.

Having said that, I think the team has done an unbelievable job in getting the repair and maintenance queue back into a relatively normal position. There's probably a couple more weeks here and then we'll be back running very clean there. And as I said, we recovered late in the third quarter from an installation perspective, but there will be some trickle affect here into the fourth quarter.

And it's more of a top-line issue I think in getting this revenue installed and booked and recorded than it is more of an expense issue, although I think there still will be some trickle of overtime into the fourth quarter in getting this back to speed. But the projectory -- I guess the way I would say it is we've been on a very good momentum in improving the overall Wireline margin, we've had a bit of a setback here due to the storm, we'll get back on track.

As far as the Wireless margin goes, what I would say there is this goes beyond just less devices sold. This is -- we had a $1.8 billion program at the beginning of the year for Wireless to reduce cost, we're $1.6 billion into that program of savings recorded from logistics and real estate and customer service centers and other things that Wireless has worked on. So it's more just around less devices, it's more around operating the most efficient business in the industry from a Wireless perspective.

JOHN HODULIK: Great. Thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, John. Brad, can we take the next question please?

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Quickly just to follow up on John's comment and then a bigger question. With Wireline margins maybe dragged a little bit in terms of rebound in the fourth quarter and Wireless probably down in 4Q, first you reiterated EPS guidance, but should we be think about sort of low end there? And is there any risk to the low end of that?

And then second, in terms of a bigger question, can you talk about what you're seeing from customers and the economy? We have seen -- enterprise decelerated a little bit here; wholesale, you talked about it improving sequentially. But what are you seeing out there in terms of what your customers are telling you both for this year and then their planning process for next year? Thanks, guys.

FRAN SHAMMO: So let me hit the economy first. I think that overall from an economic impact we are still seeing some real severe impact in the small-business arena, some in the mid-tier. And again, it's not that we're losing more business competitors, that's pretty consistent. What it is is that the start-ups have not been created from an economic standpoint. So I think that's where the biggest issue is that we have from an economic standpoint.

Now having said that, the enterprise -- if you recall the first and second quarter we showed positive growth even when you take out Terremark. This quarter we showed growth with Terremark, about a 0.5% decrease without Terremark. And that was really more around the backlog of installing the new circuits and the new business because we were really focused on the repairs and maintenance side.

So that's going to -- I think we're going to improve here in the fourth quarter, we'll get quickly back on track. But from an overall enterprise perspective it is all around cloud services. So the Terremark asset, our security portfolio, those types of things are going to drive the enterprise business to where we need it to go. And then overall on EPS what I'll say is even given this extraordinary event in the third quarter we will hit our guidance that we gave in the beginning of the year.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Phil. Brad, can we take the next question please?

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I wonder if you could update us on the labor negotiations, where we stand on that. And in particular, as we come to the end of the year, sort of the benefits outlook. Perhaps you can expand on the $0.07 charge and just talk us through what you think the impacts in the fourth quarter might be given the asset returns and given potential benefit changes as part of the union contract renegotiation? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: As far as the union negotiations go, we continue to speak to the union. It's going like any negotiation goes. So as we said, this was going to be a marathon, not a quick negotiation and we continue with those negotiations. And at this point it's too early to tell where we'll come out.

We know what we need from a business, we need cost structural change in the Wireline business, it is not sustainable with 100% benefits being paid and 100% pension benefits. So these those things have to change.

And then there's a lot of work rules and other things that we need to change in order to run our business efficiently and be competitive with the cable companies and our other competitors. So from that perspective that's about it for the union negotiations.

On the fourth-quarter charge, it's really too early to tell because the discount rate won't be set until December 31. The return on assets, it really depends on your portfolio compared to what your assumptions were and at this point we don't know where we'll end up with that yet.

So I think it's premature to tell, but obviously there will be a mark to market adjustment in the fourth quarter. So beyond that there's really nothing else to disclose until we get to the end of the year and we get to the January call and we'll make sure that we explain everything that happened during that quarter.

SIMON FLANNERY: And the $0.07, Fran?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, on the $0.07, this was an impact we had to take a charge in the management plan and it's really around the GAAP settlement accounting charges. So it is what it is from a GAAP perspective and it's because the lump sum payments exceeded the periodic expense and in GAAP you have to take a settlement charge when that happens and that happened this year -- for the quarter, I'm sorry.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Simon. Brad, can we move on to the next question please?

OPERATOR: Jennifer Fritzsche, Wells Fargo.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Fran, we've all seen the big numbers that AT&T has put out with the iPhone 4S and I know the iPhone is clearly, as you indicated, an important part of your portfolio. But as we look at this kind of next generation of the device, how do you see it? Because with just over a third of your base having Smartphones, in my view you have a clear opportunity for upgrades.

So with this device as other iPhone users come off contract it also gives you a huge opportunity to maybe win back some new gross adds that maybe you lost when AT&T first had it. And can you just comment, as you look at this mix of this device how do you balance those two opportunities?

FRAN SHAMMO: As far as the iPhone 4S goes, we're extremely pleased with our sales. We ran out the first day, we are on allocation from Apple, we continue to be an allocation and we continue to be in backlog from the first 24 hours. So we're extremely pleased with that.

What I will tell you, I'm not going to get into volumes, it's too early in the quarter as to how many phones I'll potentially sell. But what I will say is that the ratio of upgrade and new on the Apple phone has not changed pre- and post-launch. So we continue to generate that 20% new with around 80% upgrade. So we feel that third-quarter performance will continue into our fourth-quarter performance.

And then from an overall device perspective, the lead that we have around LTE 4G and the 15 devices including notebooks that we have in that ecosystem is unsurpassed by any competitor. And I think we have a strategic advantage here and we sold more 4G devices this quarter than we did last quarter.

I will tell you that if you look at our Internet devices, about 95% are all now 4G LTE and that's a big deal for us because that means we are now moving high-end users on MiFi and dongles off a 3G network onto 4G which obviously frees up spectrum and reduces our capital expense which you saw here in the third quarter. So we're executing on the strategy that we laid out and I think we'll have a very successful fourth quarter with our portfolio layout of devices.

JENNIFER FRITZSCHE: Great, thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Jennifer. Brad, can we move on to the next question please?

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citigroup.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Real quick, can we just get an update as to where the Wireless net debt is at the end of the third quarter? And then secondly, going back to the Wireline side, can you give us a bit of an update on where the non-FiOS territory stands in terms of performance, your need or interest to invest further in that footprint to improve broadband capabilities? And where that piece of the portfolio sits strategically for you? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So from a net debt on Wireless, they have gross debt of $12.5 billion, cash on hand of $9 billion, net debt is $3.5 billion. On the Wireline side in the non-FiOS areas, obviously our strategy is to complete the 18 million build for FiOS and transition that. And as you know, we've really concentrated on investing in FiOS and curtailing the investment in the copper network and moving people from copper to FiOS. And that is a big strategic initiative that Lowell has set out for the business to accomplish.

Now those lines that are outside that FiOS and outside of any potential of passing ever with FiOS we will continue to be competitive in this area but I think it's going to be around LTE. We're not going to invest a lot of capital in the copper core network in those outlying areas. But I think we have a strategic bundle that we can go into those households with, give them a better experience than their currently having on their DSL line from a bundling of the Wireless portfolio that we have. So that's the strategy that we're going to deploy.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: And Fran, just to follow up on that. Is there any thought of taking that non-FiOS bundle of presumably LTE broadband LTE voice, what about taking that more nationally and making that more of a national product for you versus just maybe an out of FiOS region but in territory Verizon product?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, we are. And you're going to see that come in the fourth quarter with the -- what we now call the Cantenna which is not a commercial name obviously, but it's the antenna that we actually trialed with DIRECTV, which was extremely successful. And again, the benefit of this antenna is it operates the spectrum extremely efficiently.

So if you look at a MiFi card or a dongle, this is very, very efficient, way above those two devices which is why it's critical to have that bundle with that Cantenna. So when we launch that you're going to see us go nationally with that type of an offer.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Mike. Brad, let's move onto the next question.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Fran, if I could just do two quick ones. Number one, are you able at this stage of the game to maybe size the upside opportunity that you guys have from this potential inter-carrier comp refresh that we're expecting to come potentially at the end of the month and get implemented next year?

And then second, you called out the Alltel roaming impact in the quarter. Obviously Sprint has a game plan where over the next two years they're saying that they want to get rid of about $1 billion in roaming expense from refreshing their network. Could you kind of tell us what your exposure to Sprint is and how you think about the roaming impact on 2012 and beyond? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So first, on the inter-carrier comp and I guess I'll lump in the USF here as well. We are fully supportive of the regulatory change the FCC is heading up, not exactly what the industry is looking at but really in the right direction of cutting the access charges immediately and then phasing them out over time. Complete overhaul of the USF cost subsidy, promoting broadband and getting away from the voice subsidy and moving that to broadband -- so we are all in favor of that.

As far as the inter-carrier comp goes, we have been a leader in this industry forcing this issue really from twofold -- one, to get a more systematic approach to the entire industry; and then also to really relieve the industry of the fraud and the traffic pumping schemes that are happening throughout.

So from a benefit overall perspective we are a net payer so obviously there will be some benefit, but there will also be some puts and takes within our own portfolio. So if you think about it Wireline probably won't have a benefit, but Wireless and VZB will.

So with each of the individual units, once we determine what the impact of the regulation is and the sizing of that, then we'll have a better understanding of what those benefits are and we'll share them at that time.

As far as the Alltel roaming and then into Sprint, I know there's been a lot numbers cast out there, but the impact to us is nowhere near the numbers that are being reported. So all I will tell you is this, is that there has to be a lot of execution in order for that to happen. Our revenue is not material at all from Sprint.

So I think that there's a lot of numbers being thrown out, but not a lot of justification behind the number that is being thrown out, especially from where I sit on my side of the house. So I think we'll just have to wait to see what the execution of that plan is, but I don't think this is a near-term issue.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: You talked earlier about how some of the margin strength you saw in wireless during the quarter was not just a function of a slowdown in gross adds ahead of the iPhone, but also some of the cost measures you put in place. If we think ahead, though, you will probably see a pretty meaningful improvement in your gross adds in the fourth quarter.

Just by thinking about this order of magnitude, if you were to end up in the fourth quarter with a high water mark for postpaid net adds, does that mean you would be at a low water mark for EBITDA margins? Or have you actually put in place enough operational cost savings that you could come in a little bit better than that?

FRAN SHAMMO: I think I'll reiterate what I said at the beginning of the year, is we're going to have peaks and valleys here as phones come and phones go. Obviously, the fourth quarter every year due to holiday season, we tend to sell more phones. When we sell more phones, our margins will go down. But I think we've proven that even with the initial launch and now into where we are, we have managed both sides of the balance here. We've gone for growth. We are very concentrated on profitability and free cash flow.

So I'll think we'll wait and see how the fourth quarter comes out, but look, I mean, obviously, we are extremely focused on the profitability and the free cash flow of this business. So we will continue to be disciplined around capital and so forth and deliver what we need to deliver.

BRETT FELDMAN: And just one quick point there since you mentioned cash flow. Maybe I missed it, but I don't think you talked about your CapEx outlook for the rest of the year. I think you said previously it will be flat year over year. Are you still looking for that or maybe a little lighter based on where you are with Wireless?

FRAN SHAMMO: The guidance was $16.5 billion and I said that we would decelerate in the back half of the year and we are still right on track to deliver at that $16.5 billion. So if you do the math for the fourth quarter you'll see that Wireless will be about -- maybe slightly higher than what was in the third quarter but not much. And Wireline will be right on track. So $16.5 billion is where we'll end up.

BRETT FELDMAN: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's move on, please.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Fran, can you just make a comment -- AT&T is out there with -- I guess they ran out of inventory, but they're probably getting more in 4Q on the 3GS for free and also the lower price point on the iPhone 4. Do you guys have any thoughts on the competitive landscape going into or -- we're already in 4Q, but on trying to meet some of those offerings that AT&T is out there with?

And then secondarily, maybe just some commentary around your customers that signed up and have contracts on the iPhone 4, what is the behavior there? Are they coming back to you looking for an upgrade of the 4S and how are you reacting to that? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So two things, Mike. I mean obviously, as we have said and continued to say in the past, when we compete on a [paritable] basis we outperform and have outperformed the entire industry and we don't think that will change. So we will compete extremely heavily even with another provider getting the Apple iPhone, it doesn't really concern us. We will compete and when we compete head-to-head we generally win in that competition. So we'll continue to out execute where we can and continue to deliver both profits and cash flow.

The other thing is that if you look at the net adds, I mean obviously that speaks for itself and we believe that will continue into the fourth quarter. Now as far as customers on the Apple 4 and the 4S, no, what we're seeing is that, as you know, the Apple 4 can be upgraded with software to almost get to almost 95% of what the S has in it. Now it's a long process to get that software upgrade in the phone, but for customers have come in and asked for the upgrade and that's how we're handling that.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Just one more if I can. On the digital voice connection -- it's kind of a random question -- but digital voice connections were 265,000 in the quarter, which is much higher than FiOS Internet and TV. Is there some sort of promotion you're running there or how should we think about that?

FRAN SHAMMO: No, again, Mike, this goes to our strategy of moving people to the new technology. And there's really a two phased approach here. As we move people to FiOS obviously our operating cost structure gets benefited by almost two times because the amount of truck rolls that I have on copper versus FiOS is about two times.

So by moving those customers off copper onto digital FiOS I eliminate the copper truck roll into that home. So it is all around a strategy of eliminating the amount of folks I have on copper and the reduction of our operating expenses in the Wireline business.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Makes sense. Thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Mike. Brad, can we take the next question please.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: A couple questions on Wireless as well. One of the things I think that you guys have looked at doing to help margins is extend the upgrade rates. And I know we've had questions on the iPhone, but can you talk a little bit about some of the things that you've done including eliminating the new every two program and where your upgrade month to upgrade has been moving?

And then secondly, I saw that -- it looks like prepaid, nice or decent growth here this quarter. Can you talk a little bit about the competitive environment around prepaid and what's going on there? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: So on the upgrade rate, we were actually at 8.6% this quarter, so that was slightly down from the past two quarters of 9%. So the upgrade rate is pretty much steady as a course and of course the decline in the upgrade rate this quarter was due to the people anticipating the new iPhone.

But from a change of policy, we changed that mid-year last year where we eliminated the new every two credit and some other things that we did and we really haven't found any impact to the upgrade. What we have found is that not much financial benefit this year but there will be more financial benefit in 2012 by the change of that policy. So we think that was beneficial for us from a longer-term perspective.

On the prepaid side of the house we are starting to see some momentum here. As you know, we launched the Unleashed product on 9/15 which was the same time that we entered into our new distribution agreement with RadioShack. And really too preliminary to tell, but I believe that based on the preliminary effects of what happened since we did launch that product we will see some improvement in prepaid.

And I think I'm hopeful that if you eliminate the tablets from prepaid we will actually show some net add positive growth for the first time in a while in our prepaid voice category. So this month -- this quarter, just to clarify, our prepaid voice was down about 52,000, now that was an improvement from the second quarter which was 179,000.

So the Unleashed product and bringing the distribution of RadioShack has already started to show that improvement in the last 15 days of the quarter. So I think we're going to compete extremely well in the fourth quarter on our Unleashed product.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks a lot.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Chris. Brad, can we move on and take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a clarification -- a couple of clarifications actually, first on CapEx. Fran, are we looking for $9.6 billion-ish in Wireless CapEx for this year if 4Q is going to be a little bit above 3Q? And then where does that go for next year just -- for Wireless specifically?

And then in terms of the impacts to wholesale ARPU, was the $60 million all AT&T -- stuff that you divested to AT&T that have now moved off of your network? Or was it moving revenues from the wholesale category to the retail category within the Alltel subs that you kept? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: On the CapEx side the plan that's for Wireless is the $8.9 billion number and they'll come in on that number. And as far as next year goes, we're not going to talk about 2012 at this point. From a wholesale perspective not all $61 million of that was roaming, I said the majority of it was, there was some decline in our reseller base as well. But that was really just the properties of Alltel that they roamed on us and now they've converted it to their network.

So keep in mind, we sold those properties to AT&T, so they're their properties and they moved the traffic to their network which we planned for, we knew they were going to do it so it's not a surprise.

OPERATOR: Thanks, Jonathan. Brad, let's move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: James Ratcliffe, Barclays Capital.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: If you could talk a little bit about the ARPU impact on voice you're actually seeing directly connected to operating the Smartphones, if customers actually are looking at that as an opportunity to tune their voice. And should we expect eventually Smartphones move toward the flatter part of the S-curve that the pressure on voice could abate? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Actually from a voice perspective, we've actually seen a little bit of an improvement on the dilution of the voice revenue. So we're not seeing any more change right now with people going to Smartphones and talking less on the phone. The dilution of that has been pretty consistent, but obviously the data and the ARPU on the overall customer is increasing. So we had a very nice ARPU increase this quarter and I expect that to continue into the fourth quarter.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, James. Brad, we have time for one last question please.

OPERATOR: Peter Rhamey, BMO Capital Markets.

PETER RHAMEY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: Fran, you talked about scaling efficiencies in Uverse as you've curtailed your network deployment. And of course you're only marketing to just 13 million, 14 million homes right now. I was wondering if you could take us through whether that's going to be a material margin improvement on a go-forward basis in Uverse and whether we'd see it in consolidated results. Or is it just directionally a positive for your Company on Wireline? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: So, Peter, I'm assuming you're talking about FiOS, right?

PETER RHAMEY: FiOS, excuse me, my apologies.

FRAN SHAMMO: Just from an overall perspective, the biggest cost content of FiOS is obviously content. But the profitability of FiOS continues to increase quarter over quarter as we monitor it. The operating income is continuing to improve, so the operating efficiency of FiOS is there. The issue that Lowell has set out for the business, which is the absolute right strategic decision, is move folks off of copper onto FiOS because the operating efficiency of FiOS is far better than the operating cost of the legacy copper network. So I think as we do that we will continue to show the momentum of Wireline overall margin improvement going forward.

PETER RHAMEY: Great, thanks for the answer.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Peter. And thanks, everybody, for joining us this morning. Brad, that concludes our call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | unitel : Sprint Nextel Corp.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c26 : Product Safety | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111104e7al002gy
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,656 words
   PD
22 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions) Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, for Verizon.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning.

I'm John Doherty. With me this morning are Fran Shammo, Verizon's Chief Financial Officer, and Lowell McAdam, Verizon's newly elected President and Chief Executive Officer, effective August 1.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly, and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

Before we get started I would like to point out that our second quarter includes the results of Terremark, since the acquisition closed in early April. As we go through the presentation we will point out the effects on certain growth rates as appropriate.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with some brief overview commentary, adding my perspective to our second-quarter results.

We had a very strong quarter, continuing the positive momentum from earlier this year. Our results clearly demonstrate that we are executing well in our key areas of focus and driving profitable growth.

Our top-line revenue growth accelerated to 6.3% year-over-year, which is a 100 basis point increase from our first-quarter growth rate of 5.3%. This was our strongest quarter of consolidated revenue growth in 2.5 years.

In Wireless, we had an outstanding quarter of customer growth, with strong demand for smartphones and Internet data devices and increasing service revenue, driving total revenue growth of 10.2%. We also saw continued improvement in Wireline revenue, with higher Global Enterprise revenue driven primarily by improvements in strategic services.

EBITDA margins this quarter expanded sequentially in both Wireless and Wireline as we continue to focus on driving top-line growth as well as improving our operating efficiency. In Wireless, our EBITDA service margin expanded 170 basis points from first quarter to 45.4%, an impressive result in light of increased postpaid customer growth, continued smartphone penetration, and Internet device expansion. In Wireline, the EBITDA margin increased by 20 basis points to 23.8%, our fifth consecutive quarter of margin improvement, through a combination of better revenue performance and our continued focus on cost containment.

Our second-quarter earnings of $0.57 per share is a very solid result, up from $0.51 in the first quarter, and demonstrates good execution and the strength of our business model and the strategy that we discussed with you back in January. With that, let's begin a more detailed review of the quarter on slide 4, starting with the consolidated results.

As I just highlighted, we had strong top-line growth in the second quarter, with consolidated revenue increasing to $27.5 billion, up $1.6 billion or 6.3% year-over-year. By capitalizing on the growth opportunities in Wireless, FiOS, and Enterprise strategic services, together with improving our Wholesale business, our consolidated revenue trends continue to be very positive.

Our consolidated EBITDA for the second quarter totaled $9 billion, up 5.2% year-over-year. On a sequential basis, our consolidated EBITDA margin expanded 130 basis points to 32.7%.

In terms of earnings, again as I highlighted in the overview, we had a very strong quarter, reporting $0.57 of EPS without any nonoperational or special items. This compares favorably with $0.51 last quarter and $0.51 in the second quarter of 2010 after making the necessary adjustments for the impact of the divested operations and nonoperational charges in that period. So a with solid performance as far as driving growth to the bottom line, representing an 11.8% increase in EPS on both a sequential and year-over-year basis.

Year-to-date earnings totaled $1.07 per share, up 8.1% over the same time last year. Again, our overall first-half performance confirms the strength of the business and the path that we are on to create long-term shareholder value.

Let's turn to cash flow and capital spending on slide 5. Our cash flow results for the quarter showed a significant sequential improvement, driven by higher revenue growth, margin expansion, and favorable changes in working capital, some of which were timing related, as I indicated last quarter.

In terms of capital expenditures, while we have had a higher level of spending in the first half compared with last year, our additional investments are in support of increased customer volumes and higher revenue growth in Wireless. First-half CapEx this year totaled $8.9 billion, of which $5.4 billion was Wireless.

As we discussed before, we started this year more aggressively in Wireless. To date, our network spending on 3G is well ahead of our capacity requirements for the full year, and we have also spent a bit more on 4G LTE, consistent with our deployment plans. Based on our current forecasts, I expect Wireless capital expenditures to decrease in the second half of 2011.

In Wireline, capital expenditures totaled $3.1 billion for the first half, which is down 5.9% year-over-year. On a consolidated basis, capital spending in the second half will be lower than the first half. For the full year we are targeting capital expenditures to be similar to 2010 at about $16.5 billion.

In terms of free cash flow, we have generated $3.9 billion for the first six months. And although this is lower than recent trends, our cash flow outlook for the balance of the year remains very strong, especially in light of the lower capital requirements.

From a balance sheet perspective, our financial position remains strong. Net debt at the end of June was $47.7 billion, and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio remained at about 1.4 times. We also closed the Terremark acquisition and refinanced about $800 million of their debt at more favorable rates.

On slide 6, we have displayed second-quarter revenues for each of the last three years, which is a good illustration of the transformation and growth of our revenue base. As we pointed out in prior quarters, about 77% of our revenues are in strategic areas of higher growth, up from about 70% two years ago.

With our continued emphasis on advancing the deployment of our 4G LTE network in Wireless, with our all-fiber network in Mass Markets, and through our global reach and cloud-computing capabilities for Enterprise customers, we continue to be well positioned to drive higher top-line growth as the strategic transformation of Verizon continues.

Let's now move into a review of the segments, starting with Wireless on slide 7. Our Wireless business had a very impressive quarter, with accelerated growth in postpaid connections; higher service revenue growth; continued strong postpaid phone ARPU growth; improvement in customer churn; and greater profitability and free cash flow. Total revenue grew to $17.3 billion in the quarter, up 10.2% year-over-year with a 6.6% increase in total service revenue. This year-over-year growth in total service revenue is 30 basis points higher than the 6.3% we reported in the first quarter.

Total quarterly data revenue grew to $5.8 billion, up $1.1 billion or 22.2% year-over-year. Data revenue now represents 39.5% of our total service revenue. As you know, a key driver of data growth has been the increased penetration of smartphones. We continue to make good progress on that front, increasing penetration of our retail postpaid phone base from 32% last quarter to 36% this quarter. Just one year ago, smartphone penetration was 21%.

Within the postpaid category, we are also seeing very strong demand for our Internet data devices, particularly 4G Mobile Hotspots, or MiFi devices and dongles. We are the market leader in these devices, with a large and growing number of these customer connections now representing more than 7.5% of our retail postpaid base.

In many cases these data-only devices represent an additional connection, as a growing number of customers have more than one device. I would also point out that while the revenues are clearly additive to our top line, these devices have a very short payback period, as they typically carry a much lower subsidy than the phones within our portfolio.

Let's take a closer look at our connections growth on slide 8. We are clearly gleaning marketshare in the retail postpaid market, driven by increasing demand for our unmatched portfolio of 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices.

During the second quarter we added 2.2 million total connections, of which nearly 1.3 million were retail postpaid. This was our highest quarter of postpaid additions since the fourth quarter of 2008. Within the 1.3 million postpaid additions about 60% were phones.

In the retail prepaid category we had net additions of 61,000. Of note were 241,000 prepaid tablets, which are contributing to sequential growth in prepaid ARPU.

Outside of the retail category we added about 890,000 wholesale and other connections this quarter. Only a small percentage of these net adds were the typical reseller phone devices. A majority of these additions were vehicle tracking, telematics, and machine-to-machine devices.

While our focus will continue to remain very heavily on the retail postpaid market, which represents more than 80% of our total connections, we're also broadening our portfolio of machine-to-machine connections. While these connections generally have lower monthly revenue profiles, they represent incremental revenue at a very high profit margin.

At our Verizon Innovation center in Waltham, companies, entrepreneurs, and others across the LTE ecosystem are coming together to create the next generation of products and solutions that will deliver the power and possibilities of 4G LTE. We expect this to be an increasing area of growth for us in the future and will continue to expand our M2M offerings.

Total device sales, gross adds, and upgrades were strong once again this quarter. We had postpaid gross adds of more than 3.5 million, which is an increase of more than 20% year-over-year, and about 9% of our retail postpaid customer base upgraded to a new device.

About 90% of the postpaid devices sold this quarter were phones, with roughly 60% of these being 3G and 4G smartphones. Also noteworthy is the fact that half of all Internet data device sales this quarter were 4G LTE.

This strong demand across all product lines is not only increasing our postpaid connections and driving revenue growth, but is also strengthening our industry-leading customer loyalty. Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent, with retail postpaid churn of only 0.89%, our lowest in three years.

Next, let's turn to slide 9 and take a closer look at retail postpaid ARPU. Throughout last year we saw accelerating retail postpaid ARPU growth, starting with 0.6% in the first quarter and steadily ramping to 2.5% in the fourth quarter.

In the first quarter of 2011 our retail postpaid ARPU growth was 2.2%. This quarter, retail postpaid ARPU growth was 1.9%. To enhance the understanding around the growth trend of this blended metric, it is important to note that there are a few different dynamics occurring within the category which, while having an impact on the growth rate of the ARPU metric, are quite positive and strong indicators of future revenue growth.

The first thing to recognize is that retail postpaid phone ARPU is higher than the blended postpaid metric of $54.12. As we have illustrated on the slide, the rate of growth has increased significantly in the past year to 3.2% this quarter, driven of course by the increase in smartphone penetration.

That said, within the postpaid category the significant unit growth in Internet data devices, while adding total service revenue growth and expansion of the category, is having a dilutive effect on the total postpaid ARPU rate of growth at this point in time.

Within the Internet data device category, we are seeing strong demand for our Mobile Hotspot or MiFi devices, dongles, and tablets. While the unit growth is very strong and a key area of focus for us in expanding this category, the average ARPU on these devices is less than $54 and is declining on a year-over-year basis.

We are seeing some migration of 3G customers who were paying about $60 per month to a new 4G device at a $50 per month price point. These pricing plans are intended to expand the category while delivering high profitability, and we already see evidence of this in our second-quarter margin result.

The strategy within this category of devices is to build share so that we can benefit from the significant growth in usage we anticipate in the future. We are confident that the innovation will drive the development of bandwidth-intensive video and data applications that will appeal to consumers and provide utility for Enterprise customers.

By gaining a strong foothold in this market, particularly when you think about the potential for tablets, we have a great opportunity to benefit from this increased video and data usage. Together with our move to tiered pricing, where the next price point for 10 gigabytes is $80 per month, we believe that as we move into 2012 and 2013 these trends will provide ARPU accretion in this category.

To date, the very strong demand for these devices is resulting in strong revenue growth, albeit at lower ARPU than with phones. The other positive element to the sale of 4G LTE devices is the migration of data traffic from our 3G to our 4G network, which is highly desirable from a capital efficiency and profitability perspective and will help us drive improved returns into the future.

Stepping back from the postpaid ARPU metric, it is important to note that total data revenue continues to be sourced primarily from Web and e-mail services, which increased to $3.4 billion this quarter, up more than 35% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up about one-third of data revenue, is still showing growth albeit at a slower pace, at nearly 6% on a year-over-year basis.

With regard to Apple iPhone 4, we activated 2.3 million units this quarter, bringing our total to 4.5 million since we started selling the phone in early February. Sales have been steady and in fact it is one of the top-performing phones on our 3G network in terms of voice quality, with the least number of dropped or lost calls and high overall customer satisfaction.

As far as 4G devices are concerned, we have been very pleased with the sales to date. As you know, we have nine LTE devices in the market today -- three smartphones, two Mobile Hotspots, three laptop dongles, and one tablet for pre-order with availability very soon. During the quarter we sold a total of 1.2 million 4G LTE smartphones and Internet data devices.

In terms of an update on our LTE deployment, we are now providing service in 102 markets covering more than 160 million POPs. We are well on track with our plan to have coverage of 185 million POPs or better by the end of 2011.

Let's conclude our wireless segment review with a discussion about profitability on slide 10. In the second quarter we generated $6.7 billion of EBITDA, an increase of 2.5% year-over-year, and expanded our service EBITDA margin by 170 basis points sequentially to 45.4%.

This margin is a very strong result against the backdrop of an increasing number of device sales. To me, this speaks to our strategy of increasing growth and profitability, and clearly demonstrates how we create long-term shareholder value.

Again, the combination of top-line growth and effective cost controls give me confidence in our ability to sustain our industry-leading profitability and free cash flow generation. We are encouraged by the strong demand for our products and the positive implications for revenue growth.

Going forward you can expect us to effectively deliver both growth and profitability, with a continued strong focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market. Within this market, we will continue to expand the Internet data device category, including tablets, and further increase the penetration of smartphones to drive revenue growth and long-term profitability.

Let's move to our Wireline segment next on slide 11. We continue to see improving revenue trends in our Wireline business. Total revenue in the second quarter was $10.2 billion, a 0.3% year-over-year decline. While the inclusion of Terremark added about 100 basis points of growth, this still marks solid improvement over the 2.2% decline in the first quarter.

In Mass Markets, our FiOS broadband and video products continue to drive a positive shift in our revenue mix. FiOS now accounts for 57% of consumer revenue, up from 48% a year ago. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 20.7% year-over-year, and FiOS ARPU is more than $146.

In Global Enterprise, revenue growth improved to 3.6% year-over-year, driven by strong strategic services growth of 17.8%. Again, the inclusion of Terremark added $98 million to second-quarter Enterprise revenue.

As we have said, strategic services are becoming a much larger portion of our revenue mix, now representing 48% of total Enterprise. Within this category, advanced services like managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications, and our cloud offerings are growing very nicely.

From a profitability perspective, segment EBITDA increased $128 million or 5.5% year over year, resulting in a 140 basis point improvement in our EBITDA margin to 23.8%, primarily as a result of our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010. On a sequential basis this marked the fifth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margin improvement.

Let's take a closer look at our revenue performance, starting with Mass Markets on slide 12. Within the Mass Markets category, consumer revenue at $3.4 billion grew 1.3% versus last year. Consumer ARPU grew to $92.44, an increase of 9.4% from a year ago. Residential access line loss this quarter was 8.2% compared with 10% a year ago.

The continued penetration of our broadband and video products have increase the scale of our FiOS platform, and it is now significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business. We had another solid quarter of customer growth in FiOS TV, adding 184,000 subscribers for a total of 3.8 million TV customers. Our FiOS TV penetration at the end of the quarter was 30%.

On the broadband side we added 189,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter. Our FiOS Internet customer base increased to 4.5 million, representing 34% penetration of homes open for sale.

By adding in our 4.1 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with a total of 8.6 million broadband connections. This reflects an overall increase of 62,000 broadband connections. Our strategy of driving penetration in existing markets has been effective, and we intend to maintain this momentum as penetration continues to improve in all of our FiOS markets.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 13. Within Global Enterprise, strategic services continued to drive the year-over-year improvement, led by very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network, call center, IP communications, and our cloud offerings. As we experienced last quarter, the absolute dollar growth in strategic services outpaced the dollar decline in core Enterprise services.

In Global Wholesale, revenues declined 7.4% year-over-year. As we have discussed, our route rationalization strategy resulted in a substantial decline in international voice revenue of about $111 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis. Since these price changes were initiated in mid-2010, we have one or two more quarters to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.

Absent these effects, second-quarter Global Wholesale revenues declined 2.9% year-over-year. This decline is primarily in domestic voice, where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.

I will wrap up here with a summary slide to highlight our second half of 2011 areas of focus. We had a strong first half of the year, demonstrating solid execution of our strategy while increasing profitability. In the second half of the year you can expect us to continue to drive strong top-line growth in our key strategic areas.

We have great momentum in Wireless and we expect to build on that strength. We are seeing continued demand for our existing 3G and 4G LTE handsets and Internet data devices, with more smartphones, tablets, and data devices in the pipeline.

In FiOS, we will continue to drive higher penetration in our existing markets and capture pent-up demand in new markets. In the Enterprise space, we continue to enhance our position as a leading global provider in the information technology solution space. With the integration of Terremark well underway, we have improved our ability to combine solutions around the network, data center, security, and cloud infrastructure, providing us with a significant opportunity in this high-growth part of the market.

While achieving higher top-line growth is great, we must ensure that this is profitable and sustainable. Our focus is on driving growth in products and services that are not only increasing our market share but also expanding margins and improving profitability.

I can assure you that the business will remain very focused on our cost structure and achieving meaningful cost reductions. The strategic actions and execution of our plans have strengthened our Wireless and Wireline businesses. Our objective is to continue to drive increases in free cash flow from improved operating performance, disciplined capital spending, and the efficient use of working capital.

We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and a very competitive dividend, as this is critical component of shareholder value creation. So I will end there, and it gives me great pleasure to now turn the call over to our newly elected President and Chief Executive Officer, Lowell McAdam.

LOWELL MCADAM, PRESIDENT, COO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thank you, Fran, and good morning, everyone on the call. Today is, obviously, an important day for Verizon as we transition the CEO role from Ivan to me. This has been a very smooth transition by any measure, and we have Ivan to thank for that. He has had a very clear plan from the beginning, and that is to keep the focus on customers and our investors.

I want to be sure that I say to investors on my first day on the job that I understand the obligations that come with this position, and that is to deliver bottom-line results. Ivan has built a tremendous Company over his 18 years of leadership. He has moved this business from a regional wireline voice business to the leading national wireless company and to a global enterprise technology company.

I believe we can accelerate that transformation to a global solutions and networking company. I believe that the pieces are already in place to do that and that we are showing good momentum in our results to further fuel that transformation.

This morning Fran has done his usual highly professional job explaining the results. A few things stand out for me.

First, Wireless continues to show strong growth and industry-leading profitability. We have been through many transitions of devices and technologies. The consistency of results in the face of a highly competitive and dynamic market show the underlying strength of our team and our operations.

Second, the FiOS strategy has proven itself by taking share and gaining revenues. Our Enterprise strategy, fueled by the MCI, the Cybertrust, and now the Terremark acquisition, is producing a highly successful portfolio of services that are being rapidly adopted by our customers.

And finally, I see a cost-control mindset that is driving overall profitability. While my optimism is certainly based on performance, I also see tremendous potential ahead.

First, I am pleased with the organization's structure and the management team that we put in place last October. They are rolling up their sleeves and diving into many opportunities to reengineer our processes and policies. This will streamline our operations to deliver better service to our customers and better cost performance.

Second, we have leading-edge technology platforms in FiOS, LTE, our IP backbone, and now the cloud. These investments will pay dividends now and in the future. As we see far more demand for video, data, and enterprise applications, we are better positioned than any other company to meet evolving customer needs.

Third, we have begun to effectively partner to drive innovation for our customers. Some of the most innovative companies in ours and adjacent industries are working in our existing Innovation Center in Waltham, Massachusetts, and the soon-to-be-open sister center in San Francisco. We see an exciting roadmap of new consumer and business products on the horizon.

Finally, I am pleased with the evolution of our partnership with Vodafone. We are clearly moving from a purely financial partnership to an operating partnership.

We are now facing our largest multinational customers as one team. We have aligned our product and our technology roadmaps, and we are beginning to purchase infrastructure together. All of these actions will begin to enhance our revenue and our cost profiles.

As my last comment I would say we have just finished taking the top 300 leaders of Verizon through a class we call Leading for Shareholder Value. Fran and I teach significant sections of the class, which focuses on how we can drive the business to higher returns. I am very pleased by the reaction of the senior team and their commitment to our success.

We use the term -- there is always a higher gear; meaning, no matter where you are in the business there are opportunities to improve. That is what makes being part of Verizon so exciting and that is what positions us so well for the future.

With that, I will turn the call back to John. Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Lowell. Brad, that concludes our opening segment of the call. Let's open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, great. Thanks. First, congratulations, Lowell, on the new role at Verizon.

LOWELL MCADAM: Thank you, John.

JOHN HODULIK: I guess the question is for Fran. I am trying to maybe get a sense for the trends in Wireless ARPU and basically what happened between the 2.8% growth in March and what we saw in the first quarter. It sounds like -- or second quarter.

It sounds like it is a mix -- it's a combination of increased mix of connected devices and some ARPU pressure within each category. Specifically you mentioned the migration from 3G to 4G putting pressure on ARPU because those are lower-priced devices. If you could give us a sense for maybe the magnitude of which one was the larger of the drivers.

And two, maybe how far through that migration of customers from 3G to 4G are we? How much more pressure are you expecting from that specific issue? And maybe give us a sense for what you expect for ARPU trends going forward on the postpaid side.

FRAN SHAMMO: Good, John. Thank you. So this is -- I am glad the question came because this is one that is important. If you look at -- we have actually disclosed the new metric that we now call Phone ARPU, which consists of our smartphones and our feature phones. Again this quarter we saw a very good uptick from feature phone to smartphone, about 53% with the Apple phone, transforming from the feature phone into the smartphone. So we are seeing that 3.2% continuing into the future.

I think the important thing here though is on the Internet devices. It is important to know because, if you go back to October of last year when the market changed pricing on all of Internet devices, we actually launched Internet pricing at $35 3-gig, $50 for 5-gig, and $80 for 10-gig. As we saw the market and we expanded the market in this category with also the innovation of the 4G LTE network and now all of the devices that we have on that, in May we actually pulled the $35 price point from the marketplace.

So that was part of the contribution of why we saw an acceleration of the dilution in the Internet ARPU. We have now since pulled that; so now the entry point is $50, stepping up to $80. So we have made that change and I think that in itself will start to see improvement in the third quarter.

But needless to say, the amount of devices and the volume within the 4G network we are very pleased with, with moving 1.2 million devices this quarter. As you said, John, we are seeing folks who are coming off of their contracts on 3G, moving over to the 4G, and stepping down from their legacy pricing of the $60 and $70 price points down to the $50 price point.

But I also want to make sure that it's important to realize that these devices are much lower subsidy; and the profitability on these devices are extremely high. So it is the right thing to do. We are expanding the category.

We are seeing the expansion with our tablets, with our 4G network. With tablets we now have our first 4G tablet coming to marketplace; it can be pre-ordered. And we think that that will also make a dynamic change here.

The other thing that I want to talk about ARPU and something that I have mentioned before is, because of the dynamics of the industry and the way it is changing, we now have a number of tablets being sold as prepaid. So what you saw this quarter is a sequential accretion in the prepaid ARPU because we are placing more and more tablets onto a prepaid pricing system.

The other thing that is interesting to note is more than 50% of these prepaid customers are buying at $35 and higher price points, even on the prepaid plan. So the strategy is working. I think we will continue to expand this, but I do think that we will see continued pressure in the Internet device category.

JOHN HODULIK: So, Fran, do you expect total service revenue growth to continue to accelerate from here?

FRAN SHAMMO: I believe we are going to see continued acceleration of service growth.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: John, this is Lowell. Just to -- if I look back over my 20-some years on the Wireless side, every time we brought in new devices, we brought in new use cases, we saw nice expansion of the market. And I think that is just what you see going on here today.

In some ways it is similar to when we all went to family share plans. There was a big concern over what ARPU was going to do, but we expanded the market nicely, great profitability. And I think that is exactly what is going on here now. So we feel very good about the position.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, John. Brad, can we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning and congratulations as well, Lowell. You talked about the Vodafone partnership and opportunities.

Can you talk about the dividend potential, where the negotiations stand, and what sort of timing and type of payment we should be expecting there? Thank you.

LOWELL MCADAM: Sure. I will let Fran talk specifically about the dividend here, but I think that Vittorio's and my goal over the last 18 months have really been to try to turn the temperature down a little bit and to improve the bottom line of the relationship. So, we have really focused -- because we knew LTE was on the horizon here, we started out by focusing on aligning the technology roadmaps. That will go all the way through purchasing network equipment together, as they are a little bit behind us because they don't have the spectrum for LTE; but they are beginning that ramp now.

We also have heard very clearly from the large Enterprise customers that combining the assets of Verizon business -- meaning the global IP backbone and their data center infrastructure, and that is -- an exclamation point went on that with the Terremark purchase -- that we could provide a global fixed, and mobile solution. So we have now -- we have teams that it is one team made up of Verizon and Vodafone employees that face our top 50 accounts, and we are going to be expanding that very quickly.

There's a number of other smaller, but those are the main ones. Now regarding the dividend, we have been very clear that there will be a dividend. Why don't I let Fran just talk a little bit about the mechanics?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, thanks, Lowell. I think, Simon, at this point I have made my comments on the dividend. I don't think there is really anything else to comment on, on the dividend.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Simon. Brad, can we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Fran, I might have missed it, but did you comment on what you are seeing in terms of LTE speeds and maybe overall monthly data usage?

Then on the margin front you had a great sequential growth here, about 130 basis points on a consolidated basis. Could you talk about maybe the trends over the next few quarters and where you think you can be longer term at this point?

You have had almost a decade of restructuring the business and a lot of, obviously, upgrade to the infrastructure. And you're still substantially below where the margins used to be historically. Thanks a lot.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, Tim, on the LTE speeds we are seeing consistent from what we had disclosed before. We don't get into disclosure of any 4G LTE device usage at this point. Again I think it is too early to really get a good average on what those speeds will be amongst all the different devices that we have there.

As far as on the consolidated margin basis, I think I will be consistent to say that our business strategy and what we disclosed back in January, I think it proves that we have proven that the strategy is working. We are expanding the market. We are growing our top line. And I think that the margin will follow here based on what Lowell just said, where our main points of concentration are, which is the top-line growth in all of our different business segments and taking costs out of the business.

TIM HORAN: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Tim. Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hey, thanks. Good morning. Maybe a couple questions, first on capital spending. You obviously talked about flat this year.

I am just wondering from here if there are opportunities. Obviously FiOS spending starts to wind down. Would you expect to reinvest the declines in FiOS spending into either Wireless or Enterprise? Or do we continue to have an outlook of flat to maybe down capital spending as we look beyond the year?

Then second, just on Enterprise, maybe some of the SME trends. Choppy macro data points from here. Do they give you any pause about the momentum you are seeing in that business as you look at the balance of the year? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, I will answer the first one, Jason; I will let Lowell take the Enterprise one. On the capital spending side I think we will just stick with 2011 at this point.

As you know, we spent $8.5 billion worth in the units for a total of $8.9 billion for the first half. As I said back in January we would be a little different this year because historically we have always kind of accelerated our capital expend through the year. And I was very clear at the beginning to say we would have an acceleration in the first half and then a decline, because we felt the capacity of EV-DO deal was built out; and we still are very comfortable with that projection.

So you should see that decline coming in the second half of this year. I think at this point we know that we still have LFA requirements on the FiOS build of about 1 million homes for the next two years. So I don't see any major change on premise pass perspective at least for the next two years out.

We said that we would commit on passing 18 million homes. And Lowell and I have said that we would stop there; and then based on penetration rates into the future, then we will make those decisions. So at this point we will stick with the flat for 2011, and we will come back later and talk about the outer years.

LOWELL MCADAM: On the Enterprise question, Jason, and macro trends, I would love to be able to tell you that we see significant improvement in the overall economic outlook. But we can't really say that at this point.

What we see is a shift. Whereas two years ago you were seeing a lot of enterprise expansion, now we are actually able to capitalize on the cost-reduction plans of these enterprises. So I think that is why cloud is picking up significantly for us, as well as some of our other strategic services, because the IT department is looking for an opportunity to take advantage of our scale and our applications. So they are shifting -- we are seeing some nice shifts of business.

But as far as overall, do we see the economy coming out of this flat plateau we have seen? No, I can't say that we see that.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Jason. Brad, could we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks for taking my questions; and Lowell, congratulations. Just coming back to the Wireline side, can you help frame the margin opportunity for Wireline both over the next couple quarters and next few years? Especially in front of the labor negotiations; and maybe within that context you could give us an update there. Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay, why don't I just make a comment -- this is Lowell -- on the labor side, Mike? And then Fran can add additional thoughts on the --.

I think the tone is good with the union so far. We have lots of dialogue. I think they have been very professional. We understand and I think -- I won't speak for them; but it is clear that when you see the core access line decline and you see the pressures on the Wireline business, that some things do need to change.

Yes, we have asked for some changes in our work rules; and we have asked for them to consider coming on to the general employee and management medical plans. Those are probably the big issues.

I think we are just coming into the time where we enter into serious negotiations as we get close to the August 6 date. I am optimistic that we will be able to work something through that will be fair and equitable to both sides.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, Michael, on the margin side I think I have been pretty consistent, and we have delivered consecutive margin improvement for the last five quarters. I will commit again that our business strategy is to continue to improve the Wireline margin through top-line growth as well as cost containments.

As Lowell always tells me, there's plenty of pots of gold out there to go after in the Wireline business. So we will continue to take costs out and really concentrate on those strategic revenue growth opportunities within the Wireline business consisting of FiOS, the Enterprise side, and especially with the acquisition of Terremark.

So I think our plan is there. We just have to execute on that strategy.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Can you disclose the ending net debt balance for Verizon Wireless?

FRAN SHAMMO: For this quarter it is [$7.3 billion] (corrected by company after the call).

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Mike. Brad, let's move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. And Lowell, congrats again from our side. Two questions if I could, real quick.

Number one, even stripping out Terremark from the Global Enterprise, it was a nice healthy tick up in 2Q versus 1Q. But we didn't really see that in the small/medium business segment. Could you talk about the different dynamics that are driving those kind of businesses in different directions right now?

The second if I could, just quickly on the iPhone and LTE sales. Could you talk about what percentage was new to the base and what percentage was upgrades? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, Dave. Thanks. So with that, on the small business side -- and I am assuming that you are -- let me just get a clarification. You are looking at the really the SOHO business within the Wireline segment, which was actually down by 5.2% this quarter.

I think what is happening here is that we are seeing additional line loss in that segment. Now the actual Internet and broadband connection and that segment was actually positive for us this quarter. But we did see an acceleration of line loss.

I think what I would contribute it to is, if you look at the national startup of small businesses, we are down on a national basis over 50% from where we were last year on startups. So I think it is inflection of we don't have as much coming in the door to offset that line loss. The line loss is not increasing, but it is consistent.

So I thought we -- I think we saw a little bit of a different dynamic in that zero to 20 SOHO business which created that acceleration there.

But it is nothing that I am overly concerned about. It is not a big portion of our portfolio. But it is definitely something that Lowell, I, and the team are very focused on that we need to turn here in the future.

Then on the iPhone-LTE mix, the iPhone upgrade to new was pretty consistent with the first quarter -- 22% to 23% new, and the rest were upgrades.

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks, guys.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, David. Brad, let's move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMorgan.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys. Thanks. Wondering if we can dig in a little bit on the handsets. First, if you could talk about the smartphone mix of handsets overall. At the beginning of the year we talked about that going up to 50%, and it doesn't look like it is going to quite make it. Do you see anything in the second half to ramp up that upgrade rate to get the smartphones higher?

Then second, if you could help us on the LTE of 1.2 million. Can you give us any kind of break out between phones and data devices? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Let me take the first part of that one. I think, Phil, the handset and smartphone mix, we like the gross add mix that we see coming in here. We are in the roughly 60% range.

We are probably what I would view as maybe a quarter behind what we had talked about in January, primarily because we expected an iPhone 5 refresh sometime this summer.

We don't know when the next one is going to come out. You will have to ask Apple that. But we expect that probably sometime in the fall, and I think you will see a significant jump there when we get to that point.

On the LTE side, I can't tell you how pleased I am at how the device manufacturers have stepped up with all kinds of devices. We are beginning to see even in the machine-to-machine space LTE modules, because the latency is so much better than we have in a 3G environment. Our fourth-quarter lineup is going to be very robust.

You have seen -- you have gotten a little bit of a peek at that through devices like the Samsung Charge. So the screen density is so significantly better than what we have seen in the past.

So I think we are going to have probably in my entire career the best fourth-quarter lineup of devices I have seen, which will shift that mix that you talked about.

PHIL CUSICK: Great. Thanks, Lowell.

FRAN SHAMMO: Then, Phil, on the -- just the breakout of LTE, what I will say, because I'm not going to break out individual devices here. But what I will say is if you take our 4G devices and our Apple device, it accounted for 69% of our net adds for the quarter. So that is definitely executing on the strategy that we laid out for our growth this year.

PHIL CUSICK: Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Phil. Brad, let's move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: Michael McCormack, Nomura.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hey, guys. Thanks, just maybe digging a little deeper on the Wireline Enterprise trends, can you give us some sense for what you are seeing at the customer level as far as demand goes? Then also in the competitive environment, the pricing behavior among the bigger carriers.

Then on the Wholesale side, do you guys anticipate that you can get that revenue stream to something that is more flattish over time given the changes you have made?

Then I guess lastly on the cash flow side, Fran, what should we be thinking about? It is probably a little early to be discussing this, but the employee retirement benefits on a going-forward basis, and then deferred taxes, given bonus depreciation rolling off. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, Mike. So on the Enterprise side and the trends I think what we are seeing is we are continuing to see improvement in our trends from an overall business perspective. And obviously with the Terremark acquisition we have really put a sounding board out there for ourselves in the cloud space. You saw that we split out that revenue of Terremark, which grew almost at a 30% clip year-over-year. So I think that strategy is there.

What we are seeing, quite honestly, is a lot of Enterprise customers are coming to us and asking us what solutions do we have in order to cut their costs. Obviously a strategy around cloud is really the pivotal point of how we can cut Enterprise costs. Now, the major concern they obviously have is around the security of that cloud.

We think that being number one in security and the portfolio that we have from our Cybertrust acquisition and what we just acquired from Terremark, we really do believe we are second to none in the marketplace as far as security expertise. So I think that is starting to build momentum here both on the overall Enterprise space and actually on a global basis for us.

On the Wholesale side, as I said, this international voice you saw this quarter -- we declined down to 7.4% from where we were about 11% in the last two quarters. I think we will continue to make progress there as we get back to an apples-to-apples comparison.

As I said before I am bullish that said -- if these trends continue I do still think that in the fourth quarter we could be back on a positive growth for the entire Wireline segment for us.

Then from a cash flow perspective and income tax and all that, that was all built into our forecast for free cash flow. As I said in the first quarter, we were low because of some timing-related issues. We came back to the range I gave; and I am confident that with the decrease in our capital spend we will deliver higher cash flow in the second half of the year.

MICHAEL MCCORMACK: Great and congrats, Lowell.

LOWELL MCADAM: Thank you, Mike.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's move on to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks very much, guys. Two quick questions if I may. So as you strengthen your operating relationship with Vodafone, can you get all the benefits that there are to extract from that relationship just with this kind of a partnership? Or would there be merits to potentially thinking about combining these companies at some point in the future?

Secondly, just going back to the smartphone question for a second, it looks like your share of the smartphone market is coming in a little weaker than we expected. I am wondering how much you think AT&T offering a $50 iPhone dampened your capture of the smartphone market?

It sounds like you think with the launch of an iPhone 5 and a strong lineup of devices in the fourth quarter you should really see your smartphone share accelerate. I just want to see if -- make sure that that is what you expect. Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay, so there is a lot in there too, Jonathan. I don't have a lot more to say on the smartphone versus what I said earlier. I do think it is about a quarter behind what we had talked about in January. So given the delay of the iPhone 5 is more than a quarter, I think we have actually performed quite well.

AT&T is a strong competitor, and they have done a lot of things to be a strong competitor. But I like porting ratios. I like our growth rate versus theirs. So I think what you are seeing is a result of a very dynamic market.

Regarding Vodafone, look, I don't see a combination here. I think that we can do what we need to do in our markets; they can do what they need to do in their markets; we can leverage each other's scale. But I would not send any kind of messages here that something like that is immediately on the horizon.

I think we need to show that we can do a good operating partnership here. Vittorio and I see a ton of opportunities in that particular area, and we will cross whatever bridges are ahead of us when we get to them.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Great. Thanks very much.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Jonathan. Brad, we have time for one more question please.

OPERATOR: James Ratcliffe, Barclays Capital.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Morning, folks. Thanks are taking the questions; and Lowell, congratulations again.

LOWELL MCADAM: Thanks, James.

JAMES RATCLIFFE: Two quick, if I could. One on Wireless. Are you expecting to see any churn impact from launching usage-based pricing as customers become loath to give that up by moving to another carrier?

Secondly, can you talk through a little bit about what margin impact you are seeing from the growth of FiOS? Both leveraging the existing infrastructure with greater revenue, and offsetting the higher operating costs associated with a larger portion of revenue coming from video. Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Great, James. Let me take the question on tiered pricing and then Fran can come back and talk about the margins. In my view is that tiered pricing is like gravity. The industry has to get there because there is not unlimited spectrum.

When you look at the utility of the devices that we offer and the video demand that is going to be hitting the devices, it is inevitable. Now each carrier will be in a slightly different position because of their spectrum holdings and their capacity on their networks. So I think over time there may be some that hold out longer with unlimited; and I wouldn't be surprised if unlimited comes back in and out from a promotional perspective for carriers to balance growth.

But in my view, it is, as I said -- like it's inevitable. So do I expect to see some churn impacts? Sure.

There will be some users that are very high users that will want to move between carriers to find whatever opportunity they can to continue that. But our strength has always been the best network and the best customer service. And at 2 gigs, well over 95% of our customers are underneath that demand; so I don't think there will be tremendous disruption.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, and then James, on the FiOS margin, what I will say, this -- is we continue to make improvements operationally in the FiOS whether it be on the capital cost of passing a home and a capital cost of connecting the home. And then operationally we are still performing very, very well compared to core, especially around repair and maintenance because the FiOS network operates pretty efficiently.

So, I think overall what I will disclose is that FiOS margins continue to improve. I think it is based on two things.

One is we are very concentrated on the top-line growth of our revenue per customer. We have launched FlexView. We have rebundled where you can build your own bundle now, and we are seeing some nice uptick in people varying whether they want higher speed or less bundling in TV packages. And now also with our forthcoming release of our connected home product around security and energy monitoring and electricity and all.

So I think it is twofold. It is the operational cost efficiency and building the top-line growth of FiOS.

JAMES RATCLIFFE: Great. Thank you very much.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, James. Thanks to all of you for joining us this morning. Brad, that concludes our call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110805e77m001rx
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,047 words
   PD
21 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations for Verizon.

   TD
JOHN DOHERTY, SVP OF IR, VERIZON: Thanks, Brad. Good morning and welcome to our first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm John Doherty. With me this morning is Fran Shammo, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial and operating information, the investor quarterly and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website. I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.

Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC which are available on our website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.

Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to a newly formatted financial and operating information file that we've made available to you on our website. In addition to providing two years and eight quarters of historical financial information, we've added some new customer and connection metrics in wireless and wireline which better reflect the trends in our business.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Fran Shammo.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. At our investor meeting in late January, we talked about our 2011 priorities, our strong focus on business plan execution and translating revenue opportunities into profitable growth and share-owner value.

In looking at our first-quarter results, I would say we are off to a very strong start. Our wireless business performed extremely well, further solidifying our leadership position in the industry. Our 4G LTE network deployment is going very well, and our network performance has exceeded even our own very high expectations. In one independent test after another, our network's ability to deliver video and data with exceptional speed and performance has been unmatched.

Possibly even more impressive is the speed with which products and services are being developed for LTE. Through our LTE rollout, we have positioned ourselves on the leading edge of a whole new phase of wireless market development.

Our first-quarter wireless results once again demonstrate our ability to effectively manage growth and sustain profitability. We had a very strong quarter of device sales with 906,000 retail postpaid customer net additions. In a period of less than eight weeks, we activated 2.2 million iPhones, and in two weeks, we activated more than 260,000 of our first 4G LTE smartphone, the HTC ThunderBolt, at the premium price of $249.99.

In addition, we added about 250,000 4G Internet devices to our retail postpaid base in the quarter and quickly sold out of iPad 2 tablets in early March, so we built good momentum throughout the quarter.

Our wireless service EBITDA margin of 43.7% is a solid result; and once again demonstrates our ability to effectively manage the customer acquisition and retention costs associated with gaining market share and increasing smartphone penetration while sustaining our industry-leading profitable growth profile going forward.

In wireline, our first-quarter results showed continued improvement on the top line, with sequential EBITDA margin expansion for the fourth consecutive quarter. Our improved year-over-year performance was driven by continued strength in FiOS and lower line loss rates, resulting in consumer revenue growth of 1.9%, as well as accelerated growth of 12.8% in enterprise strategic services revenue.

In terms of cost management, while the first quarter has some seasonal pressures, we did realize the cost benefits of our 16,000 workforce reductions from last year.

On the strategic front, we closed the Terremark acquisition on April 11, and significantly improved our competitive position in the rapidly evolving managed hosting and cloud services space.

With these highlights as a backdrop, let's begin a more detailed review of the quarter on slide 4, starting with a look at consolidated results.

Consolidated revenue growth in the first quarter accelerated to 5.3% year over year, up sharply from 2.3% growth in the fourth quarter. Total revenue growth in wireless increased to 10.2%. And while much of this growth was driven by equipment sales in this quarter, we do expect to see future benefit from these sales in subsequent quarters in terms of higher recurring revenue streams.

So, top-line growth is what we expected, and we were on track to meet our full-year revenue guidance of between 4% and 8% annual growth. Our consolidated EBITDA for the first quarter totaled $8.5 billion, up 3.8% year over year.

The 31.4% EBITDA margin is down about 50 basis points from a year ago, primarily the result of a higher acquisition, and retention costs, in wireless. Again, our expectation is for solid margin performance throughout the year, with some fluctuation in quarters featuring highly successful new device launches.

In terms of earnings, we reported $0.51 for the quarter without any non-operational or special items to point out. This compares with $0.48 in the first quarter a year ago, after adjustments for the impact of divested operations and nonoperational charges in that period.

With our 4G deployment well underway, our capitalized interest will be significantly lower this year. As a result, wireless interest expense will reflect about $150 million for each quarter this year. In terms of income taxes, the effective income tax rate attributable to Verizon for the first quarter was 30%. For the full year 2011, we are anticipating an effective tax rate to be in a range consistent with the past three quarters, post the Frontier and Alltel divestitures. Both of these items were fully contemplated in the overall earnings guidance we provided in January. With first-quarter growth of 6.3%, we are on track to meet our stated objective of 5% to 8% growth off an adjusted 2010 base of $2.08 per share.

Let's turn to cash flow and capital spending on the next slide. In addition to the higher capital spending this quarter, cash flows from operations were impacted by higher acquisition and retention costs in wireless due to the iPhone, and the first-quarter funding of our full-year pension obligation, which was $392 million. In addition, the first half of last year included cash flows from the divested properties.

In terms of free cash flow, we generated $672 million in the first quarter, and although this is lower than our recent trend, our cash flow outlook for the year remains very strong. Many of the cash flows were timing, and this quarter did not impact our cash management planning for the year.

I would also say that there is no change in our thinking with regard to the timing of a Verizon Wireless dividend to its parent companies, which we believe will begin in 2012.

In the first quarter, total CapEx was $4.4 billion, of which $2.7 billion was wireless. While we expect overall capital spending in 2011 to be essentially flat compared to 2010, we have started the year more aggressively in wireless, spending a bit more early in the year on 4G LTE, consistent with our overall deployment plans and continuing to add growth capacity to our 3G network. Looking forward, we will continue to expand our 4G LTE footprint and invest the necessary capital in 3G to stay ahead of the data demand curve.

Wireline capital of $1.5 billion was down 6.4% year over year. I would point out that we started last year in a very conservative manner, prudently spending only $3.4 billion in the first quarter, given the higher level of economic uncertainty at that time.

In 2011, we will be very disciplined in the terms of overall capital spending matching our spending with growth opportunities.

Our balance sheet remains strong, and we ended the quarter with net debt of $47.2 billion and a net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of about 1.4 times.

On slide 6, we have displayed first-quarter revenues for each of the last three years, which is a good illustration of the transformation and growth of our revenue base. At our investor meeting in January, we talked about this changing revenue mix and how we have organized ourselves around the growth markets of the future based on a foundation of superior, high IQ networks that provide the platforms for innovation that we think are unmatched in our industry.

Today, 77% of our revenues are in higher growth areas, a sharp increase over the course of the last two years. As we look forward, we are big believers that our high IQ networks give us a strong strategic position and put us at the center of the trends that are driving growth in our industry.

In all these strategic areas, with our continued emphasis on advancing the deployment of our 4G LTE network in wireless, with our all-fiber network in mass markets, and through our ever-improving global and cloud computing capabilities for enterprise customers, we are well-positioned to drive higher top-line growth.

Let's now move into a review of the segments starting with wireless on slide 7.

As I said earlier, our wireless business had a very impressive quarter, with growth in retail customers and ARPU driving service revenue growth and profitability. Total revenue grew to $16.9 billion in the quarter, up 10.2% year over year, with total service revenue up 6.3%. With the majority of our device sales occurring in the back half of the first quarter, we are expecting to see higher service revenue growth in the second quarter. In terms of retail postpaid ARPU growth, while we reported year-over-year growth of 2.2% in the first quarter, the month of March was 2.8% higher than last year, which is a good indication of increased revenue and ARPU growth in the second quarter.

In terms of new connections, we added a total of 1.8 million this quarter, with 906,000 net retail postpaid customers and 897,000 wholesale and other connections, including machine to machine. While our focus continues to be very much on the retail postpaid market, which continues to be the vast majority of our customer base, we are also broadening our portfolio of machine-to-machine connections in a number of areas -- vehicle tracking, meter reading, and alarm monitoring, to name a few. And we expect this to be an area of growth for us.

We generated $6.3 billion of EBITDA in the first quarter, up 1.7% year over year. And while growth in this quarter was impacted by acquisition and retention costs, our service EBITDA margin of 43.7% remains industry-leading. We believe that our wireless EBITDA margins, while they may fluctuate in a given quarter related to successful device introductions, will end up in the mid-40% range for the year.

The incremental recurring revenue from smartphone and 4G device sales will help to mitigate the higher acquisition and retention costs. In addition, as I noted in January, we have also identified more than $1 billion in cost-saving opportunities in wireless this year. I am confident that our wireless team will meet this challenge and achieve these savings.

Let's take a closer look at data growth and device sales on slide 8. Total data revenue grew $1 billion or 22.3% year over year, and now represents 38% of total service revenue. A key driver of data growth in 2011 will be the increased penetration of smart phones in our retail postpaid phone base. To that end, we made good progress, ending the quarter with penetration of 32%.

Roughly 60% of all phones sold in the quarter were smartphones, up from 36% just one year ago. 65% of all smartphone sales were new to the category, meaning they were existing customers with feature phones or new Verizon customers.

With regard to the iPhone specifically, 48% of upgrades were new to the smartphone category, meaning the $30 monthly data plan is incremental revenue. About 22% of our iPhone activations represent new Verizon customers.

In terms of 4G LTE, we've seen strong demand for the HTC ThunderBolt and for the PC cards. On March 29, we introduced our first 4G Mobile HotSpot device, and this past Monday, we announced the availability of our second one. We think these 4G Mobile HotSpots will be very popular with customers, as they essentially allow any WiFi-enabled device to function as a 4G LTE networked device.

We expect demand for our 4G LTE products to strengthen as more smartphones, tablets and hotspots are added to our device portfolio. This includes the recent launch of the Novatel and Samsung mobile hotspots, as well as the addition of new 4G LTE smartphones in April, May and beyond. Clearly, our LTE network performance, our continued buildout and the successful early product launches are having a very positive impact on the development and strength of the entire LTE ecosystem.

As customer acceptance and enthusiasm for smartphones, tablets, and all kinds of connected devices gains momentum and becomes more integral to the people's personal and work lives, innovation will drive this entire category and expand the overall market.

With regard to the further expansion of our LTE footprint, we announced 38 markets in our initial launch in December, covering about 110 million POPs. Since then, we've announced more than 100 additional markets in places like Detroit, Memphis, Milwaukee, Louisville, Indianapolis, Sacramento, and Honolulu, to name just a few. By the end of the year, we plan to be in about 175 markets covering more than 185 million POPs. Let's take a closer look at ARPU next on slide 9.

Throughout last year, we saw accelerating postpaid ARPU growth, starting with 0.6% year-over-year growth in the first quarter and steadily ramping to 2.5% growth in the fourth quarter. In the first quarter of 2011, retail postpaid ARPU growth was 2.2%. We attribute this is to a few factors, but most notably to light sales in the early part of the quarter in anticipation of the iPhone 4 debut on our network in February.

As I said earlier, with much stronger device sales from that point forward, our exit rate for ARPU growth heading into the second quarter was much higher at 2.8%. Data revenue continues to be sourced primarily from Web and e-mail services, which increased to $3.2 billion this quarter, up more than 38% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up about one third of data revenue, is still showing growth, up 7% on a year-over-year basis.

At the end of the quarter, we had a total of 6.1 million Internet devices in our postpaid-base, with 364,000 net adds in the first quarter, driven by MiFi devices and 4G PC cards.

As you would expect, our churn metrics for this quarter were excellent. Our retail postpaid churn was 1.01%, improving by 4 basis points year over year. We are encouraged by the strong demand exiting the quarter and the positive implications for increased revenue and ARPU. You can expect us to effectively deliver both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market, increasing the penetration of smart phones, and selling more Internet devices, which will drive continued data revenue growth.

Let's move to our wireline segment next on slide 10. As I said earlier, we are seeing an improvement in revenue trends. The 2.2% year-over-year decline in the first quarter is 60 basis points better than the 2.8% decline last quarter. And if we exclude the effects of the international wholesale pricing change, total wireline revenues were down 0.7% year over year.

On the consumer side, our FiOS broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix. FiOS now accounts for 54% of consumer revenue, up from 45% a year ago. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 23.7% year over year and FiOS ARPU is more than $146.

On the global enterprise side, we had positive year-over-year growth, driven by strong strategic services growth of 12.8%. As with FiOS in the consumer market, strategic services are transforming our revenue mix, now representing 46% of total enterprise. Within this category, advanced services like managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications, and our cloud offerings are growing very nicely.

From a profitability perspective, segment EBITDA increased $211 million or 9.7%, resulting in a 250 basis point year-over-year improvement in our EBITDA margin to 23.6%. The main reason behind the improvement was our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010 which help reduce our overall cost of labor.

Sequentially, we had a fourth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margin improvement, with an increase of 10 basis points to 23.6%. We achieved this through a combination of revenue stabilization and effective cost management, as the typical first-quarter cost pressures were offset by the effect of the workforce reductions.

Our goal is to achieve margin expansions in 2011 through continuous improvement throughout the year. And while it is unlikely that our workforce reductions in 2011 will come close to what we experienced last year, our focus on reducing our cost structure will be vigilant.

Let's take a closer look at the mass markets on slide 11. Within the mass markets category, consumer revenue of $3.4 billion grew 1.9% versus last year. Consumer ARPU grew to $90.55, an increase of 10.5% from a year ago.

The continued penetration of our broadband and video products have increased the scale of our FiOS platform and it is now significant enough to more than offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business.

We had another solid quarter of customer growth in FiOS TV, adding 192,000 subscribers for a total of 3.7 million TV customers. Our FiOS TV penetration at the end of the quarter was 29%.

On the broadband side, we added 207,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter. Our FiOS Internet customer base increased to 4.3 million, representing 33% penetration of homes open for sale. By adding in our 4.2 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with a total of 8.5 million broadband connections. This reflects an overall increase of 98,000 broadband connections, which marks our best sequential growth since the second quarter of 2009.

As I have noted in the past, our customer satisfaction ratings are very high and our churn rates are very low. Our renewed focus on driving penetration in existing markets has been effective, and we are pleased with the overall progress in FiOS. We are off to a good start this year, and our pipeline for TV service is up 43% year over year.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 12. While we are seeing some signs of improvement, revenues in the business market continue to be challenged by economic pressures. Global enterprise revenue was up 1% year over year. Strategic services drove the year-over-year improvement, led by a very strong growth in advanced services such as managed network, call center, IP communications, and our cloud offerings. As I have said, this category of services is becoming a larger part of our revenues, and we are incenting our sales force to sell these solutions to our enterprise customers.

As we experienced last quarter, the absolute dollar growth in strategic services outpaced the dollar decline in core enterprise services.

In global wholesale, revenues declined 11.2% year over year. As we've discussed, our route rationalization strategy has resulted in a sustainable decline in international voice revenue, worth $162 million this quarter on a year-over-year basis. Since these price changes were initiated in mid 2010, I would say we have a few more quarters to work through before the comparative impact of these actions moderates.

Absent these effects, first-quarter global wholesale revenues declined 5% year over year. This decline is primarily in domestic voice where we continue to experience secular pressures and lower usage volumes.

I will wrap up here with the chart we used at our investor meeting in January, showing the keys to success in terms of executing our business model. We had a solid first quarter and a quality start to the year. Our early performance gives us great confidence that we are on track to meet our financial objectives and continue to position ourselves for future growth and profitability.

As I mentioned earlier, we have built great momentum and have entered the second quarter in very good shape. We are seeing continued demand for our Apple products and 4G LTE devices, with more smartphones, tablets, and Internet devices coming to market shortly. As such, we expect service revenue growth and ARPU accretion to accelerate with each quarter this year. Our FiOS customer pipeline is very healthy, and we are very excited to add Terremark, one of the premier assets in hosting and cloud services to our portfolio of global assets and capabilities, enhancing our competitive position around the cloud opportunity and contributing to our growth.

I will stop here and turn it back to John, so we can open up the call to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Fran. Brad, let's open it up for questions please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks. Good morning. First on postpaid ARPU, Fran, you had some helpful commentary on the exit rates at 2.8% in March. I guess what that implies though is that the entry rates in January were probably roughly 1.5% growth, which is a step down from the fourth-quarter rates. And it would seem to imply to me that the 4G laptop cards you launched in December, I guess it's logical that you would have over indexed sales here early in the quarter, which generally carry a little bit lower ARPU.

I'm wondering if you can offer granularity. Is that what happened? Just trying to put a finer point on sort of the progress to the quarter you had on ARPU.

And the second question on wireless margins, you talked about lumpiness in margins attached to handset launches; obviously two big launches in the quarter with iPhone and ThunderBolt, but it was only a partial quarter for both. So does that mean that in Q2 you would expect a bit of an incremental margin dilution as we get a full quarter of those devices? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Jason. Okay, so let's address the ARPU first. So, if you look at what we did, we came out of December at 2.5%, as I said in the previous comment. We had a very soft January. We continue to maintain our upgrades. If you recall when we launched the iPhone initially, we had a week of just upgrades to our current base, which we felt was important to show our loyalty to our customers who stayed with us even though we didn't have the iPhone.

And then we launched the iPhone, and we had people who were waiting for that device. So again, the first half of the quarter was soft. There was really no incremental ARPU if you will in that first half, given that sales were low and upgrades continued. But as we launched the iPhone, and if you think about it, it was only a half a quarter, but it's also important to realize that when we launched the iPhone, initially, we only launched it through our direct channel and a couple major retailers.

And then in the beginning of March, we launched it to the rest of our national retailers and some of our regional retailers, and we really weren't 100% out there with the distribution until mid-March.

The second piece is, is that we only had two weeks of sales worth on the LTE device on smartphones. And then finally, we just launched the 4G device the last day of the month. So I think if you look at all of this and you look at the pro rate of access on these devices, that's why we only generated 2.2% of growth, but we accelerated to 2.8%. And as we said, we think that this will just continue to accelerate as the year goes on as we launch these into initial devices.

Now getting into your margin comment, no, I don't think that you will see a decline in the second quarter. The fluctuation, I believe, will come when a new device from Apple is launched, whenever that may be, and that we will be, on the first time, on equal footing with our competitors on a new phone hitting the market, which will also be a global device. So I think there will be some fluctuations when that happens, but we don't anticipate any fluctuation in the second quarter.

JASON ARMSTRONG: That's helpful. Thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Brad. Can we move on to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay, thanks guys. Is -- a quick question on wireless, is 50% smartphone concentration still the target? Because I think it implies some accelerating penetration gains which would also support your view on the improvements in ARPU.

And then secondly, on the wireline side, you showed some progress there and I guess you will show some more progress when you lap the changes in the wholesale pricing. Is it possible that we see some wireline growth by the end of the year in wireline?

FRAN SHAMMO: Thanks, John. So first off, on the 50% penetration, yes, we still are very confident in the 50%. And let me just be clear here because at the end of December, we labeled that we were at 26% penetration, but we changed the way we were calculating our penetration, so I want to make sure everybody's clear.

We were kind of -- we were doing a different calculation than the rest of the industry, so we changed to equal the rest of the industry, so that we had an apples to apples comparison. So if you look at the 26% we disclosed in December, it really was 28%. Now we ended this quarter at 32%.

This, I believe, is going to accelerate as we continue to launch and have a full month of Apple on the decks. Also, with the LTE launches, as you know, we only had two weeks of our first HTC handset. We are coming out with our Samsung handset very shortly here, and then LG will be following. So we will have up to three devices launched by the second quarter, so again, that's going to accelerate the growth, and yes, we are very confident that we will hit the 50% penetration.

And then on the wireline side of the house, I think as we continue here, we are confident that we can continue to expand the EBITDA margin in wireline. Obviously, there is a lot of cost reduction that has to take place. We continue to work out and look at the entire logistics ecosystem. We are continuing to reduce real estate. Last year, we reduced over 7 million and our target is equal for this year.

We have a whole garage study being -- taking place and we are closing garages and consolidating on that. So as you look at that continued margin, I think that's one piece of it. But as you mentioned, as we work ourselves out of the international voice decline year over year, and I think that will happen entering into the third quarter, if the economy starts to stimulate a bit, and we continue to obviously penetrate on the FiOS side, I think there is a good point where we could actually see some top-line growth out of the wireline segment.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay, thanks, Fran.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, John. Brad, can we move on, please?

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks very much. Good morning. You talked about closing the Terremark transaction, Fran. Are you able to give us any color on sort of headline trends for Q1 for Terremark?

And then, I think in the past, in March, you talked about unlimited pricing, reviewing that on your new devices in the summer timeframe. Perhaps you could give us an update on that. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Thank you, Simon. So, on Terremark, we closed the transaction on April 11. We will have our first full quarter here in the second quarter. Terremark continued to grow at their steady pace of 20% through the first quarter. We believe that that will continue into the second quarter and obviously Bob Toohey and his team on the business side have a lot of integration activity going on with Manny and his team. And are going to hit the street strong with an offer here, a collaborative offer between the former Verizon business and the Terremark assets. So I think we're off to a good start there.

On the unlimited pricing, we are going to be going to a tiered pricing in midsummer this year. That is a definite, and you will hear more of that as we get there, but yes, we will be going to a tiered pricing for both 3G and 4G devices.

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Simon. Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, thanks. Good morning. One question and then just a couple housekeeping things. On the question, can you talk a little bit more about the business markets, particularly what you're seeing in small and medium end of the market? And are you seeing any more competition from cable there?

And then from a housekeeping perspective, can you just give us the wireless replacement rate, device replacement rate during the quarter for postpaid; and where the wireless business ended on a net debt basis for the quarter? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thanks, Mike. So, on the -- first off, on the SMB, I think what we will see is first, if you look at on the wireline side of the house and the overlap that we have there, obviously, we are at a disadvantage when you think about the DSL and the voice strategy that we have on the former copper plant. We're at a disadvantage to cable in that area.

But if you look at our FiOS, and where we have passed the prem and actually connect at the prem in small business. Our growth rate there is 37% year over year. So there is a difference between what market on the overlap of the wireline assets we're talking about. So I think that's important to note. But from an overall perspective, I think we are flat.

We've made some improvement year over year, but I will tell you I'm not happy with the progress in the small-business arena, and Bobby Mudge and his team are attacking that, but even within the Bob Toohey organization of Verizon business outside of the wireline footprint, with the Terremark acquisition, I think we have some unique offers that we can now make to the small-business arena around cloud, and I think that will help some of the offset of the former MCI mass markets which continues to decline.

From a housekeeping perspective, on net debt, from an overall perspective on net debt, we ended the quarter as I said at $47.2 billion and wireless ended at about around $12 billion.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Great, thanks. And just the wireless device replacement rate for postpaid? If you have that for the quarter, that would be great too.

FRAN SHAMMO: Now, Michael, just to clarify, when you say replacement, you mean upgrades?

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Yes.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so just a couple things around that. The other one point I want to make on the debt side of the house is that we have about, as I said, we have a $4 billion maturity coming up here in May that will come out of wireless, so there's a maturity of about $4 billion. So that will take the net debt down on the wireless side as well.

Then, on the upgrade side of the house, as we said, 60% of our sales were smartphones altogether. And as I said before, in January, I thought there was a major opportunity for us because our featured base as part of our postpaid base was significantly higher, and this was an area where we thought that we could make some good inroads into upgrading our feature phone base into a smartphone.

This quarter, 56% of our upgrades in total, and as you see from our release, we did about 3% a quarter, 3% a month, so it was about 9% for the quarter. So 56% of them were upgrades of feature phones or multimedia phones to our smartphones.

So when you think about that, if you look at a feature phone which has no data plan today, that's an incremental $30 of ARPU and on a multimedia, they had a $10 feature plan which now we get an incremental $20 of ARPU. So I think from that perspective, I do believe that we still have some very good inroads here from a feature phone perspective. Going forward, we still have 62% of our base that are still on feature phones.

And then on a 4G side of the house, if you look at the adds that we did, 35% of them were new to category, and when I say that, they were also feature phones who upgraded into that. Now that's part of the 56% that I talked before, but just specifically on the 4G device, 35% of them were upgrades.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thanks very much.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, can we take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks for taking the question, and really appreciate all the color around the iPhone and the ThunderBolt, so I'm just going to ask for a bit more. If we just assume that you had a very strong launch around the iPhone, particularly to existing customers, it kind of looks like, as you exited the quarter, both devices might have been selling at about the same pace. So I'm wondering if that's a reasonable conclusion here.

And then you had mentioned how the iPhone didn't launch with full distribution, but that's expanded. Is that the same approach you are taking with your LTE devices? Or are you actually putting them in all of your channels on day one?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so, Brett, let me address a couple of those. So on the iPhone launch, we were cautious because we were not sure, obviously, of the demand that was there for the phone, and we wanted to monitor the supply and the demand so that we did not run into a backlog situation. From an HTC perspective, we are launching that across the board, so it is not a similar effect there.

Now, if you look at the iPhone, 78% of the iPhone were upgrades and 22% of those iPhones were new to our base. So if you do the math there, you can look at the iPhone dropped right down into our net adds for the quarter. And then, if you look at 4G and you add that in, 54% of our net adds were consistent with both the iPhone launch and the HTC launch. So 54% of our net adds came from those two devices alone.

So I think that from a pace perspective, we are very, very pleased with the HTC handset launch. You have seen probably some of the articles I have seen where people have tested it.

This is a true 4G device. You can put as much lipstick on 3 to make it a 4, but this is truly a 4G device with the speeds of 4G, and I think people are impressed and people will make their decision. So out of the gate, we are very happy with the volume, and I think that this will just continue as we continue to launch more 4G smartphone devices coming here in the next few weeks.

BRETT FELDMAN: Okay, so just one quick follow-up here. You're now selling the most popular 3G smartphone on the market, in the iPhone. You're selling the most popular 4G smartphone on the market. I know it's early days, but are you seeing anything meaningfully different in the way people are using the devices?

FRAN SHAMMO: Not really. I think that with the 4G speeds, obviously, people are consuming more data. That will be expected given the video speeds and some of the TV download speeds, but keep in mind, though, that the 4G network is so much more efficient than the 3G network. So even with that incremental usage on 4G, even at the same price of 3G, the profitability is higher. So, it behooves us to move as many people to 4G as we possibly can, and you will see us doing that proactively in certain markets.

So from a different standpoint, yes, they are consuming more on 4G than they are on 3G, but we expected that.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, we'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Phil Cusick, JPMC.

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks for taking my call. So, first, I wanted to see if we can get a little more detail on some of these things. You talked about the smartphone mix picking up from 60%. Can you give us what the March smartphone mix might have been as you saw that ARPU acceleration?

FRAN SHAMMO: Phil, I don't have that detail. I just had it for the quarter.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. And then just following up on Brett's as well, the 4G data usage, you said, is higher. Can you give us an idea of what that is?

FRAN SHAMMO: At this point we're not going to disclose the usage on 4G. It's really way too early to deal with that because, as you know, as people get an initial handset, they initially download a lot of applications, so usage tends to be higher than the normal average, and we've only been at this HTC handset for two weeks. So I think it's premature to release anything like that.

PHIL CUSICK: Okay. I'll try one more swing and then maybe I'll be out. So you talked about the iPhone being a global device when that launches. Do you anticipate that being a 4G device and sort of being at par in terms of speeds with your other 4G?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, I can't answer for Apple's product launch to be honest with you. All I know is it will be a global device. At that point I think we will have to go to Apple to find out exactly what that device will have.

JOHN DOHERTY: Nice try, Phil.

PHIL CUSICK: I tried.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities.

JOHN DOHERTY: Mike, we can't hear you.

OPERATOR: Please stand by.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, let's go to the next question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch. Please stand by. Please stand by. Mike McCormack, Nomura Securities, your line is open.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Sorry about that. Yes, just a couple of quick questions. First, -- and then, not to beat --

FRAN SHAMMO: (multiple speakers)

MIKE MCCORMACK: Not to beat the ARPU thing to death here, but you guys have identified, obviously, some backend loading of the smartphones, and I think that's good color. But thinking about ARPU growth, can you sort of identify the offsets which might be coming in the form of voice pressure from family share roaming?

And then how should we think about data devices like tablets and sticks and cards and stuff like that, that may carry a lower overall ARPU, which could sort of have an impact on the growth rate, but obviously driving some decent adds.

And then secondly, and it might be premature, but thinking about the iPhone guidance for the year based on 11 million, the 2.2 million tracking a bit lower, not surprising given a partial quarter, but it's also the launch quarter. So just trying to figure out what your thought process is there. Obviously we're anticipating a refresh at some point during the year that obviously could boost that as well. But just some thoughts around that would be great.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, thanks, Mike. So from an ARPU perspective, from a voice ARPU perspective, we are obviously seeing a decline there, but it is a slowing decline year over year. So, yes, that is putting pressure on us but it is putting a pressure on us at a slower rate and we view that as, that will continue into the future. Also, from a voice ARPU perspective as we launch the iPhone, I guess I would be remiss to say that the call quality on the iPhone has been spectacular on the 3G CDMA network. And obviously, we think that our voice will continue to slow as we add more iPhones and people realize the quality of the voice network and the data network there. So, I think that will be fine.

From a tablet and a broadband access device perspective, there is some small dilution going on from the old price plans to the new price plans, but we don't see that as being a drag to the overall ARPU as we continue to penetrate into the tablet scenario, into the 4G MiFi devices and the usage that the MiFi devices will bring and the tiered pricing that we already have related to our data products. So I don't see that as being a major issue going forward.

And as far as the 2.2 million in the first quarter and the 11 million overall, we are sticking with our 11 million view for our guidance purposes.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Fran. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, guys, for taking the question. Just two if I could, maybe. Fran, just starting with the debt raise recently, this past quarter, and kind of bulking up on the balance sheet, both coming out $9 billion or so, $7 billion going into cash. Obviously, we've got the Terremark deal cash going out the door, but is this cash that we put on the balance sheet really about trying to avoid the necessity of upstreaming dividends or maintaining leverage at the Verizon Wireless business? Because I did notice that you guys kind of called out that specifically in the call today that you didn't want to have to do anything on the dividend until next year, but because you are not, you had to go into the markets and raise this money and put cash on the balance sheet. And I just wondered if you could kind of talk through your thinking there.

And I think the second question if I could is just maybe more strategically thinking about the industry consolidation. I think you guys have come out as fairly neutral on AT&T's prospective acquisition of T-Mobile. With the caveat, as long as it doesn't lead towards incremental regulation of the industry. Could you talk a little bit about what kinds of regulations you think would be the kinds of regulations that would get you up off the bench to kind of come in and oppose this deal? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, thank you, David. So first on the debt side of the house, yes, we actually went out into the market because we have some debt maturities both within corporate and wireline this year that needed to be refinanced. And when we initially did it, the interest rates were so well we took advantage of the interest rates and raised it to $6.25 billion. We have about $2 billion worth of maturities coming in the back half of the year. We had a $500 million refinancing that took place in the first quarter.

We also wanted to refinance some of our CP paper, commercial paper, so we did that as well. And due to the lucrativeness of the interest rates we had, we also decided to prefund our pension plan of $400 million, both to take effect of the interest rate and the arbitrage on that. Compared to the return that that $400 million would get in the pension plan, that would help us alleviate some of our future cash flow obligations into the plan. So this really was all around just a refinancing and rebalancing of our balance sheet; and just for general other observations; and as you said, pay for the Terremark; and also to refinance the Terremark debt.

And then from an AT&T and T-Mobile merger perspective, I guess the comment I would have is we have to let that go through due process with the federal government. And we will sit and wait and see.

Obviously, we will then take a view of, if it's a market-based condition merger, we will be fine with that. If it's a regulatory merger, then we will have a harder time with it. Now, as far as what may have been a little bit off here is I'm not going to go into what types of things we may object to, but obviously we are a very strong on where we stand with net neutrality. We are very strong where we stand with data roaming, and the positions that the FCC have recently taken there.

And we will not stand by if there are certain regulations put on us that we have to deliver certain things at a fixed price that's set by a regulatory arm that has no authority over that regulation of price. So we will sit back, let it go through its due process and then we will see what happens.

DAVID BARDEN: All right, guys. Thanks.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thank you, David. One or two more questions, Brad. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Thanks, guys. Two broader questions. Fran, on the managed services front, I know it's early in the process here, but do you find yourself bumping up against more of the traditional IT outsourcers in the market? And do you have the capabilities you need in managed services at this point, or do you need more acquisitions?

And then secondly, on the smartphone side, could you talk about ultimately what you would like to see in terms of number of suppliers on the different platforms and maybe market share platform?

And related to this, the subsidies per handset, do you think we're at peak run rates here and they can start to decline? Or do you think we will see handset subsidies on the smartphones increase for a while? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay thanks, Tim. So on the managed services side, I think that we have the portfolio of assets that we need to be very successful in this piece of the business, and I think we have shown that with some of the wins that we have publicly stated here in the past. And you're absolutely right, we are actually entering into a market where we are competing with many different players depending upon where you are in the globe.

Especially here in the US, we go up against all of the integrators and some of the other service providers, but outside the globe, we hit on a bunch of different players like Tata and Infosystems and people like that. So it depends where you are on the globe, but we think we are very well positioned with our portfolio. And we have shown this with our strategic services growth of 12.8%.

Some of the growth this quarter and the reason it jumped up was driven by our managed services business. So I think we are starting to really gain new ground here. We have proven ourselves with some of the major undertakings that we have taken with some of our announced deals with Matsui and JetBlue and others. So I think we've got a good stance, and I don't think we need to do any more major acquisitions in this portfolio.

As far as the smartphone side of the house and subsidies, I think first, we are charging a premium on the 4G smartphone, so the subsidy obviously there is less than others. But we'll have to see how the market goes, and I would assume that this market will mature the -- similar that a feature phone market matured over the years where as more players become into the marketplace and we have new entrants like maybe a Huawei down the road, there will be -- put pressure on the other manufacturers to get more efficient and reduce price, and then that will help our subsidy go. So I think the maturity of the market and the ecosystem will eventually take care of itself.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thanks, Tim. Brad, last question, please.

OPERATOR: Jonathan Chaplin, Credit Suisse.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. So, one question, AT&T gave, as one of the -- or two of the justifications for the deal, getting access to a lot more spectrum and increasing their cell site density quickly. I think after this transaction, they're going to have significant -- you know, 50 megahertz or so more spectrum than you, and then cell site density, which is 25% to 30% more dense than yours as well.

Can you talk about how you see your spectrum needs evolving over the course of the next three to five years? And what you think you need to do from a cell site density perspective to keep up with the rapidly growing data demand that you're seeing? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Thanks, Jonathan. As we said before, we think we are in a very good spectrum position. We think we have the spectrum we need, and are in a good position until about the year 2015 at this point. And we will continue to keep our eyes open to see where we need to buy spectrum or secure spectrum. But right now we are in a very, very good position. I'm not going to speak to the competitor. You can ask those questions as to why they did this and why they needed the spectrum, but I think we're in a very good position.

JOHN DOHERTY: All right. Thanks, Fran. Thanks to all of the participants that joined us this morning. And with that, Brad, let me hand it back to you to complete the call.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
applc : Apple Inc | belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i3302003 : Desktop Computers | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccrly : Customer Retention/Loyalty | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110505e74l002jq
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  Verizon  Earnings and Investor Meeting - Final
   WC
19,116 words
   PD
25 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. John Doherty.

JOHN DOHERTY, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Good morning. Welcome to Verizon's investor conference. Thanks for joining us here at Cipriani Wall Street or via our live webcast, where I understand we have an additional 500 plus people that have signed in. We hope you are all as excited as we are to be meeting with you in person as we end 2010 and kick off 2011.

   TD
Before we get started I would like to point out that our fourth-quarter earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the earnings presentation slides are all currently available on our Investor Relations website. At the conclusion of this morning's meeting, the strategic and financial overview piece will also be posted to the website for your reference and use.

All historical information has been adjusted for the affect of the change in the benefit plan accounting that we announced on Friday. It is my pleasure to be joined this morning by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ivan Seidenberg; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Lowell McAdam; and our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Fran Shammo.

If you can switch to the agenda slide. Okay, we will start our session this morning with a review of our fourth-quarter earnings by Fran, and then we're going to have a brief Q&A session just after that where I would really like you to stay focused on the earnings that we released in that piece of the agenda. This will be followed by our strategic and financial piece, and then we will open it up for a broader Q&A, where we will have Ivan join us, as well as Fran and Lowell, of course.

So with that, I would like to hand it over to our Chief Executive Officer, Ivan Seidenberg.

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VERIZON: Okay, thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. Once again I would like to thank all of you who are here and those of you on the webcast for joining us this morning and participating in this earnings call.

Just a very short introduction here before I ask Fran to join us. I thought with all of the moving parts and all of the strong momentum that we have been developing here at the end of 2010 and a very exciting set of prospects for 2011 and beyond, that our investors needed a little grounding in making sure they understood our strategic, operational and financial metrics.

And hopefully this morning, while we are not intending to make a lot of new big news, I think you will be pleased to see Fran and Lowell share with you what they think the business and the model looks like as we go out into 2011 and 2012.

I also thought it was very important that you have a chance to see and touch and talk to both Lowell and Fran as we enter this important year, 2011. And for those of you here in person, of course, the opportunity to go in the back and play with our toys and all the new products and services is always a nice thing. And you will get a chance to see how all this new technology comes alive for the customer.

So with that brief introduction, as John just mentioned, what we like to do to structure our first order of business this morning is to cover 2010 earnings, and for that, let's ask Fran to come up and do that for us right now. Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON: Thank you, Ivan. Well, good morning, everyone. For those of you here in person as well as those on our live webcast, I want to thank you for joining us today. During the transition period with John Killian, I had the pleasure of meeting a few of you. For many of you who I have not yet met, I look forward to that later today or in the near future.

Okay, so let's move into our first topic for today and review our fourth-quarter and full-year 2010 financial results. After my remarks, we will take some questions and then move on to the rest of the program.

Before we get started, I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. The factors which may affect future results are contained in our SEC filings and are also available on our website.

So going to the next slide, for fourth-quarter 2010 overview, we ended 2010 on a high note with very strong overall financial performance in the fourth quarter, driven by continued solid execution and growth across all of our businesses. The Wireless business is performing extremely well. Service revenue in the fourth quarter remained strong at 7.7% year over year, driven once again by smartphone sales to both new and existing customers. We had a solid quarter of postpaid customer growth with 872,000 net adds, and we continue to see accelerating growth in postpaid ARPU, which was up 2.5% on a year-over-year basis.

We improved our industry-leading customer retention metrics this quarter. In local number portability, we were net positive against all major carriers. In terms of profitability, we reported a record high service EBITDA margin of 47.5%, which we are obviously quite pleased with.

In Wireline, the financial picture continues to improve. We had positive quarterly revenue growth in consumer and enterprise, and the benefits of our workforce reduction and other cost initiatives are resulting in improved margin performance.

The Wireline EBITDA margin expanded for the third consecutive quarter, and was up 80 basis points sequentially from an adjusted margin of 22.7% in the third quarter to 23.5% in the fourth quarter. This reflects the impact of the pension accounting change between the Wireline segment and corporate.

The sequential increase had nothing to do with the accounting change. It was driven by improved operational performance. Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on opportunities to expand our Wireline margin.

Our increased scale and the success of our FiOS products, including our recent launch of Flex View are clearly helping both top line and margin performance in the consumer and small business markets. Global Enterprise revenue increased sequentially in the fourth quarter and showed positive growth of 1.3% year over year, driven by an acceleration of growth in the strategic services.

In terms of cash generation, we had another outstanding quarter. For the full year, our improving operational performance, the tax benefit initiatives, the efficient capital management resulted in an increase in free cash flow of $2.4 billion. Our focus on reducing leverage has improved our key metrics and strengthened the balance sheet.

Lastly, through a combination of share price appreciation and dividends, we generated a 23.1% return to shareholders in 2010. In addition, Verizon shareholders also received the equivalent of [$1.85 per share] (corrected by company after the call) in value through the spinoff of our Wireline properties to Frontier. So all in all, I would say we are very pleased with our financial performance.

Let's now move to our detailed review of the quarter. So on the financial summary, let's start with earnings. On a GAAP basis, we reported earnings for the quarter of $0.93 per share. The non-operational items amounted to a non -- or a net favorable impact of $0.39.

Setting these items aside, our adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.54. As far as the non-operational impacts go, although the overall impact of accounting for pension and retiree benefits under the new methodology was a net cost of $600 million for the year, the fourth-quarter impact was a net pretax gain of $2 billion or $0.44 per share. This was due to the previous recognition of pension and benefits losses resulting from pension settlements earlier in the year.

The fourth-quarter benefit was due primarily to favorable investment returns and an increase in the discount rate during the fourth quarter.

The second non-operational item is merger integration costs related to Alltel. During the fourth quarter, charges related to these activities amounted to $0.05 per share. This concludes our two-year integration program, and we will no longer be identifying these as non-operational costs going forward.

Consolidated revenue growth in the quarter accelerated to 2.3% year over year, up from 2.1% year-over-year growth in the third quarter. For the full year, total revenues increased by $1.9 billion to $104.4 billion.

Our fourth-quarter operating income increased by 18.2% year over year compared with the third-quarter growth of 11.3%. For the full year, operating income grew $1.4 billion or 8.4%.

The adjusted EBITDA margin grew 40 basis points sequentially to 33.6% and was up 260 basis points from the fourth quarter last year.

For the full year 2010, the adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 130 basis points to 32.9%. We are making good progress on improving profitability. Our cash flow also remains very strong. More on that in a minute.

Now, to adjusted EPS. First, I want to make a couple of additional points of clarification on earnings. The quarterly display on the chart before you show our earning results, adjusted for the impact of divested operations, as well to the non-operational or one-time items which occurred during the year. The first thing I would point out is that the first three quarters of 2010, as displayed on this slide, are different than what we showed you on the similar slide last quarter. And that is because of prior-period adjustments due to the pension accounting change we announced last Friday. Reported EPS changed, as did the amount of non-operational one-time items.

The net effect was an incremental $0.01 charge to adjusted EPS. So whereas the first three quarters of adjusted EPS used to be $0.49, $0.52 and $0.56, they are now $0.48, $0.51, and $0.55. as shown on this slide.

This reason for the painstaking detail here is because I want to tie back to earnings guidance statements in July and October. On our second-quarter earnings call, we stated that our goal was to grow earnings in the second half of the year by 5% to 10% from our first-half adjusted base of $1.01 per share, which excluded the earnings of the divested operations.

That first-half base is now $0.99 because of the accounting change. On our third-quarter earnings call in October, we stated that our expectation was at the high end of this guidance. With our $0.54 in adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter and our $0.55 third-quarter result, you see that we delivered on this earnings target, ending the year with adjusted earnings of $2.08 per share. This is the proper 2010 earnings base you should use when forecasting 2011. The important point here is that we saw an acceleration of earnings in the second half of the year.

Let's spend now a few minutes on cash flow, dividends, capital spending and the debt on the next slide. For cash flow from operations for the year, on a full-year basis totaled $33.4 billion, up 6.3%. And free cash flow was $16.9 billion, an increase of 16.4%. In addition, we received $3.1 billion in cash from the Frontier transaction in July, and a cash distribution of about $400 million from Omnitel, which we expect to continue in the future.

As we highlighted on our last earnings call, our Board approved a dividend increase last September for the fourth consecutive year, demonstrating their confidence in the strength of our cash flow, our balance sheet, as well as our commitment to return cash to shareholders.

As stated previously, Verizon shareholders also received $1.85 per share in value through the Frontier transaction last July. Again, a very good year from a standpoint of shareholder return at 23.1% for the year.

Looking to capital expenditures, we spent $16.5 billion in 2010, which was $400 million less than 2009 and below our targeted range of $16.9 billion to $17.2 billion. As you know, during the year, we effectively reallocated capital between Wireline and Wireless, shifting more toward our growth opportunities in order to maximize investment returns.

In Wireless, our capital spending was higher than 2009, driven by 4G LTE deployment and increased 3G network capacity requirements, which included preparing for the launch of the iPhone. Wireless CapEx totaled $8.4 billion, which was an increase of $1.3 billion over 2009. Conversely, Wireline capital spending was down, reflecting lower FiOS deployment capital as planned and our tight focus on spending to increase free cash flow. Wireline CapEx for the year came in at $7.3 billion, a decrease of $1.6 billion compared with 2009.

In terms of the balance sheet, a top priority has been to reduce leverage. We are doing very well here, with total debt of $52.8 billion down $9.5 billion or 15.2% for the year. Our cash balance at December 31 was $6.7 billion, so we ended the year with net debt of $46.1 billion, a reduction of $14.1 billion or 23.4% since the end of 2009.

Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio improved to about 1.3 times from 1.9 times at the end of 2009.

Let's now take a look at our revenue trends on the next slide. As I said earlier, our overall revenue performance is improving, and we saw an acceleration of growth on a comparative basis in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter. Consolidated quarterly revenues of $26.4 billion were up $592 million or 2.3% from a year ago. Growth was driven by solid performance in all of our strategic areas, which roughly comprise two-thirds of our total revenue.

We will get into more details at the segment level, but the highlights are wireless service revenue grew 7.7% on strong data results. We had another strong quarter in FiOS with year-over-year growth of more than 26%, and we sustained growth in enterprise strategic services, up 7.5%.

To be balanced, offsetting these growth areas are other parts of our business which are not growing, services like international wholesale voice, core voice in our consumer and enterprise units, and high-speed Internet outside the FiOS footprint. I would say, however, that these services, whether taken collectively or individually, are becoming a smaller portion of our overall revenue mix.

During our decade-long strategic transformation, we have aligned our Company with major growth trends driving our industry. You will hear much more on this from Lowell and myself later this morning. We are very optimistic about our future growth prospects.

With that high-level summary of revenues, let's move to the segments next, starting with Wireless.

Our Wireless business turned in another extremely impressive quarter, particularly with respect to profitable revenue growth. Total revenue grew to $16.1 billion in the quarter, up $873 million or 5.7% year over year, with total service revenue up 7.7%. Our continued focus on expanding the market for mobile broadband drove data revenue to $5.3 billion this quarter and comprised 37.1% of total service revenues.

During 2010, total data revenues increased to $19.6 billion. That is $4 billion of data revenue growth in one year. Think about that number, and then you can understand our excitement about the revenue opportunity with 4G LTE tablets, 4G LTE, all new 3G and 4G smartphones that are coming to the market. We are confident that the Verizon network advantage will become even more of a differentiator in the marketplace in 2011 and beyond.

In terms of customer growth, we added a total of 955,000 net new customers. 872,000 of these were retail postpaid, which is roughly 50% more than we added in the third quarter. Retail postpaid gross adds in the quarter were up sequentially 5.2%. We ended the year with 94.1 million total customers, with 88% of the base being retail postpaid, 5% retail prepaid and 7% reseller.

In terms of other connections, we have a total of 8.1 million machine-to-machine connections which include vehicle tracking and telematics.

Let's take a closer look at ARPU. As you know, we are focused on the retail postpaid market, where we will continue to grow revenue by adding customers, increasing data usage and driving higher smartphone penetration. Throughout the year, we saw accelerating postpaid ARPU growth from 0.6% year-over-year growth in the first quarter to 1.5% in the second, to 2% in the third, and now 2.5% in the fourth quarter. Clearly, we are gaining momentum in this critical metric through increased smartphone penetration.

Retail postpaid data ARPU was obviously a big driver with year-over-year growth of 19.3% in the fourth quarter. Revenue from Web and e-mail services increased to more than $2.9 billion this quarter, up more than 43% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up about 35% of data revenue is still showing good growth, up 9.6% on a year-over-year basis.

And our strategy of stimulating data growth and smartphone penetration is also improving customer retention. Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent. Total churn for the quarter improved to 1.34%; our retail postpaid churn was 1.01%, improving by 6 basis points sequentially and 4 basis points year over year.

Now to smartphones and devices. In terms of smartphone penetration, we now have 26% of our retail postpaid base with these devices. That is up substantially from 15% one year ago, and there is plenty of headroom left.

In the fourth quarter, more than 75% of our postpaid net adds were smartphones and 45% of our postpaid sales in the quarter, which include both upgrades and gross adds, were smartphones. As far as upgrades, about 9% of our existing postpaid customer base upgraded to a new device in the fourth quarter, a pretty strong result, given our messaging around 4G LTE. Our smartphone talk-free promotion within family share plans was a big contributor to upgrades in the quarter. Interestingly, about 63% of smartphone upgrades were new to this category, which is very good sign in terms of incremental data revenue moving forward, even within our existing customer base.

At the end of the year, we had 5.8 million data devices in our postpaid base, with 323,000 added in the fourth quarter. Within this category are our Internet devices like 3G and 4G PC cards, MiFi devices, tablets and notebooks.

So, while we have made rapid progress in a relatively short period of time, adding 9.3 million smartphone customers this year and substantially increasing data ARPU, we strongly believe both connections and data ARPU growth could really explode over the next several years with proliferation of 4G LTE devices and the iPhone opportunity. In just three weeks in December, we added 65,000 subscribers to our 4G network, of which 41% were new to Verizon.

Wireless profitability. In terms of profitability, we had another excellent quarter, generating $6.7 billion of EBITDA, up 14.6% from a year ago. Our fourth-quarter EBITDA margin was 47.5%, a very strong result. We have consistently demonstrated our ability to sustain and expand margins this year through a combination of revenue, growth, effective cost-saving initiatives and continuing to mine synergy savings from the Alltel acquisition.

In addition to effectively managing our cash costs per sub in a business-as-usual manner, we also identified and captured about $1 billion in additional cost savings in 2010 through focused efforts in our supply chain, customer service and a number of other areas within our business. And while we are encouraged by these savings, I certainly see more opportunity throughout the organization to further enhance productivity and make the business even more cost-effective. As always, you can expect us to continue to achieve both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market and increasing the penetration of smartphones and other data devices, which we drive continued revenue data growth.

Let's move to our Wireline segment. As I said during the highlights, we are encouraged by the improving revenue trends. The 2.8% year-over-year decline in the fourth quarter marks an improvement from a 3.6% decline the last quarter. And we have excluded the effects -- if we exclude the effects of the international Wireless wholesale -- I'm sorry, the international wholesale pricing change, total Wireline revenues were down 1.1% year over year, mainly due to declines in other wholesale operations.

On the consumer side, our broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 26.8% year over year. And FiOS ARPU, which now exceeds $146 per sub, is up more than 4% over the fourth quarter of last year. FiOS now accounts for 53% of our consumer revenue.

On the enterprise side, we had our third sequential quarter of revenue improvement. And growth in strategic services, which includes security, IP, our managed solutions, continues to transform the revenue mix. Let's now take a closer look at the consumer and business markets.

Within the mass markets category, consumer revenue of $3.4 billion in the quarter grew 1.6% versus last year. Here, we continue to see strong growth in consumer ARPU, which increased to $88.85 this quarter, which is up 10.7% from a year ago. As I said, FiOS now represents about 53% of consumer revenue, which is important because the increasing scale of FiOS and the strength of our broadband video products, are driving positive revenue and ARPU growth, and are now large enough to more effectively mitigate the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business.

We had a solid quarter of growth in FiOS TV, adding 182,000 subscribers, which was a 22% improvement over fourth quarter last year. We ended the year with a total of 3.5 million FiOS TV customers, representing annual growth of better than 26%. Our FiOS TV penetration at year end stood at 28%.

On the broadband side, we added 197,000 new FiOS Internet customers in the quarter, a 31% year-over-year improvement. Our FiOS Internet customer base increased 24% to $4.1 million in 2010, representing 32% penetration of homes open for sale. By adding in our 4.3 million high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the year with a total of 8.4 million broadband connections.

Underlying our strong FiOS performance is the fact that our customer satisfaction ratings are very high, and our churn rates are very low. Our renewed focus on sales and increased penetration is paying off.

In our more mature FiOS markets, we are still seeing consistent penetration gains. Penetration in some of these markets is in excess of 35% and a few in excess of 40% penetration. In addition, as we stated at the end of the third quarter, multi-dwelling units or MDU customers, have become a bigger portion of total net adds, particularly in the second half of the year. So, again, we are pleased with our progress in FiOS, and we look ahead to a good year in 2011.

Let's move to business. While revenues in the business market continue to be challenged by macroeconomic pressures, we are seeing signs of improvement. Global Enterprise revenue of $4 billion was up modestly on a sequential basis and also up 1.3% on a year-over-year basis, driven by increased CPU sales and improvements in key products within our strategic services category. Strategic Services, which now represent 44% of global enterprise revenue, grew 7.5% year over year and 3.7% sequentially.

Within this category, strategic nonworking, like private IP and Ethernet services, continue to show steady growth, as do strategic solutions.

Our security services grew 12% year over year in the fourth quarter, as we are seeing the benefits of being named the number one global leader in security by Gartner Group. Importantly, in the fourth quarter, the absolute dollar growth in Strategic Services outpaced the dollar decline in core enterprise services. We are encouraged by this as the size of our strategic services is large enough to mitigate the secular and cyclical pressures elsewhere in the business.

So, again, we are seeing some early positive signs but we still have a cautious posture as we look for additional signs of recovery in the broader economy. But overall, we are encouraged by improving trends in Global Enterprise.

In Global Wholesale, revenues declined 12.1% year over year and 3% sequentially. Domestically, voice revenues continue to be impacted by secular pressures and lower usage volumes. Internationally, our route rationalization strategy, where we increased voice pricing in certain geographies, has resulted in a loss of business and a substantial decline in international voice revenue. In the fourth quarter, we experienced $179 million decline on a year-over-year basis. Absent these effects, fourth-quarter global wholesale revenues declined 5.5% year over year. Since we introduced these price changes in the second quarter last year, I'd say we have two more quarters of somewhat tough comparisons to work through before the revenue impact of these actions moderates.

I think it is also important to add that while this strategy has certainly resulted in revenue declines, it is having the desired effect on profitability, as our absolute margin on these routes has improved.

Let's cover Wireline profitability. In the fourth quarter, EBITDA increased by $82 million, resulting in an 80 basis point sequential improvement in our EBITDA margin of 23.5%. Again, our historical margins have had upward adjustments due to the pension accounting change but they are all on a comparable basis. That said, during the year, we increased the Wireline margin by 240 basis points from our low point of 21.1% in the first quarter.

On an absolute dollar basis, our fourth-quarter Wireline EBITDA was higher year on year for the first time in recent memory. While a majority of this improvement this quarter was once again driven by cost savings, third-party interconnection costs, margin improvements were also helped by revenue growth in FiOS and global enterprise.

Our workforce reduction initiatives in 2010 were successful in helping us lower our cost structure and reduce our overall cost of labor. The Wireline headcount declined by about 16,000 year over year. As you know, a majority of these reductions related to voluntary separation offers accepted by our associate workforce. While it is unlikely that our workforce reductions in 2011 will come close to what we experienced last year, our focus on continued -- to reduce the Wireline cost structure will be just as vigilant. I can assure you that this is one of my primary focus areas across the entire business, not just in Wireline. There are many more areas to capture additional savings, and you will be hearing more on our progress as we move through the year.

So to sum this up, we had another solid quarter and strong second half of the year, resulting in improved earnings and solid momentum. We had strong wireless growth with record high profitability. We remain confident in our ability to grow the business by adding new customers and driving higher smartphone penetration. And, with our demonstrated ability to tightly manage our cost structure, we continue to grow profitably, sustaining a very strong service EBITDA margin.

As you have seen and heard this morning, our Wireline performance has improved over the course of the second half of the year. Our cost reduction programs have stabilized Wireline profitability. And we are optimistic about our opportunities to further expand margins going forward, particularly as we begin to see an acceleration of revenue from our growth areas like FiOS and enterprise strategic services. Our sharp focus on capital spending discipline, maximizing free cash flow and deleveraging has resulted in a stronger balance sheet.

Let me wrap up here, as we will be sharing more on our strategic and financial outlook with you later in this morning's program. At this time, I will open it up to the floor for questions.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: A quick question on the Wireless margins, the margins in the fourth quarter are up sequentially, could you give us a little bit of detail on the $1 billion in cost savings that you identified? Maybe where they are coming from, if there is potentially more to go, and maybe more importantly when those came out during the year? I mean was it something that affected the latter half or even the fourth quarter more than the other quarters? And then maybe just a couple lines on some of the below-the-line items which seem to be a little bit different than we expected this quarter? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure, John. So, first, on the overall cost initiatives within Wireless, they set out the year on a $1 billion cost initiative, which include all types of things, like customer service, store operations, logistics, real estate. But the biggest one this year that had the most impact was logistics. In logistics alone, there was a $750 million cost reduction within the whole ecosystem of our logistics system. That came throughout the year but obviously the bigger part of that came in the second latter part of the year. So that really was the big portion.

As I said, and I'm going to talk about later, they have yet another $1 billion challenge for 2011 and we could talk more about that in the later program.

On the second issue, John, I think as we look at what the consensus was, we were higher on EBITDA margin; we were higher on operating income margin. But then on the below-the-line item, I think the big disparity between consensus is how minority interest is calculated. And of course a lot of that EBITDA margin was driven by the Wireless unit, so there was more minority interest I think than what was expected on the consensus side. So that is how we got down to the bottom.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Jason Armstrong from Goldman Sachs. Maybe a couple questions. First on, just to follow up on John's, the balance between strong adds and margins this quarter in Wireless I think really exceeded expectations. You guys put up a record smartphone add quarter this year but still had record margin, which really kind of frames I think the [investor today] into next year because there is a sense out there that you cannot maintain margins; EPS is going to drift because of the type of volumes you are going to see.

So maybe just help us think through what actually happened in the fourth quarter. I'm sure there was obviously some cost-cutting initiatives that played into that, but just how that sets the stage into next year. And then maybe on the volume metrics, the 870 in postpaid adds, it seems like there were actually probably some limitations at the customer level in 4Q, big network changes ahead, big handset refresh ahead. It seems like that number actually could have been a lot higher. So what do you think maybe the run rate of the business is? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so Jason, both of these, I think we are going to cover a lot more in the next session, but let me just set the stage. From a fourth-quarter standpoint, even with the adds that we had in Wireless, with the cost reductions we had, we only had a 0.2% increase in our cash expense. So for all of the adds that we had, a significant majority of that drop right to the bottom line.

And I think that as we said before, and I'm going to have some fun in the latter session because the question I always get is, how long can you maintain these margins, and I'm going to have some fun with that in the next session. So hold that question.

But I think as we go forward, I think you can expect us to run the business like we always have. It is all about execution, and it's about execution on profitability and growth. And it is an "and" equation for us; it is not an "or." So I think Lowell will speak a lot to the strategy. I'm going to talk a lot about the iPhone expectations, where we think it is going to be. So I think I will come back to your question in the second half. Simon?

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Staying on the postpaid adds, you had a strong performance in the Internet devices; I think you said 323,000. Can you contrast that with where that was say, you know, Q3 a year ago, what the delta is there and what the characteristics of those devices are in terms of ARPU? And then if you could just touch on what was going on in reseller and wholesale? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: So on the Internet, we had our best quarter in the fourth quarter this year. And I think really two things contributed to that increase.

One is, as we said, within three weeks of launching 4G LTE, we sold 65,000 dongles. 41% of them were new to Verizon. Okay, so that was a contributor to it.

The second is, as we launched our tablet starting in October with the iPad and then shortly thereafter with the Samsung, we sold about 86,000 tablets in all. 37,000 were just stand-alone iPads. The rest were all iPad with a MiFi device, and with the Galaxy. So 96% of them were new to the category. So these were folks who did not have any type of data usage on this type of a device before. So 96% of those customers were new to this category. So that helped boost the quarter from an add perspective. And then, I'm sorry, Simon go to your second question again.

Reseller wholesale. So on the reseller side, we grew by 152,000 net adds, and then on the prepay side, we lost 70,000.

And then I think the important thing here is obviously, as we have always said, we are a postpaid retail company. But we believe that those other segments are important. However, we are not going to chase those segments when we think that we can have more postpaid growth. And if you think about the reseller segment, and with unlimited offerings that they use, they flip between carriers depending upon who has the best price at that point in time. So I think you saw a little bit of that but we still added 152,000 reseller net adds.

On the prepay side, as you saw, we launched new prepaid pricing at the end of the quarter, in December, adjusting our rate down to $1.99 from $3.99, but instituting a $0.02 text messaging fee. So we think that stimulated some more retail prepaid growth in the last month of the quarter, but was not enough to offset the disconnects from October and November. So I think we see some little momentum going there, bringing our price down more to where the rest of the market was.

On the wholesale side, I think it is important that we really distinguish this international calling, because if you think about it, on the 12.2% wholesale decrease, 28% of that was driven by the international wholesale piece. So when you state that out, the wholesale decline was only 5.5%.

And we did that because as we said before, there were a lot of routes that were not profitable, were very slim margin routes. When we decided to raise our price, that traffic went away; the revenue declined. But I think as we work through that in the third quarter next year, I think you will see a different picture for us going forward on wholesale. Michael?

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you talk a little bit more about the improvement in the Wireline margin? How much of that is labor related versus non-labor types of cost improvement?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so well, I mean obviously, we let -- we had a 16,000 reduction in labor this year. So there was a, say more of a significant impact there. And of course a big majority of that was driven by the associate population who decided to accept the incentive that we put on the table and work with our bargaining folks. And we put that on the table, and 16,000 associates took that. So, obviously, that was some of the decline.

But I think there is more behind the story than just that. I think you have to look at the whole picture, which is the increasing presence of FiOS. So FiOS is becoming a bigger portion of consumer. And when you think about access line loss, we went from 9.3% access line loss down to 8% in the final quarter. So you are seeing a declining trend for us in access loss. So the other thing is, as you look at the ARPU on FiOS, it is becoming a much bigger segment. It is 53% of the consumer revenue.

When you look at access lines, it is now only 7% of our overall corporate revenue from a consumer standpoint. So it is becoming less and less significant. FiOS continues to make progress on profitability, so I think you have to look at the whole thing. But, obviously, there is a lot of cost reduction initiatives that are there. I mean you can take the labor piece, but I think you also have to look at everything that Virginia Ruesterholz's group does out of Verizon services organization, which is real estate, energy, fleet management. It is just disciplined execution on all those costs that helped -- contributed to the margin.

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Just following up a little bit on that -- two questions if I could on the Wireline top line. First, just specifically with respect to FiOS as it is now creeps over 50% of the consumer revenue, as it grows, is it a lower margin product that as it grows you need to cut costs faster? Or as it grows is it margin accretive to the business? Is this a good thing it is growing or is it not a good thing it is growing from a margin standpoint?

And then second, just quickly on the enterprise recovery, we saw 1.3% growth. Was there any help or lift from the consumer premises equipment hardware side of that equation? Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Sure. Okay, so from a FiOS perspective, the interesting part here with FiOS here is as FiOS grows, it is becoming more profitable. And it is because we are becoming more efficient in how we connect the home, how we pass the home, how many labor hours it takes to connect that home. So if you look at the whole picture, the more we do, the better we are and the more efficient we get at it.

Now as I said, our goal is always to add between 180,000 and 200,000 TV net adds in a quarter. I think we have increased the penetration.

As I said before also, in the third quarter is we have concentrated much more on the MDU space. So if you look at the MDUs, we actually opened up 500,000 MDUs open for sale this year versus only 300,000 last year. That became a bigger portion of our adds in the second half of the year. And MDUs holistically are more cost effective to connect, because once you build the building, it is now disconnecting all the apartments or condos within that building. So I think you are seeing some more of the efficiency there, which then drives more ARPU up.

I think, also, there is a couple things with Flex View. So we just launched Flex View. In the short period of time we have had Flex View out there, we've only had 2,000 titles on that platform. That will grow to over 9,000 by the end of next year. Within those eight weeks that we had Flex View out, we sold 41,000 titles at approximately $15 per title.

Now those titles are in the cloud, which now these consumers can watch on any device, anywhere, anytime and around the world. So I think that is also going to help us drive some more incremental ARPU with very little cost when you think about adding those Flex View titles. So I think that goes to the FiOS story.

Then, on the second piece with Enterprise, the 1.3% sequential growth, two components really helped with that growth. One was consumer premises equipment. But I will tell you that we have, over the last four quarters, have sequentially increased our price in consumer premise equipment. And I can tell you that we have doubled the margin on the amount of equipment we sell now.

And I can also tell you that we have really moved ourselves away from what we would call drop shipping. We are letting other people play in the drop shipping space. Really where we are selling consumer premises equipment is bundled with our Strategic Services and our IT components.

So then when you took a look at the second component, which is really Strategic Services, we had our best growth of the year at 7.5% increase in Strategic Services. That was really driven by our security portfolio which had a 12% increase year over year. We are gaining momentum in the marketplace on security because of the great ratings that we have gotten from Gartner as the number one global provider of security.

So I think these -- really the Strategic Services is really where we are focused at. The equipment comes with all the other bundles we are selling, but the equipment margin is increasing year over year.

Okay, I think what I will do is I will stop there because I want to get to the next part of the program. So what I'll do now is I'm going to invite Lowell McAdam, our President and Chief Operating Officer, up to the stage, and he will take us through the next phase of the program, which is more of a strategic discussion.

LOWELL MCADAM, PRESIDENT AND COO, VERIZON: Good morning, everybody. Thanks for braving the elements and coming in today. I saw lots of you were interested in all the goodies we have in the back of the room there. I will report nobody stumped the jukebox, however. I know a few of you tried to come up with a song that we could not pull out of memory, but sorry, so far, no winners.

Okay, so, what I would like to do is spend a few minutes this morning telling you where we stand as we enter 2011 and why I believe we are positioned so well to provide greater shareholder returns in the next several years ahead. You know, I'm new in this position and I have spent the last few months of this role traveling around Verizon, immersing myself in the details of the business and getting to know the business in its overall entirety. And the more I do that, the more it is clear to me that Verizon's assets both globally and domestically are really the best in the business.

As you know, we've spent the last several years investing in strategic technologies like FiOS and LTE, as you saw in the back of the room. We have been acquiring critical assets like MCI and Alltel so that we can extend our reach in the global markets and add scale to really deliver more on the bottom line.

We have also divested lower growth, what I would call nonstrategic assets, in the Frontier and the FairPoint transactions so that we can improve our ability to compete and grow in the markets that we choose to serve. So this superior asset base gives us really a solid foothold in the growth markets of the future for broadband, for wireless data, for video and for cloud services. I think businesses that we are seeing now are gaining scale and momentum as we saw in the second half of 2010 and you saw in Fran's presentation earlier this morning.

So I feel very good about the competitive position as we look forward. And I'm confident that we are poised to leverage those assets in 2011 to deliver superior performance for our customers but also to drive higher returns for our shareholders. And I will underscore what Fran said a couple minutes ago; we are a growth and a profitability company, and we're going to continue that track record.

As you see on this slide, I'm not sure it is widely appreciated how thoroughly those investments and those portfolios have really transformed our revenue profile over the last couple of years and differentiated us significantly from our competitors, both in the marketplace and from a shareholder perspective.

If you look at these charts, from 2006, we have grown the revenue base from around $88 billion to $104 billion. And if you look underneath those top-line numbers, we have really transformed that revenue base. Wireless has grown by more than -- to more than 60% of our revenues up from about 43% in 2006. Now the two big drivers, obviously, the Alltel acquisition, but also the rapid growth of Wireless data revenues, and you saw that on some of Fran's charts.

Wireless data and Wireless will now make up 20% of our total revenue, and as you saw in fourth quarter, growing at better than a 25% clip year over year.

You also saw from Fran, together, strategic enterprise services and FiOS account for about 13% of our revenues, up from only 6% in 2006. And you saw both of those segments grew strongly in the fourth quarter. So that means legacy and other services account for just over a quarter of our revenue base, whereas in 2006, they were more than half.

So in a very real sense, we have rebuilt Verizon around the growth markets of the future based on a foundation of superior network that gives us really a set of platforms for innovation that I think is unprecedented in the industry.

You have 3G and 4G wireless. You have the fiber base of FiOS. You have fiber in the backbone. You have got a huge network of cloud and data centers around the globe that really provide those platforms.

Now our networks give us a strong, strategic position that put us at the center of the trends that I believe are going to be driving growth in our industry for the next years to come. With our broadband presence across the US and around the world, we are positioned to grow as the global economy improves. And I think we are all seeing predictions that that is going to be happening in 2011. Customers expect to be connected now wherever they are, and that is an expectation that is driving demand for mobility and broadband connectivity in the home.

Video is evolving into an anytime, anywhere service, and it is fueling that demand for increased speed and bandwidth on both the Wireline and the fixed side of the business. And businesses are shifting to security and secure IP and secure managed services.

Now that shift to IP and digital content and computing power are moving to the cloud, both business and consumer, by the way, which opens up another growth area for companies like Verizon that have integrated assets across the broader ecosystem.

Now one of the real challenges in this anytime, anywhere world is that content flowing across global networks, again, both fixed and mobile, is increasing in the form of video, which taxes the networks like never before. You see some of the growth areas in this chart, five hours spent watching video every day, dramatic increase in mobile and online viewing; increased demand for integrated multi-screen experiences and connected devices, and enormous demands of video over the Internet. More than 90% of Internet traffic by 2014, most of which is going to be streaming. So again, Verizon's investments in bandwidth and capacity both at the edge and in the backbone have prepared us to be a leading player in this multiscreen marketplace.

So it starts with our global capabilities and the Internet backbone facilities. Thanks to the MCI acquisition of a few years ago, Verizon is a major provider of services on a global scale with 180,000 customers around the world. That is in a world that is increasingly depending on transport -- on transporting terabytes of video and data around the world to a wide array of devices.

Our high-capacity global networks position us to accommodate that rapidly increasing demand. We have the Internet backbone in 159 countries on six different continents. We have high-speed undersea cables linking all the world's major markets, where you have the most connected Internet backbone network. And we have been rated that way in 11 of the last 12 years.

We are the first company to deliver commercial long-haul service at 100 GB per second. And we have over 200 data centers around the world that we can deploy to service the cloud demands.

We have also beefed up our capabilities in professional and Strategic Services through acquisitions such as the security firm, Cybertrust, which we purchased a couple of years ago.

Just as important to those physical assets, we have got 3,000 professional consultants in our digital business whose expertise gives us a leg up on growing the market for these managed and intelligent services.

Strategic Services now combine more than 44% of our 15 billion in global enterprise revenues, and we are positioned for even faster growth as we move forward.

So finally, we have a great opportunity to extend our global reach and scale through our partnership with Vodafone, and that is a little bit of a change in strategy for us. In the past, this has really been largely a financial relationship with Vodafone. But now we are putting together a strategy and a structure to operationalize this partnership by aligning our technical roadmaps, by gaining efficiencies through procurement and by putting together unified account teams to handle the multinational, large-enterprise corporations. I think with that talent and resources of the two companies, there is much more that we can do to deliver superior experiences for our global customers and expand into higher growth vertical markets to again deliver greater value for our shareholders.

So the global presence positions us to be a big player in the next generation of computing as well. And where everything we do, media, communications, personal data, network intelligence, security protocols and many more, will be stored in the cloud and then delivered anywhere in the globe. This shift to an everything as a service model expands the addressable market for Verizon's global services dramatically.

Now, experience tells us, as you see on this chart, every time we see a paradigm shift in computing, we see the number of users go up by a factor of 10. And industry analysts like Gartner and IDC size the cloud market at about $120 billion over the next five years with a growth rate in a range of 20% a year. So with those 200 data centers I mentioned, with global IP backbone, with the service portfolio we have, we are better positioned, I believe, than just about anybody to capitalize on this fast-growing market by delivering any content to any device anywhere in the world, with all of the network quality and the reliability that our customers have come to associate with our brand. So in short, our assets put Verizon right in the center of the trends driving growth in our industry.

Now let me shift gears here for a second to FiOS. I talked a moment ago about the growing dominance of video on the Internet. The optimum platform for handling that kind of bandwidth demand is fiber, which is why we made the investment in FiOS when we started building back in 2004. Now we are approaching the end of our FiOS build. Over this last six years, we have completed reaching 15 million households. And when we complete our FiOS build of 18 million households, we'll cover about 70% of our territory.

This fast FiOS network can handle high volumes of streaming video and on-demand content, including 3-D sports, games and entertainment. And recently, as some of you may know, we upped the ante by increasing our throughput speeds to 150 Mb per second. And that really sets a new benchmark in America for high-speed Internet access.

In essence, we have used that FiOS investment to totally reinvent the consumer Wireline business around the growth markets of the future. And there is a question we had a couple of minutes ago, now over 50% of our revenue, right? So now our focus and my focus is on driving that investment to deliver greater returns.

You know, Fran talked overall about the improving financials of the FiOS business, and I think it can generate a lot higher margins as we go forward, and certainly improve the composite margins and ARPUs that we see in the legacy products of the Wireline business.

Customers have responded very strongly to the FiOS product, and we think 32% Internet penetration and 20% TV penetration gives us a lot of opportunity for upside growth.

Now, we are also really excited about the opportunity FiOS brings to further transform the broadband experience and deliver a whole suite of broadband services for the home, and you saw a few of those in the back of the room earlier this morning. We see that fiber connected home becoming the hub for managing all aspects of the customer's digital life. Now what is bringing this long-predicted vision to life is the increasing number of connected devices in the home combined with that high-speed connections and a flood of Web-based content that needs to be managed. And when you layer on the social trends like energy conservation, telework, environmental concerns, we see tremendous opportunity for companies that deliver a truly efficient, integrated connected home solution.

Now with this platform for the future largely in place at this point, we can now focus on using it as that launch pad for the entry into new markets that will leverage that FiOS investment and expand and diversify the revenue stream of the Wireline business. And Fran touched briefly on that in the question and answer session.

We have also spent, though, many years building the premier nationwide wireless platform for the anytime, anywhere era. We have deliberately assembled our national footprint through a series of strategic transactions that you see on this chart that transformed us from regional players by combining GTE, Rural Cellular, PrimeCo, Vodafone, AirTouch, Alltel, into the nationwide player that you see here over the last 15 years. And we have integrated all of these separate companies into a seamless whole, establishing the country's leading Wireless brand.

Also in 2004, we ushered in the area of mobile data by launching our 3G Wireless network which made us the largest, most reliable Wireless voice and data network in the US. Since that time, we have doubled our 3G capacity every year, consistently investing in cell sites, spectrum and backhaul and increasing our throughput speeds. We have bulked up our 3G capacity again in advance of our iPhone launch.

Now I hope you all had a chance to look at the iPhone in the back of the room. I can tell you, I have been using this personally and this is a terrifically performing device and we expect great things of it as we add it to the network.

So the 3G network has been and will continue to be a platform for innovation and technology-driven growth. Now we have accommodated the doubling of usage on our 3G network every year with no degradation of quality. We are the largest provider of Android products in the country, which in 2010, was the fastest-growing platform of any phones in the market. And we have the highest-quality, most loyal customer base in the industry.

And again, this is all before we added the great Apple products to our portfolio that you'll be seeing a lot more of in 2011. So again we think 3G will continue to be a growth engine not for just 2011 but for several years to come.

So now let's shift gears a bit. At the same time, we have been actively preparing for the next generation of mobile broadband growth. In fact, I would say we have been preparing for this over the last decade, as you see on this chart.

Those of you more familiar with our industry know that spectrum really is the lifeblood of the wireless business, and we've consistently added to our spectrum depth and breadth to ensure we have the capacity to meet this large consumer demand that we are seeing. The key transaction was probably in 2007, when we purchased the nationwide spectrum in the 700 MHz range, which paved our way for the investment in a superior 4G LTE network. As you see on this chart, we launched LTE in December in 38 major markets, home to a third of all Americans. We will double that in the next 18 months to some 200 million POPs, and we will blanket the country by the end of 2013.

Now I believe LTE is a real game changer, and I don't use that term loosely because it increased speeds on our network by a factor of 10 and cuts latency in half, which is the piece that many people miss. That makes it suitable for two-way video traffic, real-time applications, cloud computing, and all the other mobile broadband experiences that are going to dominate in this anytime, anywhere world that we talked about. And riding that 700 MHz spectrum, it has significantly better in-building penetration than other so-called 4G technologies. And it dramatically enhances the value proposition that we can bring to customers.

Now customers are already beginning to see the benefits of LTE. Those of you that have been around a while remember the old, oh they won't come; there's not going to be any devices. Well I think -- at CES, we announced a suite of consumer-oriented smartphone tablets and devices for 4G from several manufacturers. We are also working actively with developers and entrepreneurs from across the high-tech industry to expand the market by further developing a robust LTE ecosystem.

Our partnership with Google around the Android platform is just one example. If you happened to be at CES and you went by our booth, we showcased more than 40 devices from 60 different developers, and that was the range from gameplayers, to cars to smart energy to meters, to healthcare devices. And through the open development initiative, we are working with more than 6,000 developers to help integrate their applications and software onto LTE.

Collaboration is how growth and innovation will happen in the wireless market of the future. And we believe our commitment to network innovation, our spectrum position and all of our other blended assets make us the preferred partner for such efforts. All of this, I think, will speed up the innovation cycle and it will position us for growth from a number of areas.

First, a diversified portfolio of devices. You know we are seeing all major manufacturers and platforms are represented. We are going to see increased smartphone penetration. 26% today; I think we will be at 50% by the end of 2011 or even higher.

I think we are going to see increased ARPU for mobile data and video. We are going to see new revenue streams from innovations now just beginning to come to the market like machine to machine. So I think we are ready for this coming mobile broadband era, and we are excited about the opportunity to kick-start another growth cycle in an already vibrant sector of our business.

Now the real magic happens when you put all of this together. You have got LTE, you have got fiber in the network, you have got fiber in the backbone, you have got global IP networks, you have got all the different devices and apps and interactive content being developed to deliver experiences more powerful than anything we have seen to date. And with video and data comprising the bulk of the traffic on mobile and broadband networks, we have a tremendous opportunity to optimize the flow of content across LTE and FiOS to deliver those integrated services to customers wherever they are.

Now our Flex View product, again, I hope you saw it in the back of the room, is an early glimpse at this content-anywhere world, what that will look like.

And as you see on this chart, on our foundation of what I call high IQ networks and that massive cloud infrastructure gives us growth opportunities across every one of our businesses. There are not many providers who can take the customer from their home to work and everywhere in between, wherever they are in the world, and we are one of that select group. And we really believe those high IQ networks are the hub of the wheel that will drive the industry forward.

So the assets I have just described give Verizon that unmatched strategic position in the growth markets of the future. Now my focus is on leveraging those superior assets to deliver superior value to our customers and to our investors. In my mind, these are not separate goals, but they rather exist in a dynamic relationship, that virtuous cycle of investment, execution, growth, profitability, in which success in one area feeds and is therefore fed by all of the others.

So that is why I have challenged the leadership team around Verizon to execute around this model to deliver growth and profitability. So first, consistent investment starts with having the right tools in the toolbox. So we will continue to allocate capital to growth platforms, systems, technologies and product sets.

Second, we have to have strong portfolio management. As we have done in the past, we will continue to actively manage our portfolio to add strategic capabilities through selective M&A where we can and where necessary, and we will exit non-strategic businesses as well.

Third, operating excellence. We need to deliver on the power of our assets through fundamental execution, operating at maximum efficiency and providing customer interactions that live up to the promise of our superior networks.

Fourth, we are going to defend and extend our market position. We have aggressive business plans for competing in the marketplace, growing revenue and taking market share. And as we do that, we will generate profits, and that cash will allow us to keep investing and turning that wheel of this virtuous cycle.

Now, in my time at Verizon Wireless, we had a strong history of execution around profitable growth. And I come into this new position with the same expectation. Anyone who has worked with me for any length of time has heard my philosophy that no matter how good you are doing, how successful you are in others' eyes, there is always opportunity to do better. We call it our higher gear philosophy. And I'm absolutely convinced when it comes to delivering that value for our customers and shareholders, we can raise our game even further in the next several years. Our team is focused on instilling the culture and the incentives across the business to drive performance and execute that game plan that I've laid out for you today. We are very confident that superior execution will lead to superior returns for our shareholders.

Now I know you want to understand how does that translate into the numbers, so I'm going to bring Fran back up at this point to talk about our targets for 2011 and beyond. Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so now we will move to just the guidance that I think everybody showed up to hear today.

So, first, let me just talk about, you heard Lowell talk all about the strategic nature of where we are headed. Let me just tell you where my focus is going to be. Obviously, driving profitable top-line growth. As Lowell said, we are going to continue to invest and allocate capital to those growth areas that we have on our platform, enhance the return on invested capital. I have seen a lot of articles written about the telcos and the invested capital. This is a real concentration for me to make sure that we start to return on what we invest in from a growth platform perspective. Obviously, generating free cash flow, maintaining our dividend policy and returning to our shareholders.

Let's go to the next slide. So if we look at revenue, so from an overall perspective, there are a few things that are flowing into the revenue projection. One, service revenue, 7.7% growth this year. Obviously, we believe that there is more growth there for next year.

Data revenue, 26% penetration. If you paid attention in Lowell's charts, we believe there will be 50% plus by the end of 2012 with all of the devices that we are bringing to the market, both 3G and 4G.

Smartphone penetration, as I said. And then of course, LTE; just in a matter of three weeks, again, 65,000 adds, which were 41% new to Verizon.

On the consumer side, we have FiOS, growing 10.7% in ARPU year over year on a consumer basis; $146 per sub, grew 4% this year. With the launch of Flex View, as I said, 2,000 titles. We sold 45,000 of them in just a matter of six weeks. So there is more potential from the Flex View as we continue to add titles and also as we continue to add TV programs that will be able to be bought through Flex View.

And then on enterprise, overall strategic services grew 7.5%. We see that continuing to escalate as the macroeconomics, if it stays where it is today, if we get any bump in the economy, that will of course drive GDP, which will then enhance the enterprise services side.

And then, of course, you heard Lowell talk about the cloud. You are going to see us move into the cloud space in a very big way in 2011. And we'll talk more about, as the quarters go on, what you can expect us to do -- more growth in the cloud arena. So when you take all of that to combine with the launch of the iPhone, 4% to 8% growth for next year on top-line revenue.

Let's go to the next one, please. This is the fun chart I have. So the fun chart is, don't ask me anymore how long am I going to sustain 47% margins. This is the chart that shows, as Lowell said, it is all about execution and profitability on the Wireless side. And I think we have proven that through the history of where we are.

So from that perspective, let's just move on to the next topic. From an overall perspective, I think it is all about, how do we prepare for the iPhone launch? So on the iPhone launch, when we talk about execution, refer back to the last slide. Okay, we are not going to have any flaws on the execution of the iPhone launch.

The next is if we go to customer service, we have hired over 3,000 people currently who have been trained. And if you think about it, we launched the iPad so that our customer service reps in our stores and in our centers could get used to the interface of the iPhone, which was a pre-launch to the iPhone. So we have trained everyone, extensive training around that.

Then when we go into just overall -- if you could put those four slides back up on the iPhone, please. Thank you.

So if we go to the overall network, we have been preparing the network for expansion for the last year, anticipating the launch of the iPhone. So we are well prepared from a network perspective. And then from a policy change, there are a number of policy changes that are taking effect.

So one is, we have discontinued the new every two for new customers. Now that does not mean that our current base is not qualified to exercise their new every two right; they are. But for new customers, there will no longer be any more new every two. So if you think about that, you can do the math, but before, you would get a $50 to $100 credit going forward on any upgrade. That disappears. The customer will be getting the promotional price at that point in time for a new phone when they qualify.

Second, we are changing our return policy from 30 days to 14 days and even at 14 days, it is still one of the best in the industry.

And then, mostly recently, you will hear more about this in the coming days, but we are launching a trading program. We have entered into an agreement with a third party, where we will be taking trade-ins from anyone who wants to bring us a trade-in phone. They will be getting a credit from the third-party participant, and then we will welcome them into any device that they choose on the Verizon Wireless network. So if you go to the next slide, please.

So from a Wireline overall efficiency, I think we have shown that with our FiOS growth, 53% of the revenue is consumer; in Strategic Services, 44% is global, part of the global enterprise space. Overall consumer access, as I said, is less than 7% of the overall revenue. And we believe there will be cloud acceleration in 2011. In addition, we will continue to drive the cost reductions within Wireline. We will continue to drive the synergies through VSO, on real estate, energy, access cost. So with all that said, I think we are comfortable saying, as I've said in the past, we continue to see margin expansion in our Wireline unit.

If we go to the next slide, please. So from a capital perspective, Wireline capital, as we've said, we have reallocated capital very efficiently this year. So if you look at the Wireline segment, our capital expenditures went down by $1.7 billion. That was reallocated back into Wireless. So Wireless increased by $2 billion, which was really the preface of building capacity on EV-DO for anticipation of the iPhone usage and building out our LTE network.

So from a guidance standpoint on capital for 2011, you can expect it to be flat or slightly down from 2010 performance. But again, I think it is critical that there will be a major reallocation again in 2011 between where that capital is invested. As both Lowell and I said, it will be invested in the growth platforms of the business.

If we go to the next slide, please. So from an EPS, earnings per share, relevancy, but first, before I get there, I think there is a few things we need to talk about. So there is a lot of things that go into projecting an earnings per share for a company. It is not just about an iconic device of the iPhone and what the impact of that is going to be. So if you think about everything that we have talked about here today, the revenue growth in all the segments that Lowell and I have talked about; if you talk about the cost reductions across the board both in Wireless, Wireline and corporate; if you think about the capital efficiency, the cash management efficiency we have, the pension and OPEB planning that we have done; and just to remind everyone on Friday I said that all the changes that we made, the pension and OPEB expense will be zero to slightly positive for 2011.

Now going to the iPhone, if you think about this, there are a lot of things going into projecting what the iPhone volume could be. So one it's all about supply. Two, it is the mix of sales versus upgrades. Three, it is about what is our projection going to be. So I'm probably going to disappoint everyone, but I'm not going to give you an exact forecast that Verizon has for the iPhone. Because there are too many variables that go into this.

So what I have done is I have taken the consensus average, which is 11 million phones, we've put that into the model and given everything else that Verizon is going to do in 2011 based on 11 million units of the iPhone, you will get a 5% to 8% EPS accretion in 2011. Now sensitivity around that is, if I do more than 11 million units then, obviously, I will be on the low side. If I do many more than 11 million units, I may actually pull outside of this range. But I think the important thing here is whatever this 5% to 8% will be based on the units, and, obviously, we will inform that as we go through the year, it just means that much more upside for 2012.

So when you think about this, 2 times is not out of the range for a number for 2012, based on these projections of 11 million units. So you will be hearing more about that as we go from quarter to quarter, but that is more or less the consensus that we have today.

If you go to the next, please? From the shareholder return perspective, obviously, the concentration that Lowell and I have is to continue to return to our shareholders what they expect from us, which is growth in the share price and maintain our dividend policy.

Next slide, please. So overall I think you have heard from Lowell and I -- I'm not going to repeat everything on this slide -- it is just a regeneration of what we just talked about. But I think you can tell that Lowell and I are both focused on delivering what we need to deliver. So at this point I'm going to ask Ivan and Lowell to re-join me back up here on stage and I'm going to open it up to the floor for Q&A.

JOHN DOHERTY: Sorry about that. Lost my mike. Nancy?

PHIL CUSICK, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: In 2012, the 2 times you just mentioned in 2012, what did that refer to? You said 2 times would not be unreasonable in 2012.

FRAN SHAMMO: Based on the 4% to 8% projection --

PHIL CUSICK: So 2X that rate?

FRAN SHAMMO: 2X that rate.

PHIL CUSICK: Got it, thank you. And then second of all, if you could talk about the sort of ARPU subscribers' growth rate on the top line in Wireless in 2011, and then versus Wireline in 2011 how you break up the business on the top line versus that guidance? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, I'm not going to give guidance on specific top-line growth for there. So we will stay at the 4% to 8% on total revenue guidance for the corporation.

JOHN DOHERTY: Sure, we will go to John then, Kevin. Just one clarification, the 2 times is really related to when you were talking to the earnings slide, correct?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, 2 times on the earnings.

JOHN DOHERTY: So the EPS 2011 number, talking 2 times what we had on that slide? Not the revenue number, very specifically.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes.

JOHN HODULIK: Earnings growth in 2012 looks more like 8% to 16% off of a 2011 base. Something like that.

Just on the Wireline side, you talked about all the drivers and wholesale being a bigger one. Is it possible that you think you can get to Wireline growth, obviously, not for the year but maybe by the end of the year or potentially in 2012?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so John, I think as I said, the biggest drag right now is the wholesale side. So on the consumer side, you have growth from FiOS. On the enterprise side, you have growth. So it is really the wholesale side. And I think that as we get through the third quarter on the international traffic situation, I think you will see some improvement there.

Mike Millegan, who is the President of our Wholesale, believes that there are, through the fiber to the cell program that we have, through Ethernet that we have, they actually grew 6.6% year over year within that segment. So as we continue to see some of the decline in the voice side, I do feel that they are could be a potential, if the economy stays steady and we get some growth in the economy and Wholesale comes back, we could be back to a growth in the overall segment.

LOWELL MCADAM: And John, I think I'd add too that I think there is some good, let's say, let's call it, earnings potential on the core side as well. I see lots of opportunities to take more cost out, just by being more efficient, not just on the labor side but more efficient on how we provision, how we maintain so we have fewer dispatches on that side. And as you and I were talking earlier, we have seen a slight decrease in the disconnect side on the core. And if we can keep the quality and the expense in a good position there, I think we can improve overall profitability of the core.

JOHN DOHERTY: All right, just a quick reminder, since not everybody has met everybody, if you could just say who you are and where you are from. With that, I'm going to go over to Jonathan Chaplin, who I certainly know, with Nancy.

JONATHAN CHAPLIN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. So a quick question for Fran. I think you mentioned you expected 50% smartphone penetration by the end of 2011. That is a doubling from where it is at the moment. And I expect it goes higher than that in 2012. It should drive a very significant increase in postpaid ARPU. With that in mind and how accretive to margins that increase in ARPU is, why aren't you expecting more in terms of earnings growth between now and 2012?

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, again, I think you have to look at the holistic picture. But I mean obviously it is because of the iPhone and the subsidy on the iPhone.

JOHN DOHERTY: One follow-up?

JONATHAN CHAPLIN: Yes. So I would expect that to be a big pressure in 2011. So maybe you don't see that EPS growth in 2011, but if you go through to 2012, it is with all the iPhone subscribers that you add in 2011 and the impact that has on ARPU, I would have expected a bigger jump than 10% to 16% in earnings.

FRAN SHAMMO: Well, at this point, what I said was under the assumption of the 11 million units, you could factor in a 2 times. But at -- at the end of the day, I'm not giving guidance on 2012 because I don't know yet what the total volume will be in 2011.

LOWELL MCADAM: We have got a couple of, I think, significant moving pieces here. Obviously, the iPhone is one of them, but if you take a look at the 4G devices that we have got outside, I mean they are terrific devices, and the tablets that go along with those. We are working very hard with lots of different developers to bring new applications. I mean that -- there is a lot of upside. And I can tell you later this afternoon, Ivan and I will meet with the employees and we will be talking a lot more than 50%. But I think where we have got to be very careful that we guide you in a prudent and conservative way, and that is kind of where we are at this point.

JOHN DOHERTY: Why don't we go over to Simon.

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, thanks very much. I think you mentioned, Lowell, about depending on iPhone supply. Can you just give us some clarity around that? Is this a situation where you are going to have some significant backorders in the February/March period? And then be obligatory Verizon Wireless, Vodafone dividend question, what is the latest on that? What is the timing we should think about there?

LOWELL MCADAM: Those two questions are interesting bedfellows, I have to say there, Simon. Okay, so on the supply side, you all see the different forecasts. And we've spent a lot of time with Steve and Tim talking about what we might expect, not only existing iPhone subscribers but there is a lot of people on other networks that are interested in that device on the Verizon network.

So from that part, you can be wildly optimistic or you could be conservative. Now you also have to factor in, you remember last year, we ended up with a shortage of screens and some of the basic components because -- as we came -- as we started to come out of a little bit of a downturn. So our hesitancy to give you a strong number on supply is just we don't know whether we will be able -- the demand is very variable and some of the components are variable. But we feel very good on hitting the kind of numbers that Fran talked to you about.

Now on Vodafone, I think I need to re-emphasize that I'm trying to change this from a pure financial partnership to an operating partnership. If you look back over the last 11 years, our technologies were so apart it made it -- far apart -- it made it difficult to sort of reach across the aisle and do a lot of things together. Well, they have launched LTE in Germany. Obviously, we have launched LTE.

We see now, especially when you look at all the things I talked about on the asset side, that them working with us from not only just wireless but from the business side, really is a competitive advantage for both of us.

Now we've said over the years that eventually, we will be into a place where we will be giving a dividend. I mean to me they contributed the assets. We knew this day was coming. You know, it will be a fair dividend. We will get their support for making additional investments in the business. That is the key for us, is to keep Verizon Wireless very healthy. And if there is excess cash on that, then we will dividend it out, and Fran will use some for our investments across the business and Vittorio will use some.

But I think that as we get to the end of this year, we will sit down and we will talk about it in the Board and we will figure out what a fair and reasonable dividend is.

JOHN DOHERTY: Why don't we go over to Jason.

JASON ARMSTRONG: Just one follow-up. I guess one of the key inputs is around iPhone subs, where they are coming from. And if the consensus is 11 million units, can you help us think through, in percentage terms, is it more weighted towards external? Is it internal smartphone upgrades, which I guess you're doubling smartphone percentage would suggest it is not. Or is it existing feature phone upgrades? Maybe help us think through that.

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so I think a couple of important facts here, Jason, is, one is, if you look at our current base today, 52% of that base is on feature phones with no data plan. There is another 15% on multi-video type devices which only had a $10 data plan at that time, which you know now we don't -- we have discontinued that line. So within our own base, there are 67% of the people who can upgrade and bring more ARPU with them. So if you think about a feature phone customer going to a smartphone, the ARPU on that is 2 times what they deliver on a feature phone. So I think it is important because I don't know exactly what the mix will be at this point in time.

So -- but I think it is important to know that there is tremendous growth within our own base by moving that base to smartphones, whether it be an iPhone or a DROID or some other device. So I think as you think through that, I think you have to look at the overall base plus what will be coming in from new.

JOHN DOHERTY: All right, so that we're not leaving the back of the room out, I'm going to go Jim Peshek, with a question from the back.

JIM RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, Jim Ratcliffe, Barclays Capital. Two questions, quickly, Fran, did I hear you say that you will not be offering the $15 data plan for iPhone customers?

FRAN SHAMMO: The $15 promotional price that was offered will be discontinued at the end of this month.

JIM RATCLIFFE: Thanks. And you have chosen to take legal action to push back against the FCC's net neutrality proposals. How do you see those affecting the business, whether those proposals actually take effect or not, in particular regarding applications like Flex View?

IVAN SEIDENBERG: (multiple speakers). I don't think it will affect it at all. I think the FCC decision is kind of a far-reaching one. I think that most of the impact of that order will not be felt this year, but over the longer term, it would be felt if the FCC actually exercised all the authority.

Just for a point, if you actually read the rules they put in effect, the rules don't sound anywhere near as troublesome as the order which encourages the FCC to seek broader authority over time. So I don't think it will have any effect on the current business but I do believe that longer term, we need to challenge the expansion of the FCC's authority there.

IVAN SEIDENBERG: You know since I have the floor let me just add a point to that last couple of questions on this guidance question. You know Fran and Lowell have tried to give you as much guidance as we can. There is a couple of unknowns here that I think it is worth just slowing you down a little bit.

So we can get into this contest of, so we think we know how many people will switch from T to us. We don't really know the answer to that. We know you are being subjected to lots of discussion around that. We do believe that our brand and our network will drive a lot of people.

But, so Jonathan, to your point about what will earnings look like in the future? Why don't you do this, over the next couple of quarters, as we get some experience on volumes, we will share with you what those results look like, and I think you'll get a better view. It is much better than overestimating something that we don't know.

The other point is that we also believe that all our strategies will frankly lift the whole industry. So yes, this is about us today, but I think that as all these 4G and 3G devices get out there, you will find all of the carriers doing better. Our view is, we will do better because of the position we have established, but the entire base is going to move from feature phones up to smartphones over the course of the next 12 months. So I think you are sitting in a really good spot when we look at the entire industry's growth. And obviously we believe we will have an edge on that. But I think when you look at these numbers, my advice is be careful about 2011. And 2012 and 2013 will absolutely be clear to you once you get to the middle of the year.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY & CO.: Chris Larsen from Piper Jaffray. Fran, could you talk a little bit about the optimal capital structure? And within that, not just at the corporate level but also at the wireless level. Going back to the dividend question, arguably, the Wireless business will be under-levered if it was a stand-alone business. Do you think about it as a stand-alone business when you think about that capital structure?

And then do you think maybe it makes sense to lever that up and then cash that out to the parents? And then what is the proper leverage ratio for Verizon?

And then a second question, as you look at the last 30% of your access lines that are not going to have FiOS, what is the long-term strategy for those access lines? Thank you.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so I will take the capital and maybe I will have Lowell take the long-term strategy on the access lines for the LTE. But on the capital structure, I think the way we look at it is, as we said, we are going to continue to de-lever. So that de-lever will happen in the Wireless unit. I'm not going to lever just to distribute cash to the parent. That is not going to happen.

But I'm also not going to build cash in wireless either. As Lowell spoke about when the time comes, we will start to deliver cash to the share owners.

So I think that is how you have to look at this, but overall we will continue to manage our capital structure. We will continue to manage our debt levels and refinancing and position, taking advantage of some of the better interest rates in the marketplace. So we will continue to do all that. But I think as we said, our target for EBITDA to debt ratio were at 1.3 today and we will continue to de-lever that.

LOWELL MCADAM: (multiple speakers). So on the core, and the 30% that is left. So let me tell you, my priorities first are to get better penetration on FiOS. Every customer I talk to, every investors -- you name it, if they had FiOS, they have used FiOS, they go wholly cat, I did not think there was a difference. There is a difference and they love it.

So I have got to go back to what we did with Verizon Wireless in the beginning when all the carriers were viewed the same and we came out with the, 'Can You Hear Me Now' campaign and people really appreciated reliability. We are going to find that message so that we can get penetration up. When you get penetration up, the profitability changes so that equation may change as well.

Now we are also going to, as I said earlier, work on the basic profitability of that 30% to try to make that better. If we can sustain it, I think we have a tendency and I think all of you have a tendency to sort of write things off very early on.

If we get to the point where we do those two things and it does not make sense for us then we will look at additional dispositions. It depends on where the properties are and that sort of thing. So I'm not ruling out anything. But my number one priority is to make FiOS more profitable and stabilize the other core assets.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Fran, do you think this revenue growth is sustainable for a few years? And you gave a lot of different metrics on the Wireless data front. Could you maybe talk about what the penetration right now is of your subscriber base that have a data plan, and maybe what the average ARPU of that data plan is?

And related to that somewhat, I know it is complex, but, do you think Wireless broadband can start to cannibalize Wireline broadband given the speeds and maybe the capacity upgrades you see in the next couple years?

FRAN SHAMMO: Yes, so from a guidance perspective, I'm not going to get into that detailed of a guidance between what the ARPU growth will be. And I mean what we say is we are at 26% penetration on data today. We will be at 50% plus; data revenue is 2 times that of a feature customer, so that is where we are at.

As far as cannibalization from LTE, I think what you have to look at is, I don't think that the broadband connection to the home with the speeds that are being enabled at 150 Mb per second through FiOS, that is going to go away. I think that given the amount of content that will be put into that home I don't think that will be a displacement for broadband connection.

However, I do believe that when you get out into the rural areas, there are -- there is going to be some opportunities and I will pass it to Lowell. He can talk about the DirecTV relationship and what we have done there.

LOWELL MCADAM: Well, we have got a couple of things. You know, we have licensed our 700 MHz in some of the very rural markets that we were not going to get to for a while to the rural carriers so that they could get that infrastructure up and operating. And as Fran mentioned, we have got a number of trials with DirecTV where we have bundled -- we have got a special antenna that we have developed together, but we have bundled the video service together with a high-speed Internet access service. And that, again, works very well in the rural markets.

So there is ways to get in there. My view is, over time, if I look over my years, the wireless will sort of nibble away at the low end of the Wireline offering. But it is very difficult to beat a dedicated facility into somebody's house. And certainly it is not on any roadmap I have seen where we're going to hit 150 MB in a broad wireless deployment.

JOHN DOHERTY: We are running a little over, but you guys have been real well behaved, so we will take a few more. Why don't we go up front. Let's go with Michael and then we will go over to David.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI: A couple questions. First on the Wireline side, management earlier last year pointed out I think a $1.5 billion plus goal for cost-cutting through the end of 2011. Can you give us an update in terms of where you are along that road map?

And then secondly, Ivan, earlier this past month, talked about changes in management compensation that Fran made. And I was wondering if you could detail a little bit more maybe about how some of the high-level goals or strategies for incentive compensation were changed. Thanks.

FRAN SHAMMO: Okay, so addressing the cost savings program, we, with the $1.5 billion, I don't remember that figure quite honestly. But from running the operating unit during the year, we obviously achieved a significant reduction of employees. We closed over 7 million square feet of real estate. We either sold it, or closed to it or subleased it.

We have significantly reduced the cost, as I said before, from a FiOS perspective. We have gotten more efficient as we have gone on. So I think at the end of the day, we achieved what we said we would achieve which was we were going to expand the Wireline margin which we did. And I think going into next year, as Lowell has said, that is going to be the consistent strategy going forward.

From just an overall compensation standpoint, as Ivan had mentioned, we moved more risk to cash flow away from revenue. Obviously, you can see from the charts, the revenue growth is not going to be really quite an issue, but we have to make sure that we generate the cash flow at the bottom, both in the Wireline unit and the Wireless unit.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: Lowell or Fran, could you talk about this, again, this 26% to 50% plus smartphone evolution. In the base today, if 25% are smartphones, those guys are generating $80, which means that the other 75% are generating $40. So your game plan is to take a big portion of those people who pay $40 today and turn them into $80s over the course of the year. That is a lot of money for the next 25% to 50% of the base in terms of their income and getting them off the curve. So could you kind of talk a little bit about how you really make that happen because it seems like a very aspirational goal?

And I guess my second question if I could, Ivan, you announced that Lowell would be your successor last year. Could you talk a little bit about how you see your succession plan evolving this year in 2011? Thanks.

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay. So you are concerned, you think the 50% is conservative? I just want to make sure -- I mean I get what you said about the feature phone. I will get to that. But your belief is the 50% is conservative?

DAVID BARDEN: Well no; I think the -- the question is, to get from 26% penetration of people paying you $80 to 50% penetration of people paying you something much more than the $40 they are paying you now, you've really got to create either a much lower cost of entry or bridge them somehow from an economic standpoint because it seems like the first 30% of America is paying $100 or $80 for a smartphone, no problem. The next 25% of Americans that are going to have a bigger problem coming up with that wallet, and how do you get them there?

LOWELL MCADAM: So I think, so we can talk about this for a while here. That is I would say is right if you looked at the entire base of Wireless customers in the US. But remember over, the last 10 years, we have gone for that high-end customer and their families. And what we see, when we bring out a great phone like the DROID, and I expect it's going to happen exactly that way with the iPhone, is we pull a lot of family share lines with them. Now in the past, those were $9 lines. In the future they are going to have the $39 or whatever our data package is associated with those. And what we see is once people get those phones in their hand, they say I can live with a flip phone. We tease Ivan. He still carries a flip phone once in a while. But when they get those smartphones in their hands, the usage goes up. They get on the unlimited plans or they move up in tiers. So I actually feel good about -- and when Fran shared some of his charts -- having those feature phone customers moving up with the set of devices we have and the clientele we have, I don't see that as a big problem.

IVAN SEIDENBERG: So let me just add to that. So part of your question is, you assume the available discretionary income for Wireless is fixed. That is what your question was. We assume that even if you are half right, there are other things that will drive people to use Wireless products, medical services, going green. The business revenues will significantly increase as you go to data because people will have more work at home.

We have customers -- we have large companies coming to us -- we have one large one who had said to us we want every employee to work out of home. And so I think there is an opportunity to take this data platform and extend it to parallel industries. And so the revenue pie we are looking into is much bigger than the one that you think exists today. So not only will those $40 customers become higher data users, but the $80 customers will go to $105 and $110.

The other thing we have missed in this discussion is, I have been saying this, but my guess is that at least half this audience today is carrying two devices on them. Two years ago, you guys would say that could never happen, and half of you now have two devices. Our view is when you get to machine to machine and all these other things you are going to find people carrying three and four devices. So I don't subscribe to the theory that the pie remains static. So I think that answers part of your question.

Now the succession plan is based on what I just said being true, which is that if we're really looking at this expansion of the pie and we take these two great guys, and you know when you think about succession you call up Madison Avenue, you have got to get one guy with white hair and one guy that is angry all the time. So that is what we have. We have one guy that's white haired and one guy that is angry all the time.

And so what -- our Board is in a place where they have asked me to work with Fran and Lowell through this year some time, I've said this before -- sometime in the second-half of the year, Lowell will become CEO, and I will spend a few more months after that as probably Chair or whatever the Board wants. And by the end of the year, we will have the transition completed.

Most of you know transitions have a lot of components to them, running your company, meeting the outside stakeholders, partners, politics, boards, investors, so we are working through all of that. Today as part of that drill.

Hopefully you saw a plan today from two people that have a very expansive view of the future and a really sound, solid record of execution. So I think for me, this is an easy transition but there is still a few things that need to be done between now and the end of the year and we will get them done. Okay?

JOHN DOHERTY: Why don't we go to Kevin with Kevin. That's an easy one for me.

KEVIN SMITHEN, ANALYST, MACQUARIE SECURITIES: Kevin Smith at Macquarie. Equally impressive to your 872,000 net adds this quarter was the 9% retail postpaid upgrades to smartphones, and the 63% new to category I think bodes well for your 50% smartphone targets.

The question is, with all of the hoopla surrounding the iPhone launch, you obviously had very, very strong momentum on Android and BlackBerry in Q4. How do you keep that momentum with the iPhone launch and continue to drive success in all of your smartphones in 2011?

LOWELL MCADAM: Well, I think you saw it in the back of the room. The 4G device lineups we have from major manufacturers are terrific devices. So the iPhone sort of establishes its own gravitational pull. But if you look at the CES show and how much attention we got around LTE and you look at the breadth of those devices, I really feel good. And we frankly worked very hard to get here, is that we would have a balanced approach.

One thing we said we would never allow ourselves to do is to become a one-phone company. And we are a portfolio company, and I think we have positioned ourselves that way. And what -- the message I was trying to send earlier today is that portfolio is also broad when you look at the enterprise side and the FiOS side and the Wireless side. So we will not be one-business focused and we certainly will not be one-device focused.

PETER RHAMEY, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: No one has talked about it so maybe it is a good one. Enterprise, to what extent is enterprise -- look for 2011 and 2012 really just about the economy recovering? And to what extent -- you talk about cloud. It seems to be on the top of everyone's mind, but I don't quite get the contribution that cloud is going to make anytime soon. It's our J curve investment. So could some -- one of you address the issue with respect to the outlook for enterprise, talk about cloud, the economy; and just lastly, is Vodafone synergies built into any numbers that you put out there for 2011, 2012?

LOWELL MCADAM: Okay, well Fran can take the synergy side. We do see lots of opportunity with Vodafone around procurement and hitting these accounts but Fran can talk about the numbers.

So enterprise, no, I think it is much more than just the economy. Certainly the economy will help. But as you see the different applications -- and cloud is a very interesting thing. Everybody is talking about it. But what we find, what I find interesting is you sit down with a customer and you start to have a security discussion. You know, the cyber trust is usually where we start the discussion. They have got things that they want to get out on the mobile network. They are very concerned about the security of it. We bring -- Peter Tippett and the team in, and we do the discussion. And then it turns into well, now you can store that application for me on your cloud and deliver it around the world. So I think that the economy, certainly, will help but I think that some of those applications will get us up that curve, very quickly, I think, quicker than we think.

FRAN SHAMMO: Then to answer the question on synergies, no, there is nothing baked into the plan.

JOHN DOHERTY: And with that, we are going to bring it to a close with Ivan making a few closing remarks.

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, so thank you very much. I thought I would make just two or three closing points that will address some of your questions and put a bridge between what we tried to do this morning and where you guys are.

One of the things we wanted to do this morning was establish a good foundation for our performance in 2010, and let you understand that we feel good about the fact that the beginning of the year, we did not think the year would turn out a strong as it did at the end of the year, and there were some reasons why; you heard that. And you can see clearly the difference that Lowell and Fran are making are on the focus on execution in the Company to make that happen.

What we wanted to do with the iPhone in 2011 is pretty simple. So to put this in perspective, for those of you who are into conspiracies and into looking for other meaning to life, so you would think that this is my last year, so I would want to make sure that the year went smoothly. I also wanted to make sure my colleagues did not over-promise and get in the doghouse for the next two or three years. So I purposely made sure that whatever they told you this morning represented a fairly conservative but doable plan.

So the issue for the iPhone is we don't have all the answers. We personally believe we will probably do better than most people think but we did not want to set any standard because we don't know the number of people who will pour it, we are not sure what the inventory flows will be, we are not really sure of how all that will time out. But we are sure by the time you get to the end of the year, 2012 will look a lot stronger than 2011. So we've told you everything we know. And that is kind of where we are at this point.

We also wanted to make sure that when you think about the whole Company, you don't just focus on the iPhone, but you look at the breadth of the assets that we have and the opportunities that we have to grow the Company.

Probably the most important issue -- I will close on this -- for 2011, there is a lot of stuff written about earnings for 2011 will slide backwards because of the iPhone as opposed to going forward. Hopefully you got this morning a sense from management that we are not accepting the idea that because we get a new iconic device in the system, that was an excuse for us to reduce our focus on growing the base in 2011, so we are going to work really hard to do that.

Part of that -- Fran drove this -- he changed compensation for people to say don't ride on the fact we know we are going to have higher revenues because of both the growth of FiOS and the growth of smartphones. So he made sure our management understands that driving more EBITDA growth this year is a really important issue. So I think the Company is positioned in a good place.

I also would make the comment again, just so you get a sense of this, I also think the entire industry is going to do better. So I'm not trying to help the other -- my colleagues in their assessments, but what I want to make sure is that you understand we believe the investments we have made, some of the investments they are making, will grow the pie. We happen to think we will index better than they will, but the fact is the overall pie for this sector will grow.

I want to thank Fran and Lowell, of course, and John for what they have done. Thank you all for bearing with us. I know two hours is a long time for a conference but those of you who were here, thank you; those of you on the website, thank you. And we will be back at you at the end of the first quarter. Thank you.

JOHN DOHERTY: You are welcome to stick around. And please join me in thanking Ivan, Lowell, Fran, as well as the whole team to help us pull it off.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon conference services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | ibrdbi : Broadband Infrastructure | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c151 : Earnings | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ccrly : Customer Retention/Loyalty | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c26 : Product Safety | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110208e71p000p3
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,616 words
   PD
22 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. John Doherty, Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.

   TD
JOHN DOHERTY, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm John Doherty. With me this morning is John Killian, our Chief Financial Officer, and Fran Shammo, who will be assuming the CFO role on November 1.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

As I'm sure you are aware, we published reclassified historical financial information for the past six quarters for the results associated with the Frontier transaction, as well as the divested Wireless Trust properties.

In addition, we have reclassified prior period Wireless results with a deferred revenue adjustment that we recognized in the second quarter of 2010. The financial and operating metrics included in our slides are, therefore, presented on a comparable basis. However, on the balance sheets and statements of cash flows, prior periods were not reclassified for the impact of the divested properties.

On a GAAP basis, we reported earnings of $0.31 per share in the third quarter. These quarterly results include a total of $0.25 of nonoperational charges, which are listed on slide four. The largest item is a non-cash charge of $0.19 per share relating to the recognition of pension settlement losses resulting from our workforce reduction and separation plans. Pension accounting rules require that settlement losses be recorded once prescribed payment thresholds have been reached.

In connection with the closing of the Frontier spinoff, we also incurred a charge of $0.04 per share for certain nonoperational and transaction-related costs.

The last item is merger integration costs related to Alltel. During the third quarter, charges related to these activities amounted to $0.02 per share.

With that, I will now turn the call over to John Killian.

JOHN KILLIAN, EVP & CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with some comments on our overall performance and add some of my perspective to our third-quarter results.

The business is performing extremely well. We had another solid quarter, and we continue to execute well in our key focus areas. We had strong earnings performance in the quarter, showing sequential improvement.

On our last conference call, I stated that our goal was to grow earnings in the second half of the year by 5% to 10% from our first-half adjusted base of $1.01 per share. Our third-quarter results indicate that we are on track to meet this goal and expect to be at the high end of this guidance.

Wireless had a very good quarter with accelerating revenue growth driven by strong postpaid ARPU accretion. New customer additions and device upgrades once again resulted in higher smartphone sales and drove data revenue increases, and we sustained our Wireless EBITDA margin of 47.2%, which remains by far the highest in the industry.

In Wireline we continue to make steady progress. We had a very strong quarter of customer growth in FiOS with our third consecutive quarter of sequential improvement, adding more than 200,000 new customers in both TV and Internet, our highest net add totals since the second quarter of 2009. Revenues in global enterprise were stable, showing modest sequential improvement, and while the Wireline revenue picture is essentially unchanged, we were able to improve our EBITDA margin on a sequential basis, coming in more than 20 basis points higher than last quarter at 21%. We will talk more about this in a few minutes, but we feel confident that our workforce and other cost reduction efforts have stabilized Wireline profitability, and we should continue to see these benefits in the fourth quarter.

In terms of cash generation, we had another outstanding quarter. Our improved business performance and tight controls on capital have resulted in significant increases in free cash flow for the first nine months of the year. And our focus on reducing leverage has improved our key credit metrics and strengthened the balance sheet.

I would also highlight that our Board of Directors approved a 2.6% dividend increase in September, which on an annual basis is an increase from $1.90 to $1.95 a share. This marked the fourth consecutive year of dividend increases. So all-in-all we are pleased with our continued strong performance.

Let's now move to our more detailed review of the quarter, starting with some financial highlights on slide four. Reported earnings for the quarter were $0.31 per share. The non-operational charges amounted to $0.25, so you can see that gets us to a $0.56 quarterly result. So we're building solid earnings momentum. I would point out that we saw about a $0.01 EPS benefit in the third quarter due to a lower effective tax rate post the Frontier spinoff. For the full-year 2010, absent any further significant tax law changes, you should expect that the adjusted effective tax rate attributable to Verizon will be in the 31% to 32% range. Consolidated topline growth accelerated 2.1% year over year and drove an 8.3% increase in operating income. Our adjusted EBITDA margin also expanded 130 basis points to 33.4%. And cash flow continues to be very strong.

One additional point on earnings, we are seeing sequential improvement. Slide five shows our quarterly earnings on a comparable basis. So our $0.56 per share this quarter is a 7.7% improvement over the second quarter. Let's spend a few more minutes on cash flow, dividends, capital spending and debt on slide six.

Cash flow from operations in the third quarter totaled $8.3 billion, and free cash flow was $4.2 billion. On a year-to-date basis, cash flow from operations of $25.2 billion is up 9.1%, and free cash flow of $13.4 billion is up $2.7 billion or 25.3%.

In addition, we received $3.1 billion in cash from the Frontier transaction in early July that we used to reduce debt, and a cash distribution of about $440 million from Omnitel this quarter.

As I highlighted earlier, our board approved a dividend increase for the fourth consecutive year, demonstrating their confidence in the strength of our cash flow and balance sheet and our commitment to return cash to shareholders.

In addition, our shareholders received $1.85 per share in value through the Frontier transaction in July.

I can assure you that we have adequate dividend coverage based on our cash flow and our capital spending outlook. We had no material funding requirement for our qualified pension plans in 2010. And, as is customary, we fund our other post-retirement benefit plans on a pay-as-you-go basis out of operating cash flows.

Looking at capital we spent $4.2 billion during the third quarter, which was 4.5% less than a year ago. On a year-to-date basis, total CapEx was $11.8 billion, 4.9% below the first nine months of last year. During the year we have effectively reallocated capital between our operating segments, reflecting growth opportunities. In Wireless, capital spending is higher than last year, driven by 4G LTE deployment and network capacity requirements. Wireless CapEx totaled $6.2 billion year-to-date, which is an increase of $1.1 billion or about 21%. In Wireline, capital spending is down, reflecting lower FiOS deployment capital, as planned, and our tight focus on spending to increase free cash flow. Wireline CapEx was $5.1 billion year-to-date, a decrease of $1.5 billion or 23%.

Looking ahead we expect that our total capital spending for the year will be at the low end or slightly below our targeted range of $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion for 2010.

In terms of the balance sheet, a top priority has been to reduce leverage. We are doing very well here with net debt of $47.8 billion at the end of the third quarter, down $12.5 billion or 20.7% since the beginning of the year. Our net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio has improved to about 1.4 times, and we expect to be even lower by the end of the year.

Let's take a look at our revenue trends, which are on slide seven. Our overall revenue performance is improving, and we saw an acceleration of growth in the third quarter on a comparable basis. Consolidated quarterly revenues of $26.5 billion were up $550 million or 2.1% from a year ago. Growth was driven by solid performance in all our strategic areas, which comprised roughly 2/3 of our total revenue. We will get into more detail at the segment level, but we saw an uptick in Wireless service revenue growth driven, of course, by strong data performance. We had a very good quarter in FiOS with year-over-year revenue growth of more than 29%, and growth in strategic enterprise services is accelerating, up nearly 7%.

With that high level summary of revenues, let's move to the segments next, starting with Wireless on slide eight.

Our Wireless business turned in another very good quarter, particularly with respect to revenue growth. Total revenue grew to $16.3 billion in the quarter, up $919 million or 6% year over year. And growth in total service revenue accelerated to 7.7% in the third quarter, our highest year-over-year growth rate since the second quarter of 2009. Our continued focus on expanding the market for mobile broadband drove data revenue to $5.1 billion this quarter, up 26.3% over last year. That is more than $1 billion of growth in just one year.

We continue to make excellent progress in terms of increasing our smart phone penetration with 23% of our retail postpaid base with these devices. We feel very good about our current portfolio of smartphones, and we've built great momentum in a short period of time with the DROID franchise. Our recent announcement to begin selling Apple iPads in our retail locations is designed to stimulate sales of our MiFi devices, which have already become quite popular with customers.

We are performing well in this very competitive marketplace, but as confident as we are about our ability to compete today, we are even more excited about the future.

Earlier this month at a CTIA event in San Francisco, Lowell McAdam announced our Phase I 4G LTE launch locations. Our plan is to cover more than 110 million pops in 38 major metropolitan areas and 62 airports by the end of this year. The next phase will expand coverage to about 200 million pops over the next 18 months. By the end of 2013, we will have virtually the same nationwide coverage we have today on 3G. With Wireless data revenue exceeding $5 billion this quarter, it is hard to believe that we are still in the early innings in terms of this revenue growth opportunity but we are. We are very excited about mobile broadband, and we believe the growing interest in smartphones, tablets and other devices signals a new wave of growth for the industry. With the commercial launch of LTE just around the corner, we are extremely well-positioned in this expanding market. We firmly believe that our network advantage will become even more of a differentiator for Verizon, given the consistent and substantial investment in our Wireless network over many years.

Let's now turn to our customer and connection results on slide nine. We had a solid quarter of growth, adding about 1 million net new customers and about 250,000 other connections. In the retail postpaid market, we had 584,000 net adds and a strong quarter in terms of device sales. Retail postpaid gross adds in the quarter were up 9.8% sequentially, and device upgrades were also higher. Our performance in the reseller channel was also very good with 550,000 net adds this quarter. As we've said before, the reseller market continues to be a low-cost channel for us and an effective way for us to attract incremental prepaid customers. We ended the quarter with 93.2 million total customers with 88% of the base being retail postpaid, 5% retail prepaid and 7% reseller. In terms of other connections, we had a total of 7.9 million machine to machine connections, which include vehicle tracking and telematics.

Let's take a closer look at our retail performance on slide 10.

As you know, our key focus is on the retail postpaid market where we continue to drive revenue growth by increasing data usage and driving higher smartphone penetration. Retail service revenues in the quarter grew 5% year over year. Retail postpaid ARPU increased 2% compared with the year ago, sharply higher than the year over year accretion we saw in each of the first two quarters of this year.

As I mentioned a moment ago, we had another strong quarter of overall device sales of about 9.5% of our existing postpaid customers upgrading to a newer device, our highest level since the fourth quarter last year. Our churn metrics, although a bit higher than the second quarter due to seasonality, were excellent once again this quarter. Retail postpaid churn was 1.07%, and total churn was 1.36%.

In terms of smartphones sales, we now have 23% of our retail postpaid base with these devices. That is up substantially from last year, and there is plenty of headroom left. About 43% of device sales from our direct channels this quarter were smartphones, taking into account both gross adds and upgrades, and 60% of our existing postpaid customers buying smartphones were new to the category. So this is significant in terms of incremental data revenue for us.

Revenue from Web and e-mail services increased to more than $2.7 billion this quarter, up about 43% from a year ago. Messaging, which makes up about 36% of data revenue, is still showing good growth, up 11% on a year-over-year basis. And we have made rapid progress in a relatively short period of time adding 8.4 million smartphones customers and increasing data ARPU by 17.6% in the past 12 months. We believe penetration and data ARPU growth could really explode over the next several years, particularly in light of the growth opportunities in front of us with LTE.

In terms of profitability, we had another excellent quarter, generating $6.7 billion of EBITDA, up 11.4% from a year ago. Our third-quarter service EBITDA margin was 47.2%, driven by strong data revenues, churn improvement and the continued benefit of Alltel synergies.

Looking ahead you can expect us to continue achieving both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market and increasing the penetration of smartphones and other data devices which will drive continued data revenue growth.

Let's move to our Wireline segment on slide 13. On the consumer side, our broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew 29.2% year over year, and FiOS ARPU, which now exceeds $146, is up more than 6% over the third quarter last year. On the enterprise side, we had our second consecutive quarter of sequential revenue improvement, and growth in strategic services, which include security, IP and other managed solutions, continues to transform the revenue mix. In global wholesale, revenues continue to be impacted by the effect of some international price changes on specific routes, which were introduced last quarter to better manage margins.

Let's take a closer look at the consumer and business markets, starting on slide 14.

This time last year FiOS made up about 40% of consumer revenue. At the end of the third quarter, it was up to 50%. The increasing scale of FiOS and the strength of the broadband and video product is driving positive revenue and ARPU growth and mitigating the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business. Consumer revenue in the quarter grew 1.1% versus last year. We continue to see strong growth in consumer ARPU, which increased to $86.55 this quarter, up 10.9% from a year ago.

As I said earlier, we had strong sequential customer growth, adding about 19% more FiOS customers this quarter to our TV services and about 17% more to our Internet product compared with last quarter. We ended the third quarter with a total of 3.3 million FiOS TV customers, adding 204,000 compared with the 172,000 in the second quarter.

On the broadband side, we added 226,000 new FiOS Internet customers compared with 193,000 last quarter, bringing our total to 3.9 million. Adding in high speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with a total of 8.3 million broadband connections. Underlying the strong performance is the fact that our FiOS customer satisfaction is very high and our churn rates are very low. So we are pleased with the progress we are making with FiOS financially, operationally and competitively.

The good news about our success in penetration increases this quarter is that the improvements are evident throughout our entire FiOS footprint. Our focus has shifted from a geographic expansion mode to a focus on sales mode. Our goal is to increase FiOS penetration in markets where the service is already available and close the gap between homes passed and homes open for sale. The launch of our nationwide, no contract required, worry free guarantee has helped sales, particularly in the MDU market where apartment dwellers in large urban cities tend to be more transient and may be more hesitant to sign two-year contracts. And we focused our marketing message to emphasize our product differentiation. This focus on sales and increasing penetration is paying off. In our more mature FiOS markets, we are still seeing consistent penetration gains. Penetration in some of these markets is in excess of 35%, and a few are in excess of 40% penetration.

As you would expect, in our less mature markets, we have significantly more room to grow. So we are optimistic about our ability to further increase penetration and continue our growth path over the next several years.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 16, which shows our global enterprise and global wholesale revenue performance. While revenues in the business market continued to be affected by macroeconomic pressures, we are seeing some signs of stability. Global enterprise revenue of $3.9 billion was up modestly on a sequential basis and down 0.8% year over year, primarily due to foreign currency effects. And while the quarter once again included strong CPE sales, we also saw improvements in revenue from network and solutions-based services. Strategic services, which now represent about 43% of global enterprise revenue, grew 6.9% year over year and 3.1% sequentially. Strategic networking like private IP and ethernet services continue to show steady growth as do strategic solutions. So, again, we are seeing some signs of stabilization, but we're still cautious in our optimism as usage volumes and unemployment figures have not shown any significant change.

In global wholesale, revenues declined 10.2% year over year and 1.3% sequentially. Domestically, voice revenues continue to be impacted by secular pressures and lower usage volumes. Internationally we made a decision earlier this year to increase voice pricing in certain routes, which has resulted in some loss of business in this highly competitive market. While the strategy has resulted in revenue declines, it is having the desired effect as absolute margins on those routes have improved sequentially.

Let's cover Wireline profitability next. In the third quarter, EBITDA increased by $31 million, resulting in a more than 20 basis points sequential improvement in our EBITDA margin to 21%. With total revenue remaining essentially flat sequentially, almost all of the improvement this quarter was once again driven by cost reductions, primarily wage-related savings and third-party interconnection costs. Our workforce reduction initiative is proceeding as planned. Wireline headcount was down 5900 this quarter and has declined by about 10,500 over the past two quarters. As you know, a majority of these reductions relate to our voluntary separation offer in the East and mid-Atlantic regions. With about another 1000 volunteers in other regions, we expect another 2000 to 3000 employees will leave our payroll by the end of the year.

In terms of workforce reductions in the third quarter, we estimate the savings to be about $80 million. Partially offsetting these cost savings this quarter were acquisition costs related to higher FiOS customer volumes and some typical seasonal increases, including higher energy costs.

Lastly, in terms of our other cost reduction initiatives, we are focused on capturing additional savings in real estate, network convergence, supply chain and inventory management. We have a well organized and realistic plan, and we are confident in our execution strategy.

To sum up, we had another very solid quarter across the entire business, resulting in improved earnings and solid momentum. To reiterate we are on track to achieve our goal of growing earnings in the second half of this year by 5% to 10% from our first-half adjusted base of $1.01 per share. Our Wireless results were solid across-the-board. We remain confident in our ability to grow the business by adding new customers and driving higher smartphone adoption, leading to higher postpaid ARPU and improved revenue growth. And with our demonstrated ability to manage our costs, we continue to grow profitability, sustaining a very strong service EBITDA margin, even with higher volumes and more upgrades than last quarter.

In our Wireline business, even though we are not getting any help from the economy and we don't expect to for the rest of this year, our cost reduction programs have stabilized Wireline profitability, and we are optimistic about our opportunities to expand margins going forward. As always, we will continue to focus on maximizing free cash flow, maintaining a strong balance sheet and reducing debt.

We are excited about our opportunities relating to the launch of 4G LTE services in Wireless, and we are certainly very confident in the long term potential of the business.

With that, I will turn it back to John so that we can get to your questions.

JOHN DOHERTY: Thank you, John. Brad, we are now ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A couple of questions, maybe first on Wireless ARPU. This is the fourth quarter we have seen accelerating postpaid ARPU growth, and just thinking through the increases in smartphone penetration would seem to really give you a good runway for further improvements in the rate of ARPU growth from here. I'm just wondering is that how you would think about it as well?

And the second question on FiOS, good uptick in both FiOS video and data adds. When thinking about the increase, can you just help us think through is this attached to seasonal, is it the no contract moves that you have made? Ultimately what I think we are trying to get to, is this kind of a new level that we should use as a run rate going forward?

JOHN KILLIAN: I will take the first part of the question on ARPU, and then Fran will cover the FiOS performance.

Yes, we are very pleased with what is happening with ARPU. When you look at our postpaid ARPU this quarter, we were up 2% in the third quarter. If you look back at the last four quarters, fourth-quarter '09 we were flat. We went to 0.6%. In the first quarter, we went to 1.5%. You know, a theme that I have had on these calls is we believe there is a lot of upside ahead of us, and we have great ability to grow postpaid ARPU because of the explosion in smartphones. We have put a lot of energy -- Lowell McAdam, John Stratton, Dan Mead, their team -- on enhancing our smartphone portfolio. We have had great success over the last year with the DROID franchise and the BlackBerry lineup and others, but we are in a much better position.

But the good news here is only 23% of our customers today has a smartphone. That is up from 20% last quarter. So you think about this, I don't know where it is going to end up, but personally I think we're going to look some day back and say, 70% to 80% of your customers are going to have smartphones. So we think there is tremendous opportunity here, and you know better than I do smartphone customers spend about double what a feature phone customer spends with you.

We also believe, even on the feature phone side, more and more customers will buy from data plans over time even before. As they are getting used to data on the Wireless slide, they will start with a plan on a feature phone. So we think there is tremendous opportunity here to grow topline in the Wireless business, and you can see that coming through and accelerating revenue growth in the Wireless business.

Fran, I will turn to you on FiOS.

FRAN SHAMMO, PRESIDENT & CEO, VERIZON BUSINESS & VERIZON TELECOM, VERIZON: Okay. Thank you, John. So to talk about the FiOS adds and the broadband adds, we are very pleased with the strong performance that we had this quarter. If you look at some of the questions you asked on the no contract, as John has spoken in the past, in the MDU space, we were underpenetrated there. We have made a lot of moves, including the no contract, but we also made a move on the contract where we offer a worry free guarantee similar to the Wireless side of the house. That if you are not totally satisfied, we will let you out of the contract with no early termination fee.

We also have launched what we call a triple play in the MDU space, understanding that a lot of this space is the younger adult segment, which, if you look at the triple play that we have launched, it is broadband, it is TV, and it is Wireless rather than a Wireline connection. So we found that that is also stimulating some growth in the MDU segment.

When you expand that, the no contract definitely has had a very good growth perspective for us, but we have also launched something new in our enterprise space where we're going to our enterprise customers, and very similar to what we do on the Wireless side with employee liable accounts, we are signing up enterprise customers to promote our FiOS product within their employee base. So that has also stimulated some growth for us.

So to wrap this up, yes, we feel that this level of adds is where we want to continue to be.

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a couple of quick ones. First, on the Wireless data pricing strategy, you guys recently made some changes or there were some in the press. I guess I was surprised that you left the unlimited data plan out there. Is that a part of your strategy to increase the penetration of smartphones? And is that pricing essentially subject to change once we move to 4G and you potentially see data volumes grow?

And then secondly, on the Wireline margins, it seems like you may have arrested the decline, and you're starting to see some improvement. It sounds like fourth quarter you see some sequential improvement, and then is that something we can see improved from here as we head out into -- is there enough cost-cutting opportunity for us to see improvements into 2011?

JOHN KILLIAN: Again, I will take the first part of this question, and then Fran will talk about the Wireline margins.

So I think what you're referring to is some of the blog reports and some of the newspaper stories. We have not formally announced any change in data pricing, but we will be rolling out a data promotion next week focused on the fourth quarter.

As we think about data pricing here and just to give you little things to think about as we position this for the future, our aim here is really at expanding the market opportunity. We think there is a huge opportunity to continue to grow. We have a $20 billion annual Wireless data business, $5 billion a quarter. It is hard to describe that as early innings, but we still believe it is the early innings of the data explosion.

So we are very focused at looking at opportunities to expand this opportunity, bring more of our base into data plans.

The other thing to think about here is we believe we have built over time, because of what we have done both with network investment, our advertising programs, a superior brand position, that allows us to be unique in how we approach the marketplace from a data pricing. Unique from what other companies do because of the brand position that we have built over time.

Our fourth-quarter promotion that we will have will have really two key elements. We will continue to have an unlimited plan, the $29 plan, that $30 plan effectively that is unlimited. But we will also have a $15 plan, and with the $15 plan, you will be able to get 150 Mb of usage. But what we believe is that people who are new to this category will probably buy the $15 plan, but over time you will see much more migration to the higher-end because there will be a lot of usage that will drive above the 150 Mb. So we think we are in a very good position.

We have said in the past, John, that we are encouraged by tiered pricing. We like the concept of tiered pricing. You could interpret this a little bit as a move in that direction, although we had the $9.99 plan before. But we will continue to look at this and we probably will have some pricing changes when we roll out 4G and 4G pricing. So there will be more to come then.

Fran will now talk about the Wireline margin.

FRAN SHAMMO: So on the Wireline margin, as John has spoken in the past, we do believe we have stabilized. We do believe that we can continue to expand the margin in Wireline business. I would say that this is a two-pronged strategy. One is obviously topline growth, and I think it is important to note that we have reached an inflection point this quarter where FiOS is now 50% of our consumer revenue. So, as we continue to improve the consumer ARPU 10% this quarter year over year, that will drive bottom-line growth.

I think it is also important to state that on the enterprise side we have seen stabilization. However, outside the United States in our global markets, we are seeing double-digit growth, especially in the AsiaPac region and some other parts of the world. So, again, that is more topline.

But as we get into the cost and productivity and sustainability, as John has spoken in the past, we had an incentive offer for our associates. We had 12,000 associates accept that offer. About 80% of them have left the payroll to date. We will do more of that in the fourth quarter.

But it's also important to know that as we attack the cost side of the Wireline business, it is more than just the headcount reductions. It is quarter to quarter improvement in our operating metrics, especially when you look at FiOS and our cost to connect premise and our cost to connect video. If you look at our COA, our COA alone, year over year has gone down 19%, and with that reduction, we have increased our adds.

So it's a whole program of cost reduction. I believe it is sustainable. And while we are doing that, we are improving our productivity so that when the economy and the enterprise restores and we continue on the track that we are in FiOS, we will continue to produce more margin.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: John, it was a pleasure working with you. I wish you all the best for your retirement.

You touched on the LTE introduction. Could you help us understand what other impacts there might be in terms of expense recognition or interest capitalization? Anything around that. As you roll out the LTE from the 110 into the 200 million plus, are we at a sort of steady state level here on Wireless CapEx where you are at a run-rate, or could there be sort of a reduction or a lower intensity in 2011 as the heavy lifting for that first 38 markets has already been done?

JOHN KILLIAN: Yes. So I think we are very pleased with where we are in terms of the LTE deployment. We mentioned getting to 110 million POPs by the end of this year. I talked to Tony Melone as recently as yesterday to get an update on status and all systems are go.

You know, the network will be in extremely good shape. From a normal customer acquisition and maintenance and those kind of things, I think you are going to see the same kind of run rates looking ahead as you have seen as we have gone through this year. I don't think you're going to see a major delta at all. In fact, we would argue over time that there will be more efficient saving driven by LTE because the cost of megabits served is much lower with LTE than it is with EV-DO and other technologies. So we think that will position us well.

There will be some impact from -- we have been capitalizing some interest. It is not a huge number, but we will see some impact as we go into 2011. Maybe a little bit in the fourth quarter, but not a major delta there.

From a CapEx perspective, what I would think about here and on this call we have said we are going to come in at the low end of our range or slightly below. I think we have a good chance of being slightly below our guidance range on CapEx. You should think about Wireless probably at about the same level next year as it is running this year in that kind of a range. When you look this year, all of the increase we have had really has been for the most part both on LTE, as well as capacity for data. There have been other offsets. Things like synergy capital will be going down. So I think it will be a very controllable level of Wireless CapEx.

The nice thing here is the CapEx to revenue ratio in the Wireless business runs quite a bit lower than the Wireline business, and there is a lot of efficiency from that capital. So I think our cash flow numbers should continue to be strong.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Just to follow-up on that, more specifically on the Wireline side, how should we think about capital going into next year as the pace of new FiOS homes past continues to slow?

And then coming back on the Wireless side, I noticed the replacement rate was around 9.5%. And, as smartphones become a larger part of your base and then hence a larger percent of the replacement volumes, how should we be thinking about the incremental costs related to that? And are there areas that you can identify to maybe offset some of that upward pressure from just a greater pace of smartphone replacements over time?

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. So a couple of thoughts for you here. We're not in a position yet to give any guidance on CapEx for next year. But, as I think about this and certainly Fran will be talking about this in January, I think the direction of overall CapEx spending -- and we have said this in the past -- is down from where we are today. I'm not going to quantify that exactly, but if you think about Wireless continuing to run next year at about the same level, I think Wireline will come down. We are coming towards the end of the FiOS buildout. So directionally I think overall CapEx spending will come down in 2011 from 2010.

I think we had tremendous discipline within the business around all of our CapEx spending, not only on core network but on systems and supporting infrastructure. We have also gotten much more efficient. A portion of our CapEx is labor. It is not just material, and we've gotten more efficient with that. So I think we are in a good position to continue posting very strong cash numbers and free cash flow numbers.

Now on the upgrade level, we are very pleased with the upgrade level, that 9.5% of our base upgraded in the quarter. Upgrades are a key focus for us, and as I think about it, upgrades right now are all good and will be all good for quite a while to come because a lot of times it is a feature phone customer going to a smartphone customer. I'm willing to take that equipment cost and that subsidy when I'm getting 2X the revenue.

So it is not an issue that we are concerned about. We see it much more as an opportunity in providing upside to us in terms of revenue growth and profitability.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA/MERRILL LYNCH: Just two more if I could on FiOS and beat the horse a little bit, John. But when we have been talking about FiOS winding down, there has been a very specific number that we would save about $2 billion a year in Wireline CapEx. And I guess it sounds like maybe you are already starting to realize some of that as you have been winding that down maybe sooner than expected. So could you put more specific numbers around as this thing comes to an end in 2010 what the dollar savings should be from that project relative to the $2 billion you guys have been talking about for a couple of years?

And then the second part is, now that FiOS is 60% of the footprint and 50% of the revenue of the Wireline unit, could you give us more color about what are the margins now on this business, and how does its growth either benefit or dilute Wireline margins as we model that out into the next couple of years?

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. So let me hit a couple of things here. We have said in the couple of billion dollar range. We are realizing some of that this year because we had been building at a 2 million premises passed roughly, and we're going to build roughly 1 million this year.

So in our program this year, we have seen some benefit there. We will continue to see that as we go into 2011 and 2012. But the message here is I think we have become more efficient with the capital spend. Our cost per home passed has been very good. We are very pleased with that, and I think overall I think the direction of CapEx spend will be down as we go into next year.

From a margin perspective, we are very pleased with where we are. FiOS overall we are very pleased with. We are operating income positive here. We continued to grow that. This quarter because we ramped up and had more net adds than we had had in previous quarters that had some impact in terms of the ability to expand the margin in this particular quarter. It is overall accretive to the margins of the overall business. We don't put out specific numbers, and we are not going to do that right now.

But the good news here is we accelerate at penetration. With the changes Fran has really led putting in place, we feel we are in a better position from an acquisition standpoint. There is a lot more buzz around the FiOS capability and the quality of video vis-a-vis our competition. So we think we are very well positioned, and FiOS is continuing to do well.

DAVID BARDEN: If I could just have one follow-up, John. Is that 50% of the revenues in the Wireline business, is the margins in that higher or lower than the reported margins for the unit?

JOHN KILLIAN: It is higher than the reported margins.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: You got a question earlier about how you are seeing this ramp in smartphone adoption, yet we are still seeing really strong Wireless margins. And I think that that had been surprising to a lot of people in that the adoption of smartphones had kind of compressed margins in a lot of other operators first because you take subsidies up front and then you start getting a lot of these network abusers who are using more than what they are really paying for under an unlimited plan.

So I guess the question here is, what could cause your margins to take a step backwards as we continue to scale in the data world? Could it be an investment you would be willing to make in a new device category? Is there something incremental you would want to do on the network side that you have not done yet or really sort of sketched out for us yet? Or do you think that you can continue to run at these record levels of EBITDA margins even as you see accelerated usage of your data services?

JOHN KILLIAN: I have to thank you because you have not broken the record that I have had on every call, a question very much like this. Good question, but the question going to sustainability of our margins in the Wireless business, and as you know, we are very pleased. Lowell McAdam, who is our new President and Chief Operating Officer, likes to describe us as an "and" company, not an "or" company. So it is both growth and profitability, and we have always said that. The 47.2% is 157 basis points up year on year. It is comparable sequentially. We believe it really reflects the superior execution and scale advantage that our Wireless team has built over several years. We have built tremendous scale in that particular business. We are able to absorb more subsidy and continue to do really a very strong job on margin.

Now a couple of points here I would make is, this is not a one trick pony result. If you look at revenue, we have a very nice improving revenue trend in the Wireless business. Service revenue in the fourth quarter was up 5%, first quarter 5.8%, second quarter 6.3%, third quarter 7.7%. And that is only with 23% of our customers having smartphones today.

So we believe, as we go to the next several years and we go up that smartphone adoption, we are going to be able to grow revenue, grow profitability. We think our network is very well positioned for the growth in data traffic. We put tremendous time and focus on this with Lowell and Dan Mead and Tony Melone on making sure we are well equipped. Our assumptions assume that our handset lineup that we think is very strong today where we put all the emphasis on again the DROID franchise -- and the DROID franchise is unique to Verizon -- positions us very well, and our handset lineup we will get better over time. It is not going to take a step backwards. It will continue to be enhanced.

And is it possible we have a quarter where there is a knockout device that has some impact on margins? There is always a possibility of that happening. We have acknowledged that in the past, and that would be a good thing to have happen because of what you would do from a smartphone adoption in your overall ARPU.

Now the other part of this is our Wireless team, not only focused on net adds and growth in ARPU, but tremendous focus on driving efficiency in the business. They have been working on driving costs out of the supply chain. You have seen the tremendous results they have had this year on lowering their inventory level at a time you have new product introductions, focused on driving cost out of customer service, driving more online interactions, eliminating things like other charges and credits, OCCs, controlling them, retail store efficiency. So we think the scale we have built in that business allows us to continue to have the lead in the industry on margins, and we are not going to give that up.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: John, what do you think revenue growth can do over the next couple of years? You have obviously been accelerating up. Do you see the business as kind of a 3%, 4% revenue grower? And maybe related to that, how much did your wholesale pricing changes impact revenue in the quarter? And I have a brief follow-up if you don't mind.

JOHN KILLIAN: Generally I absolutely think we can accelerate revenue growth from where we are today. I mean I think the Wireless business on a service ARPU at 7% can get up into high single digits and can touch 10% with data growth. The Wireline revenue picture looks a little worse this quarter than it really is. We posted a number of 3.6%, but the major driver on that of going a little bit worse from last quarter was we made some price changes in our international wholesale business because we had certain routes out in the world that really were not driving profitability.

So when you look at our international wholesale revenue, it was down year over year by 28%. If you strip that out, our Wireline revenue was only down 2.4% versus the 3.6% that we reported. And then, as you cut under that, consumer is growing at the rate of 1.1%. We saw a better performance on small business. Our enterprise revenue, while it was negative 0.8%, if you break FX out, it was flat. So the underlying trends, even in the Wireline business, are better than we think the 3.6% number would show. And I think we believe we can get the Wireline business over the next couple of years with some help from the economy to flat and maybe to slightly growing. And if we do that, that would be very important for the business overall because Fran has talked about, there is no question we still have a lot of ability to drive more and more costs out. But we've got to get that business growing again, and we are very focused on that and we think we can. But the Wireless business there is going to be tremendous opportunity to continue to accelerate revenue growth in that business.

TIM HORAN: John, just on your Wireless business, you clearly have a premium network out there. Do you think when you get the iPhone you can charge a premium price either for the device or for the service or some kind of application sharing? I'm not asking when you are getting the iPhone, but clearly there would be a huge benefit for subscribers being on your network versus your competitor.

JOHN KILLIAN: I talked earlier about how we think about pricing. So we are very focused on the device lineup we have today. We think we have a great device lineup. You know the DROID franchise has gone from nothing a year ago to where it really has a buzz and a lot of momentum out in the marketplace right now.

From a pricing perspective, we think the brand that we have built puts us in a unique position from a pricing perspective. We have always been a bit at a premium, and we think the brand will allow us to continue to do that.

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Piper Jaffray.

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: A question back to FiOS. You obviously picked up some share, or it appears based on what the cable companies have said that you picked up some share both on video and on data.

My question is really there has been a lot of back and forth there. Have you begun to see anything so far in the fourth quarter that indicates that cable companies are getting more aggressive either on their video or the data pricing?

And then additionally, there were some comments made actually in the New York Post recently that cable was considering a massive increase or a material increase in their high-speed data prices to offset some of this over-the-top video that may be going on. If cable were to do that, is that something you guys would follow along with, that is a large increase or material increase in your data pricing?

JOHN KILLIAN: I think Chris, a couple of thoughts here. The FiOS video business and Internet business we have always said every quarter, is a very competitive business out there. I would not say we have seen anything recently that changes the competitive landscape from an offer or a price perspective. With the changes that Fran has led for us on the worry free guarantee, the no contract, the focus on the MDU, we think we're in a very good position.

We have not planned any price changes here at this point in time. We would always continue to look at what is happening in the competitive landscape. We think our FiOS offering based on the fiber end-to-end is a superior offering from a quality standpoint, and we have been focused very much on acquisition and getting people to move. So we would continue to evaluate that and look at what the opportunity is to accelerate revenue growth.

OPERATOR: James Ratcliffe, Barclays Capital.

JAMES RATCLIFFE, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Two if I could, one on capital structure and the other on FiOS.

On the FiOS side for broadband, where are the adds coming from? I know a material portion in the past have been people being switched from DSL to FiOS. Is that continuing? And is the mix changing in terms of DSL switches versus people coming presumably over from cable?

And secondly, on the capital structure side, if you are looking at dividend and cash up from Verizon Wireless, how much of a buffer do you have in terms of realized and tax proportional profits of Verizon Communication that have not actually represented cash dividends up from Verizon Wireless? So, in other words, how much could you dividend up from VZW before you started to actually have to pay tax, incremental tax, on those payments?

JOHN KILLIAN: I'm not -- let me just start with the capital structure issue is that we are very pleased with our cash performance. We think the Wireless business, you can see it is a cash machine. The cash generation of that business is not going to decelerate. If anything, it is going to accelerate. We are in a very good position from that perspective. We believe the Verizon dividend is extremely safe. There is not a major tax issue here that I am worried about that is going to have some impact on this. So we think we are in a good position.

Fran and his team has had a lot of focus on trying to make the Wireline business more free cash flow positive. We will continue to work at that, but our cash flow margin is in a very good position, and you can see it from this quarter. Fran will comment on the FiOS question.

FRAN SHAMMO: So on the migration question, yes, we continue to migrate some of our former DSL customers into the FiOS broadband. But if you look at our net adds after you take the Internet net adds from our FiOS product less our DSL, we are still on a positive take share perspective.

The other thing to consider, too, is that when you look at the penetration of our Internet at 31 and our TV at 27, what we find is once we convert someone over to our FiOS Internet product with the speeds that we have and the amazement that they get from that, it is very easy for us to then walk in behind that and convert over to TV because we can bundle it and save them money. So I think that we do have migration from DSL, but we are also taking share.

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. Thank you, Fran, and thank you, James, for that question.

Just a couple of things in wrap up here. I hope you can see that we feel very positive about the performance of the business this quarter. You know we had given you some direction that we felt we needed to do about where earnings would be in the second half of the year. And in this quarter, we are at the very high end of that range. That is our focus for the fourth quarter. We will continue to deliver in the fourth quarter the kinds of things we delivered here. Strong Wireless results driven by continuing ARPU acceleration and stronger smartphone results. We have stabilized the Wireline business from a margin position. We have actually expanded them slightly in this quarter. We believe that will accelerate as we get into the fourth quarter, and our cash flow position is very strong and will remain very strong.

So I thank you for taking the time. I will pass back to John just to close up the call.

JOHN DOHERTY: Brad, that concludes our call today. Thanks to everyone for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101105e6am000xd
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,472 words
   PD
23 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President Investor Relations for Verizon.

RON LATAILLE, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Ron Lataille. With me this morning is John Killian, our Chief Financial Officer.

   TD
Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are available on our Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website.

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

On a GAAP basis, we reported a net loss for the second quarter of $0.07 per share. These quarterly results include a total of $0.65 of nonoperational or one-time charges, which are listed on slide four. The largest item relates to the recognition of costs in connection with our Wireline force reduction initiative, primarily for severance, special termination benefits and pension charges. These costs totaled $2.3 billion pretax and resulted in a charge to earnings of $0.52 per share. Roughly $1 billion of the pretax amount is for additional severance liabilities as a result of the enhanced incentive offer. The remaining $1.3 billion of pretax costs are non-cash and relate to the recognition of special termination benefits and pension plan liabilities for the affected employees.

We also incurred nonoperational costs in connection with the spinoff of our access line properties to Frontier. As we previously discussed, these costs are related to network, software and other activities required for these facilities to function as a separate company. In the second quarter, these "get ready" costs amounted to $195 million pretax or a charge of $0.04 per share.

Another item we have been pointing out for you are merger integration costs related to Alltel. During the second quarter, charges related to these activities amounted to $0.02 per share. In addition, the sale of the Alltel divestiture properties resulted in a one-time tax expense worth about $0.04 per share.

The last item that I would like to highlight is a one-time non-cash adjustment of $268 million, primarily related to Wireless data revenues. This adjustment was recorded to properly defer previously recognized Wireless data revenues that will be earned and recognized in the following period. As the amounts involved were not material to our consolidated financial statements in any current or previous reporting period, the $268 million adjustment was recorded entirely in the second quarter with an unfavorable impact on consolidated revenues, which equates to $0.03 per share of earnings. Consistent with our reporting methodology, the items I just described are not included at the segment level, primarily due to their nonoperational or nonrecurring nature. However, they are included in our reported consolidated results.

With that, I will now turn the call over to John Killian.

JOHN KILLIAN, EVP & CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details, let me start with some brief comments on the business overall and add some of my perspective to our second-quarter results. Our results show that we continue to do a good job executing in our key focus areas.

In terms of cash generation, we had an exceptionally strong quarter of cash flow growth with continued tight controls on capital spending. We saw good customer growth in Wireless where data revenue growth continues to be driven by smartphone sales to both new and existing customers. As a result, we saw increasing year-over-year growth in postpaid ARPU and improvements to our industry-leading customer retention metrics this quarter.

In Wireline our EBITDA margin improvement was driven by cost reductions. During the quarter we had approximately 11,000 volunteers for our enhanced separation offer in the East and mid-Atlantic regions. So this will go a long way toward helping us achieve our Wireline force reduction objectives for the year.

Broadband and video continue to drive revenue results within the mass markets. Revenue trends in global Enterprise improved again this quarter and showed positive year-over-year growth. And while we are seeing stability in underlying trends in the Enterprise space, we're still seeing cyclical effects and remain cautiously optimistic with regard to a more meaningful economic recovery.

Lastly, we completed the pending transactions that were part of our overall strategic transformation. During the second quarter, we closed the sale of the 105 markets we were required to divest as part of the Alltel acquisition in 2009. And on July 1 we completed the access line spinoff and merger transaction with Frontier. Through the spinoff, Verizon shareholders received $1.85 per share in value in the form of Frontier shares and cash in what was effectively a stock dividend. So it was an active quarter for sure with solid overall performance.

Let's now move to our detailed review of the quarter, starting on slide four.

As Ron indicated earlier, our second-quarter earnings results included $0.65 of nonoperational or one-time charges. With a reported loss of $0.07, you can see that the math gets us to a $0.58 quarterly result. For the first half of the year, we produced $1.13 in EPS before the effect of nonoperational or one-time items.

I would like to add a little more detail on the Wireless deferred revenue adjustment. Over the last several years, we have moved away from billing customers on a "per use" basis for data to billing a "predetermined" price for either a bundle of text messages, a certain amount of data usage or unlimited usage of data on smartphones. As such, certain data services are billed in advance for services to be provided in the next monthly cycle. Essentially we are recording an adjustment related to prior periods in which we did not properly defer a portion of monthly billed revenues, primarily for certain Wireless data services that are billed in advance.

The impact of the deferred revenue adjustment in any given quarter or year was not material. So reported revenue and growth trends were not materially overstated. In fact, had we done this appropriately, the largest single year impact would have been under $80 million. However, since the amount of deferred revenue related to these types of data services had grown progressively over time, the $268 million adjustment does negatively impact consolidated revenues and our growth rates in the second quarter.

This is a one-time adjustment to reconcile our Wireless deferred data revenue balance. Given the nature of this adjustment, it is not included in our Wireless segment results and does not affect prior period comparisons at the segment level.

Let me now spend a minute on the divested properties, which will no longer be part of our results in the second half of the year. First, on the Alltel divestiture markets or "trust properties", as we refer to them, these markets were sold to two different buyers and closed on two different dates during the quarter. The first sale closed in late April and the second one in late June.

As such, our subscriber numbers at the end of the second quarter exclude the more than 2 million subscribers that we divested in these markets. Our quarterly financial results include these properties up until the date of each sale. But since both transactions closed during the quarter, our results do not reflect a full quarter of activity for the trust properties. The revenue impact of not having these Wireless properties for the entire second quarter is about $100 million.

We divested the Frontier properties on July 1, so those results are fully included in our second quarter. We will be providing pro forma historical information for our Wireline and Wireless segments to reclassify the impact of these dispositions in late August or early September. And I will talk more about the impacts of these divested properties on our 2010 earnings outlook at the end of my remarks.

Since a great deal of our earnings performance involves noncash effects, let's turn our attention now to cash flow, which presents a much different growth picture.

As I said earlier, our cash flow performance was quite strong. Cash flow from operations in the quarter totaled $9.8 billion. Year-to-date cash flow from operations of $16.9 billion is up 19.4%. Free cash flow in the second quarter was $5.5 billion, up more than 75%. On a year-to-date basis, free cash flow of $9.2 billion is up $3.1 billion or 52%. Our operational cash flow results continue to be very strong, and we have benefited from lower net tax payments.

Looking at capital spending in total, we were down 3.6% in the quarter, and we are running 5% below 2009 on a year-to-date basis. So, at this point in time, I would reiterate our previously stated full-year 2010 guidance of capital expenditures between $16.8 billion and $17.2 billion.

And, as I previously said, we are re-allocating capital between our segments, reflecting growth opportunities. This shift will continue as we move through the year.

In Wireline, CapEx in the second quarter was $1.8 billion, down almost 24%. Year-to-date Wireline CapEx of $3.3 billion is down nearly $1 billion, reflecting lower FiOS deployment capital as planned and our tight focus on spending to increase free cash flow. In Wireless, capital spending is higher than last year, driven by 4G LTE network deployment and data capacity requirements. In the second quarter, Wireless CapEx was $2.3 billion. Year-to-date we spent $4 billion, which is up $698 million or about 21%.

Turning to the balance sheet, a top priority for us is to continue to reduce leverage. And we are doing well here with net debt of just under $53 billion at the end of the quarter, down $7.5 billion or 12.5% since the beginning of the year.

Our net debt to EBITDA ratio is about 1.5 times, and we're expecting it to be even lower by the end of the year. On July 1 we transferred $250 million of debt to Frontier and shortly thereafter used the $3.1 billion of cash from the spinoff to further reduce debt.

Let's turn now to revenue trends, which are on slide six. Consolidated revenues for the second quarter were $26.8 billion, an $88 million or 0.3% decline versus last year. The deferred revenue adjustment that I covered earlier had a negative impact on growth of about 100 basis points. And the timing of the Alltel trust property sales during the quarter had an unfavorable revenue impact of about $100 million.

During the quarter we saw revenue growth in our key areas, including Wireless data, FiOS, and strategic services within the Global Enterprise market. With that high level snapshot of revenues, let's move to the segments next, starting with Wireless on slide seven.

In Wireless, we had another strong quarter with sequential improvement in revenue, ARPU churn and profitability. Our revenue growth performance was strong with total service revenues up $697 million or 5.2% year over year. And when we look at our results, without the Alltel trust properties, in other words on a pro forma basis, total service revenue growth was 6.2%. Our focus on expanding the data market drove data revenue growth of 23.8% compared with last year. Total data revenues grew to $4.8 billion this quarter and comprised 34.5% of total service revenues. And total data ARPU grew 16.1% year over year.

Our strategy is focused on continuing to take advantage of the rapidly growing smartphone device category. Our approach is to support a number of different operating systems and platforms and to offer a robust lineup of devices, which gives us the opportunity to not only attract new customers but upgrade our existing customers.

In addition to improving ARPU and customer retention, we believe this approach will drive sustained data revenue growth, and we continue to be very bullish about this opportunity. For starters we see plenty of upside in terms of data penetration. At the end of the second quarter, 35% of our retail postpaid base had smartphones or multimedia devices, up from just under 31% at the end of the first quarter and 26% at year-end. 20% of our postpaid customers have smartphones and 15% have multimedia devices.

The Droid franchise has been a great success. We have had a steady stream of devices featuring the Android operating system since the first Droid was introduced last fall. To date we have six devices with multiple manufacturers in our current device lineup with more to come. The Incredible was introduced late in the second quarter, and we began selling the new Droid X on July 15. Both devices have sold very well, and customer feedback has been terrific. We have had some back order issues, but this is more timing than anything else. Customer demand and interest in the smartphone category has never been greater. Demand is being driven by the proliferation of new devices with greater capabilities and innovative applications and content. We feel really good about our device portfolio with great momentum going forward.

Looking ahead, particularly with the commercial launch of LTE later this year, we believe that our network advantage will become even more evident and differentiate us more than ever before. Let's now talk about our customer growth results.

We've displayed our customer activity on slide eight, so you can clearly differentiate the second-quarter net add growth from the effect of the Alltel trust property subscriber adjustments. We had a good quarter in terms of growth, adding 1.4 million net new customers with 665,000 retail postpaid net adds and 896,000 reseller additions.

In the postpaid market, we competed very well this quarter with a strong device lineup. Our increased focus on customer retention drove an excellent sequential improvement in postpaid churn of 13 basis points. Our net add performance in the reseller channel was also very good, especially since the second quarter is typically seasonally lower in this customer category.

As we have said, the reseller market is a low-cost channel for us and an effective way for us to attract incremental prepaid customers. We ended this quarter with 92.1 million customers, which, as you know, is substantially retail postpaid, representing 89% of total customers.

And, as we identified beginning last quarter, the Other Connections category is where we will be including all kinds of machine to machine devices such as vehicle tracking, telematics, eReaders, consumer electronics, smart grid solutions and medical alert devices.

Let's take a closer look at our retail performance on slide nine. Our key focus continues to be on the retail postpaid market where we continue to drive revenue growth through increased data usage and penetration. Retail service revenues grew 4.2% in the quarter. Retail postpaid ARPU increased 1.2% compared with a year ago, effectively doubling the year-over-year accretion we saw in the first quarter. This accretion is driven by data plans and the increasing percentage of customers using smartphones and multimedia devices. Device upgrades were strong once again with about 9% of our postpaid customers upgrading in the second quarter. Customers continue to respond very well to our portfolio of smartphones and multimedia devices. About 40% of device sales from our direct channels were smartphones with a $30 monthly data plan and 17% were from multimedia devices, which have a minimum $10 monthly data plan attached.

Our strategy of stimulating data revenue growth is also improving customer retention. Our churn metrics this quarter were excellent. The improvements were most notable in retail postpaid with churn under 1% and improving by 7 basis points year on year.

In terms of profitability, we had another excellent quarter, generating $6.7 billion of EBITDA, up 7.8% from a year ago. Our second-quarter service EBITDA margins expanded to 47.5%, driven by strong data revenues, churn improvement and the continued benefit of Alltel synergy savings.

Looking ahead, you can expect us to continue achieving both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market and increasing the penetration of smartphones and other data devices which will further expand the data market.

Let's move to our Wireline segment on slide 11. On the consumer side, our broadband and video products continue to drive a significant shift in our revenue mix. FiOS revenue in the quarter grew more than 33% year over year, and FiOS ARPU, which now exceeds $145, is up 7% over the second quarter last year. On the Enterprise side, growth in Strategic Services, which includes security, IP and other managed solutions, continued to transform the revenue mix. In Wholesale, revenues were impacted by secular pressures and the effect of some international pricing changes. Let's take a closer look at both the consumer and business markets, starting on slide 12.

This time last year FiOS made up about one-third of consumer revenue. FiOS revenues now represent more than 43%. Within consumer, the strength of our broadband and video products, together with our increasing scale, should continue to drive positive revenue and ARPU growth and offset the secular and competitive pressures in this part of the business. Consumer revenue in the quarter grew 0.3% versus last year, and we continue to see strong growth in consumer ARPU, which increased to more than $80 this quarter, up 11.4% from a year ago.

In terms of customer growth, we saw a sequential improvement in net additions for both FiOS TV and Internet. At the end of the quarter, we had a total of 3.2 million FiOS TV customers, adding 174,000 this quarter compared with 168,000 in the first quarter. Our FiOS TV penetration is 26% based on about 12.4 million homes open for sale.

On the broadband side, we added 196,000 new FiOS Internet customers this quarter compared to 185,000 in the first quarter, bringing our total to 3.8 million. And with about 12.9 million homes open for sale, FiOS Internet penetration is 30%. Adding in high-speed Internet or DSL customers, we ended the quarter with 9.3 million broadband connections.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 13, which shows our global Enterprise and global wholesale revenue performance.

While revenues in the business market continue to be affected by macroeconomic pressures, we are seeing some signs of stability. Global Enterprise revenue showed positive sequential and year-over-year growth, up 1.1% versus first quarter and 0.6% versus the second quarter last year. Our revenue performance was helped by strong CPE sales and network and solutions-based services. Strategic services, which represent about 40% of global Enterprise revenue, grew 6.2% year on year and 3.5% sequentially.

I would say we're seeing some signs of stabilization. We are still cautious in our optimism as usage volumes and unemployment figures have not shown any meaningful change.

In Global Wholesale, revenue declines were worse than trend, down 8.3% year over year and just under 5% sequentially. Domestically revenues continue to be impacted by secular pressures. Internationally we made a decision to increase voice pricing in certain routes, which resulted in some loss of business in this highly competitive market.

Let's cover Wireline profitability next. In the second quarter, we were able to improve the EBITDA margin by about 100 basis points sequentially to 22.7%. The improvement was primarily driven by wage-related savings and third-party interconnection costs in the quarter. We are making good progress in our workforce reduction initiative. Wireline headcount was down 3800 in the second quarter and 6100 year to date.

As I mentioned earlier, we had approximately 11,000 acceptances to our enhanced incentive offer in the East and mid-Atlantic regions. About two-thirds of these employees went off payroll in late June or early July with the remainder leaving the business later in the third and fourth quarter as we carefully manage the transition with a focus on customer service. The benefits of these actions should help our margins in the third and fourth quarters.

We are also considering additional force reductions in other locations within the telecom business. We should know more about this by the end of the third quarter.

As far as our other cost reduction initiatives, we are also making progress in real estate, network convergence, supply chain, inventory management and energy. We have a well-organized and realistic plan, and I am confident that we will capture these savings. We will also continue to be very disciplined in terms of our capital spending.

To sum up, we had a solid quarter with exceptionally strong cash flow. We will continue to focus on maximizing free cash flow, maintaining a strong balance sheet and reducing debt. Our Wireless results were solid, and in Wireline our cost reduction initiatives resulted in margin improvement. And we successfully completed our pending transactions by closing the sale of the Alltel trust markets during the quarter and divesting the access line properties to Frontier on July 1.

The Frontier transaction culminates a strategic transformation that we have undergone since the inception of Verizon 10 years ago. During this process we have aligned our Company with the major growth trends driving our industry. We have simplified the business by divesting our directories business, monetizing our international equity investments, and spinning off certain access line properties. We have restructured through strategic acquisitions and investments, significantly increased our exposure to the growth areas of the future, Wireless, broadband and global connectivity.

In Wireless, we have increased our scale through acquisitions, purchased valuable spectrum and invested in new technologies that will position us to capture growth in the rapidly evolving mobile broadband space. We have changed our revenue mix in Wireline, reinventing our technology base with fiber and expanding our global presence through acquisition to meet the growing demand of Enterprise customers for global connectivity. In short, we have positioned ourselves to be a stronger competitor in areas of higher growth and minimized our exposure to areas of the business that are more challenged by secular change.

The revenue pie on slide 16 highlights our current revenue mix. The first observation is that 83% of our consolidated revenues come from Wireless and global business customers.

Secondly, the Wireline mass-market business comprises only about 16% of our current revenues with a majority of our households covered by FiOS. So the net result of the strategic investments and divestitures that we made is an outstanding set of high-value assets with greater potential for revenue growth.

We are also confident that over the long term we can grow profit and shareholder returns. In the short term, I realize that the impact and timing of these divestitures make estimating 2010 earnings more difficult. So, in addition, to providing pro forma historical information soon, I would like to offer investors some thoughts about the impacts of these divestitures and my outlook for the second half of the year.

Before non-operational and one-time items, we had $1.13 of earnings per share in the first half of the year. The assets we spun off to Frontier and the Alltel trust properties accounted for approximately $0.12 of first-half earnings. So excluding these properties, we had $1.01 of earnings per share. Our goal is to grow earnings in the second half of this year by 5% to 10% from this first-half adjusted base of $1.01. In the second half of this year, we expect a continuation of the trends we are experiencing in our Wireless business. We believe we can continue to grow the business in terms of net adds and drive higher smartphone adoption, leading to accelerating ARPU accretion and revenue growth.

In addition, we will continue to make great progress managing costs. You saw the strong service EBITDA margin that we delivered in the first half, and we expect to continue this performance.

In our Wireline business, although we don't expect any significant economic driven improvements in the second half, we will continue to accelerate the success in the cost reduction programs you saw in the first half. Virtually all of the benefit associated with our incentive offer to associates will be reflected in our second-half results.

In addition, we continue to make great progress in other areas such as reducing our overall access costs and delivering on all of our other cost reduction initiatives. So, again, a good quarter. We are optimistic about the outlook for the second half of the year, and we are confident in the long-term potential of the business.

With that, I will turn it back to Ron so we can get to your questions.

RON LATAILLE: Thank you, John. Brad, if you could open up the lines for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: John, first, maybe a follow-up to some of the guidance you just gave. So if I'm doing the math right, it would suggest that on a non-pro forma basis you're talking in the 220 to 226 range for 2010 and on a pro forma basis more like 208 or 209 to 214. These are some of quick numbers, but I guess given the 5% to 10% range, is that sort of in the ballpark?

JOHN KILLIAN: If you take the first-half earnings of $1.13 and then I indicated if you strip out the impact, so if you look at the Frontier contribution, that is in the range of $0.08 to $0.09 in the first half of the year. Trust properties are in the range of $0.03 to $0.04. Combined it is about $0.12. So if you strip that away, it is $1.01. What we are saying is we would grow 5% to 10% off of the $1.01.

JOHN HODULIK: So $1.06 to $1.11 and then you add that back to the $1.14?

JOHN KILLIAN: You can do the math. You can do the math, and you can make it work. Add that to the $1.13 we had in the first half of the year and you will get to a range.

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. I guess my real question is around margins. Really on the Wireline side, you had some nice outperformance in the quarter. You went through some of the issues there. I know you don't have pro formas out yet for the deal, but given the progress you have made on the cost savings side, are we still expecting about a 200 basis point decline in margins, line item margins on a sequential basis, or did some of the cost savings continue to kick in and maybe offset some of that impact in the second half?

JOHN KILLIAN: Yes, John, we will be putting pro formas out as we mentioned late August, early September. The initial impact, as you strip out, Frontier is around a couple of hundred basis points.

Now, as we have said on the call and we have said on past calls, within the Wireline business, we are extremely focused on driving costs out of that business. Had very strong performance in the second quarter. I had indicated on the first-quarter call that we thought that was the case.

Force benefits sequentially. We had some wage-related savings principally on the overtime side. We did not see any of the benefit really in the quarter from the 11,000 force reduction that we have got with the associate offer. So most of the individuals who went off in the second quarter, it was late in the quarter. We had some more in early July. That was a little over 7000 of the 11,000 that went off there. So we should see those benefits in the second half of the year.

So we believe we can improve Wireline margin in the second half of the year off of the pro forma Wireline margin that we will be putting out, and we feel good about those initiatives. Every cost line is being attacked in the Wireline business. Our third-party access costs or telco costs are a big area of focus. Obviously all the headcount items are a strong area of focus. We are seeing improvements in real estate expense. We have vacated some buildings. Most recently, we terminated the lease in Philadelphia on 1717 Arch Street, which was a fairly sizable commitment for us. So we think we have a lot of opportunity to drive cost reduction on the Wireline side.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, JPMorgan.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Congratulations, Ron. As much as it might be selfish, I hope to hear you in October as well.

John, on the Wireless margin side, can you just give us some sense on what the drivers were for cost reduction? Obviously a very strong net add quarter, gross adds pretty flat sequentially. Looks like a pretty good takedown in SG&A. Is there some part of that that came out with divested properties, and what should we thinking about for a good run-rate there?

And then secondly, with the Vodafone issue looming at some point maybe next year or 2012, Wireline CapEx looks like it is down year-to-date about $1 billion year over year. How far can we get that down over the next year or so?

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay, Mike. A couple of thoughts for you. Clearly I think you can see from the call that our Wireless business is really firing on all cylinders, and we think there is substantial opportunity ahead of us to continue that performance. We are in the early innings of Wireless data with only 20% of our base having a smartphone and then with LTE a whole set of opportunities around video. So we think there is a lot of opportunity to accelerate topline performance as we go through the second half of the year and into 2011.

Now a couple of thoughts for you. The Wireless team is extremely focused on all areas of cost. If you look actually at headcount, they are down year on year about 8000 people. Now a couple of thousand of those are related to the trust properties. There is a little bit of other ones in terms of leave of absence, those kinds of things. But net net we are down 4000 to 5000 people.

They have a series of initiatives within the Wireless business that is focused on their distribution side of the business. That is driving more efficiency, more online transactions, again an area where we think we are very early in the process of driving that out.

Another area that they have a lot of attention is all of the costs and expenses around managing supply chain, inventory levels and just the whole process there. So just about every area of the Wireless side, again like Wireline, they are attacking the underlying cost structure. We are very pleased with the margin performance in the second quarter and think we're in a good position to continue to drive both growth and profitability in that business.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay and on the Wireline CapEx -- (multiple speakers)

JOHN KILLIAN: On the Wireline CapEx, we indicated our guidance was $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion for the full year on CapEx. You can see in the last two quarters we have had a big shift where more of our spending is going to Wireless than Wireline. So we are taking Wireline down this year. I expect that trend to continue as we go into 2011. I think we can take another bite out of it down next year. I'm not going to size that right now because we are early in the process. But I think our overall CapEx spending as we look at 2011 will be down from where we are today, although we will keep a pretty strong allocation to the Wireless side. As you know, the Wireless side is being fueled by LTE and by data.

MIKE MCCORMACK: Okay. And I guess, John, your comments on the Wireless SG&A side, it sounds like the bias would be towards flat to down on SG&A for the balance of the year?

JOHN KILLIAN: Very focused on driving more and more costs out of the Wireline side on SG&A, absolutely. And on the back of the 11,000 volunteers we had on our East associate offer, I should mention that we are going to do some additional offers in the rest of Verizon in the second half of the year in our what used to be the West, which is really California, Texas and Florida. So we would expect to get some additional force reductions from that.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: On the dividend outlook, you have always had some strong cash flow performance. You have got a positive outlook for the second half of the year. But, on the other hand, you also distributed a dividend, which was effectively with Frontier with a lot of cash generation. So how should we think about your upcoming decision in September around continuing that annual dividend increase, or are there some sort of one-time factors this year?

And then we have had AT&T out with tiered data pricing. You have got a lot of smartphone load now. LTE is coming up. What are your current thoughts on tiered data pricing?

JOHN KILLIAN: So, Simon, just a couple of thoughts for you. Yes, cash flow is tremendously strong, better in the quarter than even we expected. The team has a tremendous amount of effort and attention there. It is driven principally from operating performance.

As part of that, though, is I hope you noticed the working capital benefits. Because the operating team is very focused on managing inventory levels and all of your days sales outstanding, all of the components that drive cash flow in the business. And I think we are performing extremely well here.

So on the dividend, Simon, as you know, that is a board decision. The board will consider that in September. I think we put them in a position where they have some pretty good alternatives there from a dividend perspective given the cash flow performance. But at the end of the day, that will be their decision.

On pricing we are performing extremely well right now. If you look at our data revenues this quarter, they are up about 24% year on year. If you look at data ARPU for our postpaid base, they are up over 19%. Again, as I said to you earlier, a lot of upside potential there, given where we are around smartphones and multimedia devices in the future.

We have indicated in the past, as we move to an LTE world and LTE pricing, we will probably look very hard at tiered pricing, and that continues to be our thinking right now. So more to come on that. By the way, I should say that all of our efforts, all of our plans on getting LTE launched in the fourth quarter are on schedule. We feel very good about that. We think that is going to open up a whole new set of opportunities to continue to grow this Wireless business that is again performing very well.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Bank of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: John, just, first, could you talk a little bit about the one part of the Wireless that seemed to be maybe a little on the soft side, which was the retail prepaid. It seems like you guys have transferred the economics of being a retail prepaid provider in Wireless over to your wholesale relationship with TracFone. That relationship has been on for a year now. I was wondering if you could talk to us about your takeaways and some of the experiments you are doing with the $50 unlimited plan in the Southeast?

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. So overall, from a growth perspective in Wireless, very satisfied, 1.4 million net adds. On the last quarter call, a lot of those, a lot of people were suggesting that the postpaid market was coming to its end, and we suggested to you that we thought there was still a lot of life there for Verizon, and we did a lot better in the second quarter than we did in the first quarter.

So we feel very good about our position in the postpaid marketplace. That is our prime strategy. The device lineup, Lowell and his team have done a tremendous job with the device lineup. The whole Droid franchise is performing extremely well. We introduced The Incredible, as you know, in the second quarter. We just launched the Droid X. There are more devices to come. So we think our handset lineup is very well positioned.

Now we have also suggested that we decided to play more of the prepaid marketplace, not exclusively. We have our own prepaid offerings that have benefits in terms of handsets and customer service, but that we were playing more of that end of the market through the reseller opportunity. By the way, not just the straight talk offering. There are several different resellers, and we have been very satisfied with that. It has fueled some nice growth for us as we have gone through the past year. The ARPU levels runs significantly higher than the traditional reseller offerings we have had. The profitability from a pure margin percentage basis is pretty good because you don't have the marketing costs and a lot of the SG&A. So we think that strategy has worked well for us, and we are continuing to do that. There is always some seasonal fluctuation there from a reseller model.

Now, on the prepaid offering that you said, it is just a trial in the South. It is targeted to a specific geographic area. There is not a plan at the moment to bring that nationally. From time to time, our areas do different things to see what kind of reactions, kind of experiment, and that is what that is all about. Nothing more than that. Okay?

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, John. If I could just follow up on the tiered pricing also, obviously you had a good quarter in postpaid. The new iPhone and the pricing changes came out at the end of second quarter. Now that you have had some time to assess the market and what the tiered pricing plan has meant for AT&T versus you guys now without it, how compelling an offer do you feel it is? How competitively imperative is it that you do something along those lines, or is it mostly just a capacity management (inaudible)?

JOHN KILLIAN: It is very early days since that change went in. What I would tell you is is our business continues to perform extremely well. That our smartphone lineup is being very well received. Our Droid lineup we have trouble keeping the Droids in stock. By the way, we don't have a big supply problem here. There is a little bit of a delay in fulfillment, but we are in a good position there.

So our business is continuing to perform extremely well. You have not seen us rush out to make any kind of a change. We will continue to monitor the situation, of course, and look at opportunities that will say what is the best equation for us to drive long-term shareholder value, and we will be very focused on that. I cannot say enough, though, about the opportunity we see ahead given where we are today with smart phone penetration. I mean I think 20% of our base today, where is that number going ultimately? Is it 80%? Some people could argue everyone is going to have a smartphone ultimately because that is the kind of device it is going to be. So I think there is tremendous opportunity to continue to drive and create value through Verizon Wireless.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: I just wanted to follow up on the cost side. I think it was the last call you started to size the opportunity for cost-cutting over the next two years. And, if I remember correctly, the comment was at least $1.5 billion to $2 billion. Based on the efforts you have made in the second quarter, can you give us an update in terms of the size of the opportunity and what percent of that you think you could realize in 2010 versus 2011?

JOHN KILLIAN: So Mike I'm not going to re-size the number for you. What I would tell you is our confidence on the ability to drive costs out of the entire business, both Wireline and on the Wireless business, too, has never been stronger. I think we have come off a quarter where we have had very good performance.

If you look at our business year on year, we are down about 24,000 people in total from an absolute basis. A big chunk of those coming out in the first half of this year, more coming out in the second half of the year. By the way, we also transferred a little over 9000 people with the Frontier transaction that we just completed.

So I think we are in a very good position. The organization knows how important it is to resize the cost structure. So we feel very confident about our ability to do that.

OPERATOR: Jason Armstrong, Goldman Sachs.

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Maybe a couple of questions. First, on Enterprise trends, the results seem to indicate share shifts in your favor. I'm wondering you obviously talked about the macro, but can you talk about what you're seeing in the competitive marketplace?

And then maybe second question just on Wireless ARPU. Good progress on postpaid ARPU growth, accelerating the rate of growth after you moved up to 1.2%. But with the device refresh you have got going on, it seems like we have a lot more upside. So I'm just wondering if you can talk about the trajectory from here, and we see at least one peer in the industry approach 4% growth, do you think that is realistic for you?

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. Jason, a couple of thoughts for you. Yes, Enterprise we had better performance this quarter. On a reported basis, we were up, which was very good. Now we had a couple of things that helped us there. We had a very strong CPE quarter. A lot of demand for equipment out there, which is good. It drives some margin. We are doing some pricing change on the CPE lineup. We did it late second quarter, early third quarter to drive a little bit of margin. That might temper down the volume just a little bit as we go through the third quarter.

When you underlie and strip out CPE and some of the other things, we did see improved performance in Enterprise, although it was still a little bit negative year-over-year. We are -- I would not say we are seeing any big change from an economic standpoint at this point. I think you are hearing that from every call that is out there right now. Maybe in the first quarter there was a little bit of an uptick with everything going on in Europe and other issues, there has probably been a little bit of a pause in terms of purchase decisions right now. We are hoping that will pick back up in the second half of the year. But, from a pure Enterprise perspective, we were pleased with our performance in the quarter, but we have a little bit of caution as we go through the rest of the year and again why it is so important to drive more and more costs out of the business.

But, at the same time, very focused on driving more profitability in Enterprise. In fact, as I looked at our deals we signed in the second quarter versus the first quarter, margin was up about 250 basis points on those deals quarter to quarter. So I think that was a very good sign.

You know, from a Wireless postpaid ARPU, we think there is upside as we go through the next couple of years. Our smartphone lineup, if you think about it, over the last year, we have solved the problem with the Droid franchise where we were a little bit behind in terms of the smartphone lineup. That is paying dividends for us right now. We expect those dividends to accelerate. That our lineup is going to do extremely well.

I would love to see 3% to 4%. I think we will get better. I think the other company that you indicated they do have a higher concentration of smartphones in their customer base than we do today. But that gap is going to close. Because we have got great devices, great lineup, and, of course, our distribution is a machine quarter after quarter. So I think you are going to see improving performance there. And it just comes back to the issue I said earlier is we believe there is tremendous opportunity to continue to drive shareholder value in this business fueled principally on the Wireless side.

OPERATOR: Brett Feldman, Deutsche Bank.

BRETT FELDMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: First of all, I just want to congratulate Ron on the great opportunity and wish you well. I just wanted to go back quickly here to Wireless margins. You gave a lot of color earlier about what you're doing, particularly on the cost management side. You are coming in at an all-time record this quarter in terms of EBITDA margin. I just wanted to maybe get a bit more color around what the ultimate goal here is. Is the cost-saving initiative, is that designed to help you guys sustain what is a margin level that is maybe 200 to 300 basis points higher than normally people would have expected? Or are you really just trying to create capacity so that you can keep your foot on the gas in terms of driving data, in terms of incurring the subsidies that you would get from higher smartphone sales and maybe the higher costs you are eventually going to incur from running the LTE network?

JOHN KILLIAN: Look, I think from a Wireless perspective we have always been a very balanced company in terms of not just looking at top line, not just looking at growth, really looking at all the levers to drive shareholder value. We still are in the same place. So we are going to have a lot of focus.

And I have said this since I have been on this job, I have said I think there is opportunity to continue to grow the Wireless business very nicely, and we think growth is going to accelerate. Right? We think there is not going to be a deceleration in growth. There is actually going to be a next wave fueled by data and video where growth is going to get better. But, at the same time, we have the opportunity to take costs out of the model and become a more efficient provider. And Lowell and his team are extremely focused on that. So I like our position here from a Wireless perspective and where we have the ability to go.

BRETT FELDMAN: And I think this should be a little bit more specific. I mean you're doing a great job with smartphones. You are a little bit over half your sales in your direct channel now are smartphones rather than integrated devices. But based on your lineup, you could easily see that at 70% or 80% in the not too distant future. You are probably going to be incurring some additional costs as you get ramped on LTE. I'm just trying to set expectations here. Should we assume that at some point that might create a little bit of incremental pressure on the margins, or do you really feel comfortable that what you have done from a cost management side can keep things in a range, even as you ramp in those areas?

JOHN KILLIAN: I feel very comfortable that we can both grow the top line of the business and deliver and just continue to deliver the industry-leading profitability that we have delivered. There is no question there is going to be a higher take-up of smartphones and multimedia devices, but we are very well positioned for that. There is also a nice return from that because they are higher ARPU-based customers. So I don't think anyone's network, anyone's distribution is better positioned to take advantage and drive it to the bottom line than we are, and we are very focused on it.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Ron, good luck. John, sorry to beat a dead horse here, but one of your major competitors when they started growing out smartphones, they saw the margins get depressed quite a bit. You are not seeing that now, and it sounds like you don't expect to see that. Is it because the Droid maybe has a lot lower subsidies than the Droid lineup than some of the other high-end smartphones out there?

And secondly, could you just give us maybe a little bit more -- oh, sorry, on that point it sounds like you're saying that you are not going to see any supply chain problems with the Droid lineup in the second half of the year. Maybe just comment on that.

And then just, lastly, can you give us a bit of a regulatory update? Are you you guys talking to the FCC about ways to avoid the Title 2 regulation discussions that are ongoing? That would be helpful. Thanks.

JOHN KILLIAN: Okay. So Tim, smartphone subsidy levels, subsidy levels because smartphone devices cost you more money, our COGS is up. But we are getting -- it is a nice trade-off here. And if you look at our machine in terms of what we built over time, we have the ability to manage that and absorb it and still drive good margins, and we believe we can.

Now if we had one quarter where we had 3 million Droid net-adds, there is probably going to be a little bit of an impact. But, by the way, I would take that impact because of what it is going to do ultimately for value and shareholder value. So we are focused, as we have always said, both on growth and profitability. We will continue to be focused on that. We are taking costs out of our supply chain process, and we will continue to do that. We are managing inventory levels extremely tightly, which is appropriate.

From a supply chain perspective on supply of smartphones, we need to manage through it, which we are. These are kind of global issues with certain devices, but we are in a good position here. We think we can fulfill the requirements we have as we go through the second half of the year. We are working extremely closely with all of our manufacturers, and we think we are extremely well positioned.

The other comment I would make here, Tim, on the Washington front, yes, we are actively, actively engaged, including Ivan and Tom Tauke and Randy Milch on all of the issues, both with the policy makers, as well as other industry participants. And we will have to watch -- we will continue to watch this, and we are optimistic that this will come out in the right place for us and for the industry. But time will tell on that. So not a lot more that I could comment on there right now.

I just want to add one other thought here for you before we close off. We did complete the Frontier transaction. I know you are all anxious for pro formas. We will get that out to you. But, as we look back on that, that was a very, very good transaction for us and for Verizon. When we first announced the deal, there were about 4.8 million lines in those territories.

As you know, we had a fixed value effectively. The value per line was about $1791. By the time we completed the transaction, it was about $2,140 per line. So we are very satisfied with what we have done with the Frontier transaction. We think we have gotten very good value here for the Verizon shareholder both in terms of the value they get in Frontier and the debt relief. So it is a transaction we are very pleased with, and our team I think did an outstanding job working with Frontier on all of the transition.

I would also like to just publicly acknowledge Ron on this call. Many of you did that, but he has done a terrific job for us over the last several years. We will be announcing his replacement shortly in August, and I think it will be a top-notch individual. And, of course, that individual will have the guidance of Ron on what needs to be done here. So Ron, I would just like to thank you, and I know from the industry you will be getting a lot of thanks.

RON LATAILLE: Thank you very much, John. And Brad, that concludes our call today. Thanks, everybody, for joining us.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cscm : Supply Chain Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100806e67n000p5
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,757 words
   PD
22 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (Operator instructions). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, of Verizon.

   TD
RON LATAILLE, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2010 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Ron Lataille, and with me this morning is John Killian, our Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are available on our investor relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our website.

As we indicated on our last earnings conference call, beginning this quarter we are no longer adjusting reported earnings results, instead only reporting GAAP earnings, consistent with trends in corporate reporting. Of course, we will continue to provide the detailed information you need to understand and analyze our reported results, including the identification of material nonoperational items.

For the first quarter GAAP earnings were $0.14 per share. These earnings results include a total of $0.42 of nonoperational charges, the largest of which is for reduced tax benefits related to retiree health care. This one-time non-cash tax charge totaled $962 million or $0.34 per share.

In addition, we incurred a non-cash charge of $0.03 per share related to pension settlement losses resulting from our previously announced separation plans. As you know, pension accounting rules require that settlement losses be recorded once prescribed payment thresholds have been reached.

We also incurred nonoperational costs in connection with the spinoff of our local exchange business in 14 states. As we've previously discussed, these costs are related to network, software and other activities required for these facilities to function as a separate company. This quarter these "get-ready" costs amounted to $0.04 per share. Lastly, we incurred $0.01 per share this quarter related to Alltel merger integration costs.

I would also point out that all of these nonoperational items are recorded at the consolidated level and therefore do not affect any comparison of our Wireless or Wireline segment results to prior periods.

One last item I would like to mention relates to certain revenue reclassifications within the Wireline segment, due primarily to business customer shifts between mass market, global enterprise and global wholesale. The largest shift involved businesses with 20 or more employees. These accounts are now being managed by our enterprise sales teams and the corresponding revenues will be reported on the global enterprise line. Revenue from businesses with less than 20 employees will continue to be included in the mass market line. Prior-period history has been reclassified and is provided in the supplemental schedules and historical files on our website. These changes in revenue line item reporting did not have a significant effect on historical growth rates.

With that, I will now turn the call over to John Killian.

JOHN KILLIAN, CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the operational details, let me start with some brief comments on the business overall and add some perspective to the results for this quarter.

In January we outlined our key focus areas for 2010. In summary, we said that we expect to continue generating solid cash flows and maintain tight control over capital spending. Second, we would continue to capitalize on our investments in Wireless, FiOS and global IP networks to grow revenues and market share, drive deeper penetration and increase ARPU. Finally, we would remain focused on our cost structure, achieve meaningful cost reductions and make sure the business is ready to quickly benefit from improvements in employment figures and the overall economy.

In the first quarter we executed on the business plan we described to you. Free cash flow grew over 25% this quarter, driven by strong cash flow from operations and lower capital spending. We saw good customer growth in Wireless and FiOS, and we may be seeing some positive early signs of recovery in the business markets.

Revenue trends this quarter were better on a consolidated basis as well as in the Wireless and Wireline segments. In Wireless, data growth was particularly strong this quarter, driven by the significant amount of smart phone sales and upgrades. We feel very good about our retail postpaid ARPU and customer retention performance this quarter.

On the cost side we continue to benefit from the synergy savings of the Alltel acquisition, and Wireless margins expanded this quarter. In our Wireline segment we continue to be aggressive and persistent in our cost restructuring to preserve margins. Force reductions of 5000 last quarter and 2300 this quarter resulted in cost savings of about $80 million in the first quarter. However, the continued economic pressures on the top line, incremental pension and retiree benefit costs and higher costs related to record-setting storms affecting much of our franchise territory resulted in a lower margin. My goal continues to be to stabilize the Wireline margin this year, and we are on track with our plans to accomplish this goal. And I'm confident that we can achieve this objective and expand margins in the future.

Lastly, on the strategic front, our pending transactions involving the sale of the Alltel divestiture markets and the spinoff of access lines are both moving forward.

With this is an overview, let's turn to slide four and start our detailed discussion of the quarter. As Ron indicated earlier, our first-quarter earnings results included the nonoperational charges you see here, a majority being non-cash and related to deferred tax and pension expense recognition. Our cash summary presents a much different growth picture. Cash flow from operations in the quarter was strong, up 7.5% over last year. Our capital spending was down $251 million or 6.8%. Free cash flow at the end of the quarter was $3.7 billion, up almost $750 million or 25.6%.

In Wireline, first-quarter capital expenditures of $1.6 billion were down $437 million year-over-year. In Wireless, capital costs were higher by $219 million. Although we've started the year conservatively, I would reiterate that our 2010 guidance for capital spending is in the $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion range. As far as the balance sheet is concerned, we continue to reduce leverage. In the first three months we've reduced net debt by $1.7 billion, and net debt is down more than 10% from a year ago.

Let's now turn to revenue trends, which are on slide five. Consolidated revenues for the quarter were $26.9 billion, up 1.2% from the first quarter a year ago, a better growth rate than each of the last two quarters. This reflects improvements in both Wireless and Wireline. Wireless revenues were up $661 million or 4.4%, driven primarily by data. Wireline revenues were down 2.9% this quarter, due primarily to continued economic pressures in our business markets.

But FiOS revenue growth continues to be strong, up 40% year on year. This is the third consecutive quarter of lower year-over-year revenue declines in Wireline.

With that snapshot of revenues, let's move to the segments next, starting with Wireless on slide six. In the first quarter, total service revenues were up $770 million or 5.9% versus the year-ago quarter, and we saw a strong sequential improvement of 2.2%, which is the highest sequential growth rate we've seen in the last six quarters. This revenue performance is, of course, driven by a strong focus on expanding the data market. Data revenues, which comprised one third of total service revenues in the quarter, grew 26.4% year-over-year. Total data ARPU was 18% higher than a year ago.

In terms of the components of data growth, quarterly revenues from Web and e-mail services was $2.4 billion, up 43.5% from first quarter last year. Messaging revenues of $1.8 billion grew 16.2%. Our strategy continues to center on taking advantage of the expanding smartphone category. Our approach has been to feature a number of different operating systems and platforms, which gives us the opportunity to not only attract new customers but aggressively upgrade existing customers to high-end, data-capable devices. In addition to the obvious benefits to metrics like ARPU and churn, this will drive sustained data revenue growth, and we have plenty of upside in terms of data penetration.

At the end of the first quarter, more than 30% of our retail postpaid base had 3G multimedia devices or smartphones, up from 26% at the end of 2009; 17% had smartphones, and 13% had 3G multimedia devices. We believe customer demand for data mobility will only increase as we further strengthen our device lineup and feature innovative applications and content.

Let's take a look at customer growth on slide seven. We've added a new chart this quarter to highlight a category of "other connections" not previously disclosed or counted in our subscriber metrics in the past. At the end of the first quarter we had 92.8 million customers and more than 100 million total connections. Our high-quality customer base is heavily weighted toward retail postpaid customers, which comprise 89% of our subscriber base. This customer segment remains our key focus as we continue to drive revenue growth through increased data usage and penetration.

In the first quarter we added more than 1.5 million net new customers with 423,000 retail postpaid net adds and 1.3 million reseller additions. With regard to the change in the mix, we typically see seasonal effects in the first quarter. In any given year the sequential decline in retail postpaid net adds between fourth and first quarter can be about 25% to 30%. This quarter the decline was magnified, but we did not see any significant shift in market share, overall porting ratios or any increase in churn. In fact, or churn rates improved. Total churn showed declines both on a year-over-year basis and sequentially and postpaid churn posted a 6% improvement compared to the first quarter last year.

I would also add that these improvements are from already remarkably low industry-leading churn levels. Although total Wireless market penetration is above 90%, we are still very bullish about our growth opportunities in the retail postpaid market. By continuing to strengthen our smartphone device lineup and offering differentiated services like NFL Mobile and Skype Mobile, we will stimulate upgrades within our existing base as well as attract and retain high-value customers.

Net adds in our reseller channel were very strong again this quarter, which is not surprising given typical prepaid seasonality. The reseller market is a low cost channel for us and an effective way for us to attract the incremental prepaid customer. I would also remind you that we do not have unlimited pricing arrangements with our reseller partners.

The new category, other connections, totaled 7.3 million at this time and will include all kinds of machine-to-machine devices like vehicle tracking, telematics, eReaders, consumer electronics, smart grid solutions, medical alert devices, essentially anything that has a wireless chip in it.

Looking ahead, particularly when we commercialize LTE, the proliferation of these types of devices will be another source of incremental wireless growth. As we've mentioned in the past, we have a separate organization dedicated to Open Development, and Verizon wireless is taking a leadership role in facilitating and stimulating innovation in this area. Examples include nPhase, which is our joint venture with Qualcomm to provide advanced M2M solutions, the establishment of the Verizon Technology Innovation Center in Waltham and the creation of the 4G Venture Forum.

Let's take a closer look at our retail performance on slide eight. Our focus continues to be on the retail postpaid market. It is the largest and most important portion of our business. Retail service revenue, which accounts for about 85% of total wireless revenues, grew 5% in the first quarter on a year-over-year basis. As I mentioned earlier, our retail postpaid ARPU this quarter grew 0.6% versus the year-ago quarter. This accretion is driven by our data growth strategy with an increasing percentage of our customers using smart phones and multimedia devices.

Device upgrades were strong as 8.6% of our postpaid base upgraded in the first quarter, representing an increase of almost 15% from a year ago. This is extremely positive from a churn and ARPU accretion perspective. Customers are responding very well to our portfolio of smartphones and multimedia devices. 36% of device sales from our direct channels were smart phones with a $30 monthly data plan, and 24% were from multimedia devices which have a minimum $10 monthly data plan attached.

The pricing simplification we implemented in January is helping to drive some of these excellent metrics, and the results were exactly what we anticipated. While we experienced the downward migration of customers from the $99 unlimited price point, we also saw a healthy migration of customers up to new $69 unlimited price point.

Another positive development is an increasing percentage of gross adds or new customers opting for voice plans at 900 minutes per month or more, which obviously bodes well for revenue and ARPU. As Lowell described on the investor call in January, our goal is to drive further smartphone penetration and stimulate data growth, which will offset some of the voice declines. In addition, as we launch LTE later this year, having a large number of data customers provides us with a great opportunity to meet their increasing need for higher speed and more sophisticated application-based devices.

The first-quarter results indicate that this is the right strategy. Revenue growth improved, our key customer retention metrics improved and we saw retail postpaid ARPU accretion.

In terms of profitability we had another excellent quarter, generating $6.4 billion of EBITDA, up 5.7% from first quarter last year. Our first quarter margin performance of 46% is a strong result, reflecting both lower retail gross additions and stronger upgrades to higher end devices. I think the wireless team did a great job this quarter, driving this margin result, given our aggressive upgrade strategy.

Looking ahead, you can expect us to continue achieving both growth and profitability with a focus on gaining share in the retail postpaid market and increasing the penetration of smartphones and other data devices, which will further expand the data market.

Let's move now to our Wireline segment on slide 10. As I mentioned earlier, we continue to see both cyclical and secular pressures in our Wireline consumer and business markets with total Wireline revenues down 2.9% from a year ago. Our broadband and video products are driving a significant shift in our consumer revenue mix, and we continue to be very pleased with the success of FiOS. FiOS revenues are up 40%, and ARPU increased 5% year-over-year. Managed and IP services continued to transform the business revenue mix. In the first quarter, strategic services revenue in enterprise was up 4.2%.

Let's take a closer look at both the consumer and business markets, starting on slide 11. A year ago FiOS made up about 30% of our consumer revenue. At the end of this quarter, FiOS represented more than 41%, a significant increase in just four quarters. The strength of our broadband and video products continues to drive consumer revenue and ARPU growth.

Consumer revenue in the first quarter grew 0.9% on a year-over-year basis, and we continue to see strong growth in consumer ARPU, which increased to more than $78 this quarter, up 12.3% from a year ago. The entire FiOS initiative continues to be very successful, and we saw very positive levels of customer additions for both FiOS TV and Internet this quarter. We have surpassed the 3 million customer mark in FiOS TV with 168,000 net adds this quarter, and with 12 million homes open for sale, penetration of FiOS TV is 25%.

In FiOS Internet, we added 185,000 customers this quarter, bringing our total to 3.6 million. With 12.6 million homes open for sale, Internet penetration is 29%.

Let's move next to our business markets on slide 12, which shows our global enterprise and global wholesale revenue performance. As you can see, revenue in each of these categories has been relatively stable for the last five quarters. As a result, we are seeing improved comparisons on a year-over-year basis. Global enterprise revenues was down $57 million or 1.4% in the first quarter compared with a 4.8% year-over-year decline in the fourth quarter. The steady increase in the number of private IP site activations is an encouraging indicator, as are CPE sales, which were higher than we typically see in the first quarter. Enterprise long-distance usage volumes, which have typically seasonal fluctuations, showed year-over-year growth for the first time in quite a while.

All of these factors point to early signs of a recovery that should help our revenue performance in future quarters. Global wholesale revenue in the first quarter declined $69 million or 2.9% year-over-year compared with a 4.9% decline in the fourth quarter. While we continue to see growth in Ethernet services related to wireless backhaul, we are not seeing a pickup in wholesale long-distance usage volumes yet. Foreign currency effects this quarter were similar to what we have experienced in the fourth quarter.

So the key point here is that revenue is stable and there is some optimism for improved performance in a recovery starting in the second half of the year. Let's cover Wireline profitability next.

From my perspective we are competing well in the market and we remain focused within the Wireline segment on four key strategies -- driving FiOS growth, improving enterprise, driving costs out and capital efficiency. In the first-quarter the fundamental trends underlying the overall Wireline results have not changed. The secular changes in the consumer market and the impact of the economic downturn in our business markets are still quite evident. And, while Wireline revenues are still declining, it is at a lower rate, which is positive.

The facts are that in the first quarter the sequential decline in Wireline revenues was nearly $0.25 billion. We did realize about $80 million in savings this quarter attributable to force reductions. However, these savings were more than offset by a combination of cost pressures, including an unusually high amount of storm related costs and incremental pension and retiree benefit expenses.

I am confident that, as we go through the year, we will be able to stabilize the Wireline margin with a combination of better revenue performance and our cost restructuring efforts. Every line item of expense is being attacked within our Wireline business. Let's take a look at some of the key areas.

First, headcount -- in January I indicated that our plans were to reduce the Wireline workforce by a similar level to what we achieved in 2009. A reduction of 10,000 people, for example, results in an annual run rate cost savings of about $600 million. In the first quarter we reduced our workforce by 2300. Keep in mind that our teams have executed well in this area with more than 28,000 reductions since the beginning of 2008.

Next, real estate -- we have been doing an extensive amount of work rationalizing our real estate portfolio to reduce costs. This includes plans to close facilities and reducing square footage, reductions in energy usage as well as facility maintenance savings. Our plan identifies roughly $125 million in cost savings in 2010 alone. Over the course of the next three years, we plan to reduce our total square footage by about 10%.

Other initiatives involve cost savings from network convergence, which includes center consolidations, operating and support system eliminations and new technology efficiencies. We've identified $100 million in projected savings here by the end of 2010. Other areas of projected savings include managing third-party interconnect and content costs and a variety of reduction initiatives associated with supply chain, inventory management and energy. Over the course of the next two years we have plans in place to resize our cost structure and capture run rate savings in the range of $1.5 billion to $2 billion. Once again, we have a well organized and realistic plan, and I'm confident that we will capture these savings.

To sum up, as we move into the second quarter we remain focused on the key areas I mentioned earlier -- first, continuing to generate solid cash flows and maintaining tight control over capital spending. Second, continuing to capitalize on our investments in wireless, FiOS and global IP networks to grow revenue and market share, drive deeper penetration and increase ARPU. And, third, remaining focused on our cost structure, achieving meaningful cost reductions and making sure the business is ready to quickly benefit from improvements in the employment rates and the overall economy.

Ron, I'll turn it back to you now for questions.

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, John. Brad, John is now available to take questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) John Hodulik, UBS.

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Maybe just a couple quick questions on Wireless. It seems that the growth seems to be draining out of the postpaid market, in general, pretty quickly. Is this a good sort of mix of net adds we can expect between postpaid and reseller going forward? And if so, I know there's a lot of moving parts, including some pretty strong postpaid ARPU trends. But what are the margin implications? We've typically, in the past, talked about mid-40s. But given this potential shift in growth going forward, how do you see margins playing out from here?

JOHN KILLIAN: John, good morning, and it's good to hear you got back from London. I heard you were stranded over there.

JOHN HODULIK: Yes, it was a longer trip than I thought.

JOHN KILLIAN: Yes, let me give you a couple of thoughts here on this. If you look at the quarter, we gained 423,000 postpaid customers. Typically, the first quarter is down seasonally somewhere in the range of 20% to 30%. Obviously, that was magnified in this quarter. We came off a very strong fourth quarter, as you know, where we had gained 1.1 million really on the back of the strong introduction of the Droid and the Android-based operating devices. We had no really major new devices launched in Q1.

The Android itself based operating system continues to do very well. In fact, when you look at actually gross numbers, we moved more of them in Q1 than we did in Q4. So we are very satisfied with what we would label as the Droid franchise. And you're going to hear a lot more about that in the coming months, particularly with an important launch for us coming up shortly, which is the HTC Incredible, which the early reviews on are extremely positive.

Now, the other thing in the quarter -- we put a lot of emphasis around upgrades, and we did see an uptick of about 15% in our upgrade level. Now, that's great news for us. It's great news for ARPU, it's great news for retention. And by the way, we see of a lot of ability with tail winds there to continue to do well with that.

As we go forward, just a couple of thoughts for you. We believe we can do better from a postpaid perspective than we did in Q1. That will be particularly on the backs of new product introductions. We are not ready to throw the towel in, to say that postpaid growth is going to be substantially lower. Now, by the way, we recognize where penetration is. We don't think we're going to have 2 million quarters, but we think we can do better than we did in Q1.

Now, I would also underpin this saying we are going to be very responsible in terms of how we go after that. We are very focused on profitability, making sure we get the right mix. We do have a huge upgrade opportunity, as I mentioned before. And the other thought I would give you here is that this is really a foundation, as we look at it, for our LTE launch later this year. We are more excited than ever about the prospects and the capability of LTE. So, as we get more and more of our customers with smartphone-based devices, it's going to be a very nice transition into the LTE launch.

Now, a couple of thoughts for you here on margin. We had a very good quarter from a margin perspective, 46%. As you know, we don't have particular point guidance out there. We have seen, particularly in these economic times, a bit of a mix shift towards the all-you-can-eat plans. That's really driven more on the lower end of the marketplace. We've seen some of our prepaid base move to the reseller plans. We've seen some of the lower end of the market. That will probably continue for a little while, but we still believe there will be a lot of strength on postpaid.

Now, just to refresh you on this, our reseller pricing is not unlimited. Okay? It's really a bucket of minutes. The reseller customers that we are attracting now carry much higher ARPUs than our traditional ones and are very profitable and are not dilutive to our overall margin. So we think we can continue to grow margin quite nicely in the Wireless business and be in a very good position.

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, Oppenheimer.

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: John, just a clarification on the postpaid adds and then the strategic question. Can you maybe talk a little bit how postpaid adds progressed through the quarter? And I guess you are saying you are not really seeing any shifts in market share because I guess we are hearing at Sprint and T-Mobile that Sprint, particularly, is doing a little bit better with some of their new pricing moves. But just to clarify, you're not really seeing any shifts there?

JOHN KILLIAN: On that is, our market share remains strong. We're still port positive here, so I'd say we are pretty even in performance as we went through the quarter. We probably picked up a little bit towards the March time frame. But again, just to reiterate, we believe there still is postpaid growth out there for us. We believe our network and our offerings are a differentiator.

TIM HORAN: Just on the strategic front, there's been a lot of articles lately about Vodafone and their ownership of Verizon Wireless and some speculation on how to simplify that. What do you think is the most likely outcome here? Is maybe just status quo fine for you guys for the next couple of years? And related to this, there was a few articles, I think some misunderstanding on the dividend. You got a lot of calls that you might have to cut the dividend because the Wireline can't support it.

Do you see any issue in porting cash up from the Wireless unit to corporate unit? I don't see what the concern is, other than you have to pay some of that cash to Vodafone. But they are a shareholder like everyone else.

JOHN KILLIAN: Tim, it's a real surprise I'm getting this question, by the way.

TIM HORAN: Yes, right, right.

JOHN KILLIAN: So let me give you a couple of thoughts here. One is, we've just passed the 10th year anniversary -- hard to believe -- of Verizon Wireless being created, and in partnership with Vodafone I think our teams have done a great job. We've had a great working relationship with them over the last 10 years, and the business is doing extremely well.

Now, let me hit the dividend issue first because I think it's important. I want to make sure, from our perspective that our shareholders understand that we view the dividend as being very safe. We are a business that generates a lot of cash flow, over $30 billion of cash flow. We have a lot of different levers we can pull to make sure we have the ability to pay the dividend. And I'm surprised that becomes as big of a question as it does become, given all of the levers and all of the cash flow that we have. We have numerous sources of cash that is being generated.

And by the way, paying the dividend to our shareholders -- our shareholders are a priority for us. So the dividend and making sure we have stability and being in a position to recommend to the Board dividend increases is highly, highly important to us.

Now, on the strategic side of it, Tim, over the last 10 years you and I both have watched -- there are cycles where the whole ownership question gets more and more attention. We are in one of those times right now. From where I sit, the business is working extremely well. We've never made a secret of the fact that, under the right conditions, right terms, of course we would be interested in buying out the minority interest, the 45%. Why wouldn't we be, in a business that's working as well as it is?

Now, from my perspective as the CFO, that's very much a financial transaction. We run the business today, we operate the business, we manage it, we control it. So I would look at what is the price tag that the other party -- if they were interested in selling, what's the price tag, what's the multiple, does it make sense to us from a financial perspective? I don't know where that's going to go, but our view is pretty clear on that, from that perspective.

The discussions around merger that have been out there in the press -- Ivan commented on that recently, and it does reflect the belief of the management team. We are not convinced there's industrial logic behind putting the two organizations together. By the way, not that we are not open to listening, hearing new information on that. But we do not see a significant level of synergies. Cross-border mergers have not been, historically, highly successful. A lot of management complexity comes with that. So, while we are always interested to hear about that, we don't really see the industrial logic.

Now, on the cash flow from wireless, the great news is there's a lot of cash flow. It's growing, it's getting better, it's going to continue to get better. We've been clear what our view is of that in the short term, which is to use it to de-lever Verizon Wireless. That is still our view. We have an annual discussion with Vodafone in December of each year. We'll have another one next year.

There is not religion, though. I don't want you to think that we would never dividend cash out of Verizon Wireless. At some point, when we are in a position where leverage is much lower than it is today, and when it is appropriate, we will dividend cash out of Verizon Wireless. It's just not a 2010 event. We'll look at that again as we get into 2011. But it's an event off into the future.

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A couple of FiOS questions. There's been a lot of talk about your FiOS build plans here, and I note that Wireline CapEx was down about 22% year-over-year, although you reiterated your full-year guidance. Perhaps you could just talk about -- clarify your build year-to-date and your build plans for the rest of the year and what's going on there?

And then, on the FiOS ARPU, up about 5%, what's driving that? Is that changes in the mix, is that price increases? And where do you see that going over time?

JOHN KILLIAN: Obviously, I said in the prepared remarks we are very satisfied with where we are from a FiOS perspective. We are very focused on growing penetration. Our build plans; we're still on the path to build ultimately to about 18 million premises within our franchise territories. This year, we're going to pass about 1 million premises in 2010, give or take 100,000-200,000 on either side. Part of that is an intentional strategy this year to focus down on a lot of the inventory we have, a very strong focus around the MDU population within our franchise territory. We don't believe we've had enough focus there, and it's a great opportunity and a very cost-effective way to drive new subscribers in new retention.

Now, from an RCM perspective, you are right. We've had very good growth in FiOS RCM, more focused on the video side. We have had some price increases there, which are natural, in terms of the video side. We've also seen improvements in some of our video on demand kind of services that are also contributing to that.

So we are very pleased with FiOS. The profitability continues to improve. We've been operating income-positive the last couple of quarters. The cost metrics that we believed we would see ultimately with FiOS has positioned us very well, and we think we've got a great foundation here on the Wireline side for the future, that we will have somewhere in the range of, post the Frontier spinout, 70% to 80%, in that range, of footprint covered with fiber. And that's going to position us very well for the future.

We've also got focus on making sure we've got capital discipline within the Wireline business. We have suffered a little bit from the economy and some of the cyclical change. So there is focus on making sure we are investing at the right level in that business.

SIMON FLANNERY: So just to be clear, are you going to be finished with the FiOS build at the end of this year, or might some of it now, if you are going to do 1 million a year instead of 2 million or 3 million, you are going to be a little bit more, still, in '11 and '12?

JOHN KILLIAN: Good question, Simon. We'll have a little more to do into 2011 and maybe even to 2012. We're just stretching it out a little bit longer. We felt that was appropriate, given where the economy was, given some of the attention we've got around the Frontier spinout. Don't read this at all to be we are not satisfied with FiOS; we are very satisfied with FiOS, and we'll continue to evaluate that going forward.

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America.

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: First, I guess, would just be following up on that, on the FiOS side. Have you guys seen any change, you think, over the course of the quarter in the competitive dynamic in both DSL and FiOS relative to the incremental push the cable companies have been making on DOCSIS 3.0, especially Comcast, I guess? How do you think, competitively, say, looking into 2010-2011 do you think you are stacking up now relative to cable in, say, 2008-2009?

I guess the second question, if I could, would just be on the iPhone -- not the question you think, but it's clearer now, I think, than it's been that there's probably an iPhone refresh coming around the middle of the year. Obviously, last year's game plan was to wait. It came, you guys really got more aggressive on your smartphone portfolio than you had really ever been in the third quarter, and that led to a market share swing back in your favor.

Looking at it this year, what would be the game plan this year that you would do differently, if anything, to make sure that there isn't a market share swing in AT&T's favor, the way we saw last year?

JOHN KILLIAN: From a competitive environment, from cable on video and HSI, we really see no change. It is a very competitive environment, as you know, and continues to be. But I don't see anything in the quarter or this year that has really shifted. When you look at our results, we did better in the first quarter than we did in the fourth quarter. Our total broadband was 89,000, just short of 100,000. That was up on third and fourth quarter a year ago. So we continue to do reasonably well here. We'd like to drive to a little bit higher numbers as we go through the next several quarters. And we think, with the economy starting to come back a little bit, we're positioned for that. Our Wireline team is very focused on it.

So we don't see -- and, Dave, customer satisfaction and independent reports continue to put FiOS at the top of the list in all areas. So we think we've got a great product here. You're incenting people to change. Right? They've already got service, typically. So that's the trick for us.

So on the second question, Dave, it's really more of what we are doing now. We think we have found a very strong lineup. And, again, not just based on one operating system, but the Droid, Android-based system, the RIM systems. We've had some Microsoft launches recently. But you will see a lot of emphasis around the Droid as we go through the year. We think we have a very competitive lineup. There's no question, Apple has done a great job with the iPhone. But look at our results. We've performed very well both from a growth -- our revenue growth this quarter on the Wireless side is better than it was last quarter. Our service revenue is upticking. We have several different new devices coming as the year goes on, most notably the one I just mentioned, which is the HTC Incredible.

So I think we'll be earlier in the process this year of having very strong devices to be very competitive. But, again, based on multiple systems, and we think we'll be in a very good position.

OPERATOR: Michael Rollins, Citi Investment Research.

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Just thinking a little bit more about what you said on the Wireline cost-cutting -- so if -- I think I got the numbers right, you are saying like $1.5 billion, $2 billion cost cutting goal. If you take the higher end of that on Wireline revenue, I think it's a little over 400 basis points on the revenue. And so is your goal to take the margin level from like 21.7% and assume pension is unchanged from here, just to take that out of the equation -- are you thinking that the margin over a couple-year period can get back to like a 26%?

And as you benchmark yourself around your competition, where do you have conviction as to where Wireline margins should be for your company over time?

JOHN KILLIAN: Let me give you a couple thoughts here. You know we don't put out guidance numbers on that and point estimates. But let me just give you a little color to what we think happened in the quarter, where we are focused on and where we think we are going.

So if you look at the margin in the quarter at 21.7%, we had to eat through a sequential revenue decline of about $225 million. By the way, we see good news there because rate of revenue decline in the quarter was only 2.9%. It was 3.9% in the fourth quarter. So we see improvement there.

We had a couple of unique issues in the quarter that hurt us a little bit. We had mentioned that this year we do have some incremental pension and OPEB costs. That was about $40 million in the quarter. We had -- and this is one we don't usually like to point to and talk to, but it was such a factor in this quarter I'm going to mention it. We did have extraordinary weather conditions on the East Coast. That minimally cost us $50 million in the quarter. That was related to a lot of overtime because of the flooding conditions, record snowfall in the mid-Atlantic states, which you usually don't have, that caused complications.

So there are a lot of issues that contributed to the first quarter. Now, when you look at our focus going forward, it's really focused around four items. It's continuing to focus on FiOS. We are very pleased with the profitability, where FiOS is. But we think it can get a lot better as we continue to get more and more scale. So that's going to continue to ramp up and help us. We think our enterprise and business services, as the economy gets better, as we go through '10 -- probably saw a little sign of that in the first quarter. I don't think there was much of it in our numbers, but we think we'll see more of that, particularly in the second half of the year. That will be very helpful to us.

Now, on the cost side, I hope you get the feel here that we are very focused on improving and continuing to improve the cost structure. I've mentioned on previous calls the last couple of years we have reduced our Wireline workforce by about 13,000 per year. And I said we would do the same this year. I actually think we have, now, the ability to do more than that this year. You'll probably read in the press later today that we did reach agreement with our unions and our East Coast unions, the CWA and the IBEW, on an enhanced incentive offer last night. And that is going to allow us to take out a significant, significant number of associates. And one of our limitations on our ability to downsize the workforce was we were limited in our ability to lay off in our East Coast contracts. We could lay off, post 2003 hired employees, and we did some of that last year. But beyond that, it was voluntary incentives that drove it.

We reached agreement on an enhancement. And I think this year we should be able to beat the 13,000 number. I'm not going to put an exact number on that yet because we are still factoring through that based on the agreement. But I think we'll be very focused on additional force reductions this year.

In addition to that, we are also very focused around cash flow in the Wireline business. That ties back to some of the other questions, and capital efficiency will improve. So I'm not going to put a number or a date on when this is going to turn, but I think I am convinced that we have all of the right initiatives in place. We have the conviction to get it done, and that we should see the ability to stabilize and then improve our Wireline margins over time.

MICHAEL ROLLINS: If I could just ask one follow-up, when you typically lose revenue, you're typically able to take some costs out of that as well. Should we look at the cost-cutting target of $1.5 billion to $2 billion as incremental to what you normally are able to take out with revenue, so sort of an extra turbo boost, if you would, to the reduction in cost? Or does that $1.5 billion to $2 billion incorporate what you expect to save as revenue erodes for whatever period of time you are forecasting?

JOHN KILLIAN: Just a couple of thoughts here, Mike. I think with the news of last night we might be able to do better than even the $2 billion. So I'm not going to give you a breakout of how much is tied to -- what I think you're going to see is improving top line within the Wireline business, based on FiOS and the enterprise side, and you are going to see very visible cost reductions. Some of that is incremental to the normal, but I'm not going to place an exact number on that.

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, JP Morgan.

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Can you give us a little more detail around your comment about market share shift within Wireless and you guys not seeing that, sort of the metrics that you are looking at there? Because certainly, it seems like the pay-in-advance marketplace is taking more and more share of growth out in the market. I'm just trying to see if you are looking at purely churn within your base or just loss of gross adds overall.

And then, secondly, on the enterprise stuff it sounds like we've got some good data points coming from both AT&T as well as you guys. Can you just give us a little more color on where you are seeing that, whether it's demand for new orders, things coming through the pipeline?

And then sorry to bother you with the last one. But in addition to the enterprise comment, how important is the enterprise recovery to your margin stability comment in Wireline? Is it that equally with cost reduction, or is there one that's more important than the other?

JOHN KILLIAN: On your first one, on market share, we look at really every month we get studies from Nielsen on share shifts and all of that. Obviously, we look at our churn numbers, which are terrific, the postpaid churn at 1.07%. We look at our porting ratio. So from our view, we are hanging in there very nicely, and that's at a time where there is a little slow down, as you mentioned, on the postpaid side.

So we feel good about where we are on Wireless market share, and we think we'll continue to do well as we go through the year. From an enterprise perspective, a couple of thoughts here for you -- our number in the quarter only down 1.4. It had been down 4.8 in the fourth quarter, 6.2 in third quarter. Even when you adjust for FX, we were down 2.3 in the quarter versus 5.6 in the fourth, 5.3.

So we're definitely seeing improvement here from an enterprise perspective. We've repeatedly said we've been very successful in winning new opportunities in the marketplace. We continue to do that. A number of those are incremental. We're still seeing moves on both a private IP perspective as well as security services. We did see some benefits in the quarter also from CPE. That's a good indicator, I think, of the economy. So that is all -- puts us in a good position.

Now, on how important is it, it's important. But relatively, there are four or five different major contributors that we need to get them all clicking. Cost is probably number one right now in terms of our biggest contribution but continuing the progress on FiOS, continuing the progress on enterprise, are all very important.

So, I know you have another call at 9;30, so I think we're going to call this a wrap. I just wanted to leave you with a couple of closing comments here. First of all, let me thank you for joining us today. If you look at our Wireless business, we continue to see great opportunities to grow the business and to make the business more efficient. Our strategy around aggressive 4G deployment and increased smartphone penetration through multiple operating platforms will drive data growth and continue to differentiate us from our competitors.

We remain committed to maintaining reasonable growth and strong profitability in our Wireless segment.

On the Wireline side we believe that the strategy we put in place a few years ago, that is, having a smaller footprint with the majority covered by FiOS, coupled with a more global enterprise business focused on multinationals, is the right strategy that also differentiates us from our peers and will help drive growth for the long-term. I also recognize that the issue on the Wireline segment is stabilizing and improving profitability. I do not want to overstate what we can do here in the short-term, but I believe our cost reduction initiatives will gain traction, and with an improving economy we will see better Wireline margins.

Finally, we continue to deliver strong cash flow metrics. Our dividend is strong and safe. We are maintaining good discipline in our capital spending, and our balance sheet is solid.

Thanks again for joining us today on the call.

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, John. And, Brad, that concludes our call. And thanks, everybody, for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude your conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using Verizon Conference Services. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i7902 : Telecommunications | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100506e64m000m9
  


 HD
 Q4  2006  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,293 words
   PD
29 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon fourth-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations of Verizon.  

RON LATAILLE, SVP, IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Good morning and welcome to our fourth-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Ron Lataille. With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO; Denny Strigl, our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer.  

   TD
Before we get started let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are on the Investor Relations Website. This call is being Web-cast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our Website.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in Verizon's filings with the SEC, which are available on our Website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are also on our Website.  

Earlier this month, we filed an 8-K with the SEC reclassifying previously reported historical information related to our directory business into income from discontinued operations. As you know, this was due to the Idearc spinoff transaction. As a reminder, income from discontinued operations for the fourth quarter will include about six weeks of Idearc results, two months of Dominicana, and a full quarter of Puerto Rico. In the first quarter of 2007 and until the sale closes, income from Puerto Rico will continue to be included in this line item.  

Before turning the call over to Doreen for a review of our results, I would like to cover the differences between reported and adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter.  

Reported earnings per diluted share were $0.35. Adjusted earnings or EPS before the effects of special items were $0.62. This quarter there are five special items which we are excluding from adjusted results. The largest item is a $541 million after-tax charge, which is $0.19 per share, related to our sale of Verizon Dominicana. The sale of our Dominicana property resulted in a pretax book gain of about $30 million. Offsetting this gain were $571 million of taxes recognized upon the sale per APB 23. As we previously disclosed our net cash after-tax proceeds from this transaction were about $1.7 billion.  

The next non-recurring item is a $101 million or $0.03 per share charge for costs related to the spinoff of Idearc, mainly fees related to banking, legal, auditing, and other administrative costs. As you will recall, the spinoff also generated $9 billion in cash and reduced debt.  

The last three items we are excluding from adjusted results are $55 million in after-tax charges or $0.02 per share related to severance and related pension and benefit costs, $47 million after-tax or $0.02 per share for merger integration costs, and $30 million after-tax or $0.01 per share for relocation and other costs related to our move to Verizon Center.  

You should also note that we do not exclude the effects of amortization of intangibles from our adjusted results. For the full year, amortization expense related to MCI customer lists was $190 million pretax or about $0.04 per share.  

In summary, adjusted earnings were $0.62 for the fourth quarter and $2.54 for the full year. EPS from continuing operations, that is, excluding income from Idearc, Dominicana, and Puerto Rico, were $0.52 for the fourth quarter and $2.06 for the full year.  

With that, I will now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, EVP AND CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone. Before I get into our fourth-quarter results I would like to review some of the highlights of 2006, including the progress we made in a number of strategic areas.  

As you know, we strongly believe that our strategic networks are the foundation of our business model. The Verizon wireless network has long been the undisputed quality leader and it continues to deliver industry-leading operating and financial results. In 2006, Verizon Wireless added more customers than any year in our history, 7.7 million net adds. We continued to focus on the high-quality retail market. We now have a customer base of more than 59 million, 96% of which are retail. And in the face of intense competition, we expanded ARPU and increased customer loyalty. We made significant progress in our broadband transformation. We passed more than 3 million additional homes with our high-capacity fiber network, doubling the amount of premises passed. We also doubled the number of homes open for sale. While making these significant strides in deployment we also reduced the unit costs to both passed and connect homes. We also successfully created a new video business from scratch, including new network facilities, the acquisition of content and obtained over 600 franchises covering 7.3 million households. We ended the year exceeding our subscriber expectations with more than 200,000 video customers and we expect video to gain even more momentum in 2007.  

In the Enterprise Business market, the MCI merger gives us an unsurpassed local to global network and the ability to offer advanced services to the Business customers around the world. We successfully integrated and stabilized the MCI business. We introduced more financial discipline into the customer acquisition process. And we have successfully restored revenue growth, posting both year-over-year and sequential growth in the fourth quarter.  

Our focus on investment and innovation is also positioning us to deliver additional value to shareowners as well as customers. During the course of the year, we strengthened our balance sheet and returned value to shareowners through the spinoff of Verizon Information Services, now Idearc, and the sale of our investment in the Dominican Republic. We repurchased $1.7 billion of stock in 2006. And as we have previously said, we plan to recommend to our Board that it maintain the annual dividend at $1.62 per share post-Idearc spin. And since Idearc intends to pay a dividend, Verizon shareowners that hold Idearc shares have the opportunity to in effect get a dividend increase.  

So, as I look at 2006, we have become a more innovative, competitive, global, and high-tech company. We are even more focused on our network-based organic growth strategies and more unified in how we approach our customers. We also remained focused on profitable growth and creating shareowner value.  

Okay, let's turn to Slide 4 and look at some of the details. Pro forma consolidated revenue growth was 3.9% in the fourth quarter and 3.3% for the full year. Revenues have grown sequentially each quarter this year. And about 60% of our annual growth of $2.8 billion occurred in the second half of the year, which demonstrates the positive momentum we are building. As you'll see, revenue increases this quarter were once again driven by Wireless, Broadband, and Enterprise Data Services.  

Operating income increased for both the fourth quarter and for the full year. In fact, in 2006, revenue growth was more than $1 billion greater than the increase in cash expenses leading to 10% growth in operating income and 100 basis point expansion in the operating income margin. So, strong momentum as we enter 2007.  

We ended the year with very solid cash flow results and a much stronger balance sheet. For the full year, cash from continuing operations totaled $23 billion, a 12.6% or $2.6 billion increase over 2005. Total capital spending came in at $17.1 billion, which is within the guidance range we provided in early 2006. Our CapEx to revenue ratio for 2006 was 19.4%. The year-over-year CapEx increase is primarily attributable to adding MCI, which represented about $1.6 billion of the increase. The rest is from continued investments in Wireless and Broadband growth initiatives.  

Debt was $36.4 billion at the end of the year and while this is down almost $2 billion from last year, keep in mind that the debt assumed in the MCI acquisition was not part of the 2005 year-end number.  

At the end of January, after the MCI transaction, we had $41.9 billion of net debt. So, in effect we reduced net debt by almost $9 billion since the MCI transaction.  

Let's now turn to Wireless, starting with some operational highlights. 2006 marked another year in which we sustained our growth by differentiating ourselves. We effectively and seamlessly increased network capacity to handle significant customer growth and at the same time maintained the reliability of our networks. We expanded our wireless broadband capabilities, extending high-speed EVDO coverage by about 50 million pops and also began our EVDO Rev A deployment, which we will continue throughout 2007.  

We introduced new and innovative products and services including VCAST Music and VZ Navigator; business applications like Global Email and Field Force Manager; and our innovative partnership with YouTube and Revver added to our best in class VCAST video-on-demand. In the next few months we will roll out VCAST mobile TV.  

Another big differentiator for Verizon Wireless is the quality of our customer base. We are the industry leader in terms of total number of retail customers. These are the customers who choose Verizon branded service. Through our direct relationships with these customers, the most reliable network, product innovation and excellent customer service, we not only maintained our customer loyalty but actually improved upon our leadership position.  

2006 marked another year in which Verizon Wireless gained market share and delivered industry-leading financial results, extending our overall leadership in the industry. Our financial results for the fourth quarter as shown on Slide 7 continue to reflect the strength of our business model. Quarterly revenues surpassed the $10 billion mark in the fourth quarter and were up strongly both sequentially and year over year. For the year, Wireless revenues grew to just over $38 billion, an impressive 17.8% growth. The quality of our customer base, as I mentioned earlier, along with our efficient cost structure, drove margin performance once again.  

EBITDA for the quarter grew 8% year over year and nearly 20% for the full year. Full-year EBITDA, which totaled $14.5 billion, had a higher growth rate than revenues. EBITDA margins were 43.2% in the fourth quarter and 44.3% for the year, representing a 110 basis point margin expansion over full year 2005.  

Once again, our strong growth in service revenues was driven by increased data usage and significant customer growth. Fourth-quarter service ARPU of $50.12 increased 1.5% year over year, by far our highest quarterly growth rate this year. As you would expect, this is primarily related to our retail customer base. Data revenues accounted for nearly 16% of service revenue and represented $1.4 billion of revenue in the quarter. Data made up $7.91 of total service ARPU, up substantially year-over-year and $0.75 sequentially.  

We had an outstanding quarter of quality customer growth with 2.3 million net adds. More than 2.2 million of these net adds were retail customers and even more significantly 2.1 million of these were post-paid customers. In fact, we have seen strong sequential growth in retail net adds for each of the last three quarters, driven almost entirely by new post-paid customers. For the year, our retail base increased by 7.8 million net new customers, a 15.9% increase over 2005. We now have 56.8 million retail customers.  

And customer loyalty remains very strong. Quarterly churn rates improved both sequentially and year over year. In the fourth quarter, total churn was 1.14% and retail post-paid churn was 0.89%.  

Wireless Data Services are continuing to grow as you see on Slide 10. 34 million or 60% of our retail customers are now data users, up from 49% one year ago. Data revenues in 2006 doubled compared with last year and now total $4.5 billion. Data is not only an increasing component of total revenues, it also drove about half of the total service revenue growth in 2006.  

Approximately 35% of data revenue comes from business-focused applications. Revenues from our Internet access and e-mail products increased 120% year over year. And more than 50% of our data revenue growth comes from services other than messaging, primarily EVDO-based.  

Looking at our priorities in Wireless for 2007, we will continue to focus on our network's superiority and expand our wireless broadband capabilities. EVDO Rev A will continue to be rolled out this year and we expect to have significant coverage in all major markets in 2007. We will continue to innovate.  

As we announced earlier this month, we will roll out VCAST Mobile TV service by the end of the first quarter in partnership with QUALCOMM. We will also continue our focus on adding retail customers. Finally, we are confident that we will continue to gain market share post industry-leading financial performance and sustain our growth leadership position in the industry.  

Let's now turn to our Wireline segment. As you know, our goal is to transform the telecom franchise into a broadband business and we made significant progress in expanding our broadband capabilities in 2006. As I mentioned earlier, we doubled the amount of homes passed with fiber. We also doubled the number of data homes open for sale. On the video side we increased the number of homes open for sale from about 110,000 at the beginning of the year to about 2.4 million by the end of December. In Verizon business, we expanded our global IP capabilities, which gave us a particularly strong position in the high end of the enterprise market and enabled growth in strategic services, such as IP, Ethernet, and managed services.  

As we expanded our broadband and business capabilities we also focused on reducing costs and improving our competitive cost structure. For example, in 2006, the Wireline segment reduced headcount by about 9200 people. Wireline financial results, as shown on Slide 13, came in as I expected. Revenues have continued to show steady improvement as year-over-year rate of decline has decreased each quarter. Fourth-quarter revenues declined 3.5%, a significant improvement from the 6.8% year-over-year decline in the first quarter. This improvement is primarily due to data revenue growth. Data revenues grew 9.5% in the fourth quarter. Data now represents nearly one-third of our total Wireline revenue stream.  

Fourth-quarter operating income margins of 8.9% were flat compared with last year and showed a modest 10 basis point sequential increase driven by strong cost controls in the quarter. These results included FiOS earnings dilution of $0.10 per share in the fourth quarter and $0.32 for the full year. Let's take a more detailed look at some of the revenue categories.  

We are seeing some encouraging signs as the rate of decline in consumer retail revenues have decreased steadily since the first quarter, as our broadband products have become a more significant portion of this revenue category, about 14% this quarter. Also encouraging is the fact that consumer ARPU of more than $53 grew 1% sequentially and nearly 4% year over year, providing evidence that our broadband initiatives are expanding our relationships with customers.  

Within the regional small and medium business market, revenues for the quarter were down about $16 million or 1.2%. On a full-year basis, this revenue category totaled $5.2 billion and showed modest growth of about 0.2%. As in the consumer market, data is becoming a more significant portion of this revenue stream. Small and medium Business data revenues grew more than 30% in 2006 and are approaching 10% of this revenue category.  

Finally, wholesale revenues, which include special access, switched access and local wholesale, declined 3.1% in the quarter. This is due to the expected decline of UNE-P's and also some intrastate switched access rate reductions. Again, the data portion of this revenue category, primarily special access, is continuing to grow, up nearly 6% in the fourth quarter.  

Now let's look at some subscriber metrics starting on Slide 15. The three line items within consumer retail represent our strategic focus. As you can see in the fourth quarter, we added 142,000 more net broadband and video customers than the decline in primary lines. This is an improvement over the third quarter when we added 120,000 more primary consumer units. On a consumer RGU basis, which includes additional lines, we are up slightly on both a sequential and year-over-year basis. More importantly, the consumer revenue improvement was much greater. Our FiOS subscriber metrics continued to show steady growth in the fourth quarter. We also saw continued growth in FiOS Internet in the fourth quarter. We added 165,000 net new FiOS Internet subscribers averaging more than 12,000 per week. For the full year, we added 517,000 net subscribers. We now have 687,000 FiOS Internet subs representing 14% penetration of homes open for sale. Combined with DSL, we have 7 million total broadband customers, up 1.8 million from a year ago.  

We ended the year with 207,000 FiOS TV subscribers. With 89,000 net adds in the quarter. This is an average of 6800 net new subscribers per week. We ended the year with 2.4 million homes open for sale with an increase of 1.2 million in the fourth quarter alone. As you know, we made a significant number of homes open for sale in late December in New Jersey after receiving a state-wide franchise during the quarter. Almost half of the 1.2 million homes opened for sale in the fourth quarter came online in the last two weeks of December. So even with this late in the year increase in homes open for sale, we achieved 9% penetration in our first full year of offering video. We are seeing that six out of every 10 FiOS TV orders are also requesting FiOS Internet to be installed at the same time.  

In Verizon Business, which serves global enterprise and government customers, we continue to see improvements on the demand side. We are seeing volume growth and increasing demand for bandwidth, especially in the premier enterprise customer segment. This helped drive a 27% increase in strategic services revenue in the fourth quarter and helped restore total business year-over-year revenue growth. Revenues totaled $5.3 billion in the quarter, up 2.7% year over year with higher sequential growth in each of the last three quarters. We believe this is a meaningful turnaround in the business.  

For the year, Verizon Business generated more than $20.6 billion in revenue. Strategic services exceeded $4.1 billion in 2006 and now represents 20% of total Verizon Business revenue.  

Our integration efforts have also been successful. From an operational perspective, the integration of MCI generated $600 million in synergy savings in 2006, which is slightly ahead of our targeted $550 million in year one. We are increasing our 2007 synergy target from $825 million to $900 million. Many of the incremental savings we expect in 2007 are from systems integration projects that are well underway.  

Another area we will focus on in 2007 will be reducing access costs. Verizon business continues to have lots of opportunities to grow market share and increase efficiency. Our Wireline priorities in 2007 focus on three key areas. First, continued focused investments in our strategic activities. In Telcom, that means continuing to expand broadband capabilities. In Verizon Business, it will involve the rollout of next-generation global IP services.  

Second, drive top-line organic growth. For example, we believe that telecom can break into the top 10 MSO video provider rankings in 2007. We believe general business trends will put service providers in a good position for growth in 2007. We expect Verizon Business to continue to gain share, particularly in strategic services.  

Third, improve profitability. Across the Wireline segment we will also continue to look for ways to reduce costs and improve our cost structure. As I previously guided we expect FiOS earnings dilution to be at its peak in the fourth quarter of 2006 through the first quarter of 2007. Dilution should be about $0.11 in the first quarter of this year.  

Let me summarize as follows. We had a strong 2006, both operationally and financially. We gained market share and expanded customer relationships. Our organic growth initiatives are gaining momentum and have created the foundation for sustainable long-term growth. As far as our financial outlook, as we have said many times, we believe our networks are and will continue to be a strategic differentiator. We plan to invest between $17.5 and $17.9 billion in those networks in 2007.  

On the Wireline side, we expect total CapEx of $10.7 to $10.9 billion. This includes some additional capital to reduce access costs going forward and additional success based investments related to FiOS and growth in private IP, Web hosting and new product development.  

Integration capital is expected to be higher in 2007 versus 2006 but we're still within our original guidance of $1.6 to $1.9 billion over three years. In Verizon Wireless, we expect spending to be between $6.6 and $6.8 billion, as we continue to add capacity and enhance our broadband capabilities.  

We will also continue to increase our financial flexibility and create value for our shareowners in 2007. We recently announced the spinoff and merger of access lines in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont with Fairpoint Communications. We are nearing the completion of the Puerto Rico telephone company sale. And as I said, we plan to continue our share buyback program at similar levels to what we did in 2006.  

With that, I will turn it back to Ron so we can get to your questions.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Doreen. Operator, Ivan, Denny, and Doreen are now available to take questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). John Hodulik, UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a couple questions -- first I guess for Doreen. We appreciate the guidance you gave for '07. Is it possible for you guys to give us a little bit more direction from an earnings standpoint or maybe even more as it relates to FiOS metrics? Secondly, for Doreen, I thought the consumer ARPU strength was nice and a little bit surprising -- a little bit better than we thought. Can you give some more trends going forward, where we go from the 4% as you guys expand the reach of FiOS? And then for Ivan, the -- I thought the Fairpoint spin was well-received and the price is good. Is that the kind of structure we can expect going forward as you have looked at some of the other line sales? And then actually last -- sorry to keep going like this but while we have got Denny on the line, can you give us an initial look on what your first priorities are as you start to oversee the Wireline business?  

DOREEN TOBEN: John, I will start. If I start with the ARPU one first, I think what you saw was almost 4% ARPU growth in the quarter. What I would tell you is December accelerated so it was even higher than the quarterly average. We expect to see it increase significantly even next year. It's really a mix between price-ups that we've been doing both in December as we roll into '07 as well as the fact -- the product mix, the data and the video has really made a big difference. I think I have used before with you anecdotally we are seeing at least one state now at sort of a 15% ARPU increase. So we're certainly encouraged in where we are seeing the ARPU.  

JOHN HODULIK: So it seems that the consumer business should grow nicely next year as you continue to see that accelerate.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think what you'll see is the trends from this year will certainly improve next year. And if I talk you through the guidance, if you start FiOS sort of with the $2.06, which was the recurring number, I would say if you think about -- there's still about $0.05 in "CANTV" that's in there, not in discontinued ops. You should think about there is $10 billion -- a little bit more than $10 billion in cash that we would earn interest on from all the deals that we did. You should think pension and OPEB is relatively flat. Pension is really a help but the discount rate -- did move the discount rate from 5.75% to 6% so you think pension and OPEB is relatively flat; kept the ROA the same so no change there at 8.5%. I think when you come down to it, I would say we had 10% operating income growth this year. I would say that we would have at least a 10% op income growth next year.  

DENNY STRIGL, PRESIDENT AND COO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: John, this is Denny. On the FiOS dilution, we are expecting about $0.11 in the first quarter of this year. And given the take rate experience that we had in the fourth quarter, we could see dilution for the year in the mid-$0.30 range. Of course, our view is that success based dilution is good news in the long run.  

But, I would like all to understand that we are making some very good progress in reducing labor time in the home. We really do understand the key drivers. For example, we are deploying time-saving technologies -- MoCA for example. We are using software tools to help quickly configure PCs and TVs. We are also increasing productivity by doing more actually before the tech gets into the home. And I guess bottom-line on the FiOS dilution is we would like you to know that we are focused on eliminating unnecessary wasted time inside the home and in preparing the home from the outside. So our outlook for cost to pass and connect has not changed and we're making some very good progress.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: On the Fairpoint transaction, just a couple of comments. We do like the transaction. We like the structure, we like the buyer. I would say this. This is the way we would like you to think about all these access line transactions.  

This was a unique one. Whole states, a good buyer, solid operator, something that when you look at the long term, there's no dispute that these three states are more rural than they are anything else. We think that Fairpoint offers a way for these assets to be repositioned and continue to participate in the growth of the industry as they would manage rural assets.  

As far as your question about other structures, yes, we like the Morris Trust. We also like to take a step back now and absorb everything that we've done. So we like to get this Fairpoint thing a little further along, complete the other transactions we have, and keep an open eye, but we're not in any rush to make any other moves unless there is something really unique that makes a lot of sense for shareholders.  

DENNY STRIGL: And John on your question on priorities -- and let me back up a second here and just say that the organizational changes that were made in December were the result of Ivan, Larry Babbio and I talking about these changes for several months. And our feeling was that the time was right. Verizon Wireless of course in great shape. The transformation of the Telco to broadband well underway, and our Verizon business integration successful in '06, and we feel very good about that in '07. So to your question, the priority or the goals for this year are to increase our focus on growth -- organic growth of course, in particular; to increase our rate of growth, that is increasing product innovation and speed to market; and also of course to enhance customer service; and to continue to improve our cost structure throughout 2007. This is not only the priorities that I have but this is shared by each of the individuals who run our groups -- Telecom, Wireless, Business; and also Verizon Services we think will give us a great advantage this year in realizing economies of scale and helping us improve our cost structure.  

Another focus with our new organization is for introducing services and bundled announcements that leverage our assets across all of our groups. And in fact, you'll see tomorrow that we will make the first of many announcements in which we will bundle wireless into our consumer plans. So, stay tuned for that tomorrow.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, John. Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: David Barden, Banc of America.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: I will try to keep to two. The first would be just on the Business side. Obviously, some strong growth in the enterprise. If you could kind of talk about the forces at work there, you know the mix of point-of-sale pricing versus technology price-downs versus contract repricings, and how that trend looks into 2007. And you know, in this fourth-quarter number, what if anything in there is CPE type of sales?  

And then the second question, maybe just Denny, kind of maybe drawing on some of your experience. Obviously very strong growth this year in Wireless, especially in the fourth quarter. Some competitors are kind of grappling with some internal questions. They are going to try to get back on their feet by the second half of the year focusing on handsets. Cingular is going to be trying to bring their iPhone product to the market. Again, another kind of marquis handset. If there has been one criticism for Verizon, not that you have seen it in the numbers but it has been that the handset mix has been moderate relative to competitors'. As this becomes a new focus, what is Verizon Wireless's game plan for staying strong in the second half of '07 as the wireless competitors try to bring new stuff to market? Thanks.  

DENNY STRIGL: David, a wide range of questions. Let me start with the -- on the Business side. In pricing, we have experienced some moderate stabilization in 2006, particularly in our legacy products. We have sales of our next generation services, such as Private IP, are doing very well. And we're seeing increased response from our competitors in that regard. But our focus continues to be on profitable revenue growth. CPE, our focus this year is more as CPE being an add-on to what we sell.  

On the revenue growth outlook for Business, the trends are good and we saw sequential revenue growth as you heard from Doreen throughout 2006. We're looking forward to overall business market trends that put us into a good position for growth in '07.  

We expect continued year-over-year total Verizon Business revenue growth and particularly focusing on IT and professional services that we are able to bring to the marketplace.  

On the wireless question, let me start with the iPhone. It's probably the most popular question these days. And if you all have seen the USA Today article that Leslie Cauley wrote, our take is that she was right on. The iPhone market -- the iPhone product is something where quite frankly we're happy that we are not first to market with the iPhone and we think that innovation and a focus on music will benefit the whole industry. It really does draw attention to our data capabilities, and you heard from Doreen that that's a very strong market for us. But bottom line on the iPhone, I think many are interested in comparing a future offering. With what we have in the marketplace today, it's like comparing apples and oranges. I will tell you that we will stay competitive and more on that as the year rolls out.  

Looking at the product line that we have, particularly the handset lineup, we're very confident with our strategic partners. And we've had a lot of good product from all three of our major suppliers and there too, more on that as the year rolls out.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, David. Operator, next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, CIBC.  

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: One clarification and one question. Doreen, does the CapEx guidance include set-top box CapEx?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes, Tim.  

TIM HORAN: Great. And then on the wireless side, Denny. You had a really strong quarter here. It seems like some of your competitors are kind of injured out there. Would your preference be to kind of go out and continue to gain market share and maybe keep margins kind of flattish, where they are at now, or do you think you can kind of continue to expand margins at the rate that we have seen over the last couple of years going forward?  

DENNY STRIGL: Well, our margin outlook continues, Tim, to be the same. We expect margins in the 43% to 45% range. So, no change from the previous guidance that you have had from us.  

In terms of perhaps slowing down growth, if that was your indication there, we have no intentions of slowing down growth. Our goal is to continue to take share as we have quarter after quarter. And, we will do that by also focusing on profitability. We have done both quarter after quarter -- grown the base and been profitable in the 43% to 45% range.  

TIM HORAN: Thank you.  

DENNY STRIGL: I might also, just an add-on to that, Tim, we're pleased with the local number portability results that we've had, and we take in two customers for every one that we hand over to our competitors. So good result there.  

TIM HORAN: Have you seen any slowdown in that metric?  

DENNY STRIGL: We have not. It has been essentially the same.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Tim. Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: A couple of FiOS questions. First, on FiOS TV, you currently cover about 40% of the homes you've built past. That's starting to accelerate. How should we think about that for '07 as you go to the sort of 9 million homes passed? Are you going to be able to keep that 40%, grow it to 50% or 60%?  

And secondly, in the past you have given us penetration numbers for markets that have been open six, nine months or whatever. Can you give us a feel for where we are in place places like Keller, where you've really been able to have a good sort of time in the marketplace with the product? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Simon, it is Doreen. I will start with the first part. Keller is -- I'm looking around to see if I should give the number. Texas is probably well over 20%, 22% 25% -- Texas all by itself. Keller is very, very high. We stopped giving the six, nine and 12 because we are giving you in total and because we have so many different CO's, it starts to roll into that. So we thought by giving you the total penetration it was probably more effective.  

Off the top of my head I actually don't know the first part of the question on '07.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I can help maybe, but maybe, Simon, we don't understand the frame of the question. We're going to do another 3 million, about; that's what we've said.  

SIMON FLANNERY: You will do 3 million TV homes?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: We'll do -- no -- homes passed, we'll do.  

SIMON FLANNERY: I guess it's the open for marketing in TV. Should we be thinking that you will be -- at the end of this year you will be at 5 million open for market on TV?  

DOREEN TOBEN: That's the relatively -- about that number is a good number, Simon.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: We will clarify that over the course of the first quarter, give you a little bit better information, but you're not that far off.  

DENNY STRIGL: But Simon, if I may, first of all on looking at last year, our -- we feel very good about the FiOS data adds that we had. Video actually was over our goal and as Doreen had mentioned in her comments, penetration increased in the fourth quarter to 14%. So we feel very good about our goals and growth opportunity in '07.  

Everybody loves the service -- the speed, the service quality, the reliability. And as you may know in a recent Consumer Reports review, we blew away the competition. So our view is that the market is ready for the upgrade that we can provide.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Bear Stearns.  

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Just a quick comment if you would on Wireline margins. We obviously can sort of quantify the impact on the quarter from FiOS and MCI. But maybe just a comment on seasonality and what impact that might have had on the Wireline margin. Because it really held it pretty well and I'm just trying to see if there's still an impact there.  

Secondly, maybe it's a combined question here but, on data, data was I think across the industry so far a little bit weak. So maybe some trends you're seeing in the DSL marketplace? FiOS ads were good but you missed your target there. Are we seeing just a sort of an aging of the base you are selling into? And then, connected to that, the access line losses, the rate of decline actually worsened, but the rate of worsening actually is the best we've seen in several quarters. So maybe just some comments on the cable competitiveness.  

DENNY STRIGL: First of all, we didn't miss any targets on FiOS. We feel very good about the FiOS number. But okay, let me come back to margin outlook. We expect Wireline margins to stabilize -- certainly not to get worse. We could see some -- I will call it lumpiness from quarter to quarter. But overall, we see improvement in late '07 and into 2008.  

If I can break down just the two Wireline pieces, in telecom, we see continued success in our FiOS rollout. Operating expense savings we expect to see as FiOS gains some scale. Continued ARPU growth. And as I mentioned earlier, incidentally we are very focused on elimination of time in the home to improve our overall metrics on FiOS.  

On the Business side we are achieving the merger synergies, improving our cost structure and frankly we are gaining market share. So feel quite good about how we are positioned for 2007.  

DOREEN TOBEN: If I can go back just a second on Wireline margins, there was perhaps some seasonality in the fourth Q. Or maybe I would suggest as you think about '07 and you think about on the Verizon Business side, each quarter with their synergies, their margin improved. As well as the fact that the FiOS solution is the worst in the beginning of the year. You might see -- Denny called it lumpiness but you may see the Wireline margin stabilize but sort of ramp up as opposed to flat across the whole year.  

DENNY STRIGL: And Mike, on the access line outlook, our goal is less overall line loss in '07 than we saw in 2006. FiOS will of course increasingly help, particularly in the second half of the year as we gain some scale with FiOS. But I will tell you that we also have a significant focus on retention of access lines in '07.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Just on the competitive piece, as you would expect, the competitors that have been in market for a long time are probably flat to down and perhaps the ones that are newer in an area are up. But I would say actually overall, the VoIP adds appear to be relatively flat Q to Q.  

MIKE MCCORMACK: I know you guys are not really focused I guess on the cost per home number specifically but can you give us your sense for how close you are to what the year-end goals were?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think what I said was we'd certainly -- we beat in both cases what we told you, so we were much better. And then, the other thing I would tell you is we're probably not going to give this to you every quarter. We gave you the five year number. We're not that far off if you look at homes for -- from passed to what we told you the five-year number was -- and connected. And considering we beat both of them you know what the five-year target is, I probably am not going to give you the absolute number of Q to Q now.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Chris Larsen, Credit Suisse.  

CHRIS LARSEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: First question, the incremental capital spend, it looks a little bit higher, particularly in Wireline. Is that -- can you give us a sense where that mix shift is? And is that more a function of incremental set-top boxes as you are going to add about three times the number of subs this year?  

And then secondly, on the FiOS solution, Denny, how do you think about balancing growth versus the dilution? If you go back to the wireless days, it was just grow us quick and get as much market share as possible. And if we look at what's going on in video, this may be the opportunity to grab that share as people are making the transition to high-definition and the flat-panel TVs; and this could be your one opportunity to hurry up and get in there as people decide what new TV to get in the home.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'm going to start on the capital side, Chris. If you think about the increase, it's probably in a couple different places. One, yes, it's much more success based so you see it in the set-top box and the cost to connect. However, there is also a substantial piece of it on what I would call the Business side of it. We've done real well in Web hosting. That seems to be expanding so we're going to grow Web hosting. We do some things perhaps in international, as well as we talked about the fact -- we didn't spend as much as I would have anticipated in integration capital this year, on trying to get access charges down, doing some more co-locations, doing some more grooming, doing some more putting buildings on net. So we're going to see that number kick up as well. So it's sort of a mix of the two different areas.  

DENNY STRIGL: Chris, on the FiOS growth, your comment was right on. Yes, we see that we have a window of opportunity with a superior product to what our competitors have. So, our goal is to be very aggressive in FiOS, particularly on the video side.  

I will also tell you though that as in wireless, we have learned some lessons there of course. We're focused not only on growing FiOS but also on controlling our costs and margin improvement. So, that's the story, what we've done in wireless. We certainly will -- our goal is to do the same with our FiOS new product offering.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Lehman Brothers.  

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: A couple quick ones. Can you talk about debt levels and I guess I'm particularly interested in Verizon Wireless. By our estimates, there essentially won't be any net debt at the end of this year, and I'm wondering what sort of arrangement you have with Vodafone regarding the uses of free cash flow. Are you going to have to lever back up? And then, secondly, small business was stronger than we were looking for. I was wondering are you engaged in win-back campaigns now as Cablevision's entrants matures in your markets? Or is that just more of a macro environment trend? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Starting at the debt level, I think -- I would suggest you are probably a year off maybe on when the debt goes perhaps to zero.  

I'm not quite sure what is happening with Spectrum. When the 700 [auction] comes up -- if we participate in the 700 auction. But when it does get to a zero, it would be sort of at our discretion to put forth what kind of a dividend policy we wanted to have. I think that's more of an '08 discussion than an '07 discussion, Tom.  

DENNY STRIGL: Tom, let me comment on the small business piece. First I would say that the small business market clearly to us is important. It is a growing market. I'd also say that competition is not at all new in the small business space. So we're focused on retention. We're focused on win-backs.  

And I will tell you that I think we are in a good position. Our key differentiator is our reliability and our quality. We have a dedicated sales force of some 4000 people. And, I would also tell you that the MCI merger has helped us in this regard because it gives us a strong agent channel that comes from the merger. So we're very focused in small business.  

DOREEN TOBEN: And just Tom, while it's clear, in '08 on the dividend, it's an '08 discussion for probably an '09 implementation.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Qaisar Hasan, Buckingham Research.  

QAISAR HASAN, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: I had a couple of quick questions. One, just on consumer rate increases. We understand you recently raised prices on your freedom plans by about $5. Could you just elaborate a little bit on that whether it impacts just new customers, existing customers?  

Also, seems to be a slight change in your strategy versus a couple of years ago where you were actually quite aggressive on your pricing, given cable competition. What has changed in your thinking that is actually allowing you to actually raise prices, not just on voice but also data and video? Secondly, on MCI, based on the numbers that you guys have provided in the past, I think you did about $350 million in synergies in the first three quarters, which implied probably about $250 million in the fourth quarter. Given that run rate, the $900 million in '07 looks a little bit on the light side. Can you just maybe walk through the math over there and where we might be off? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I will start on the pricing. Yes, we did up the price on Freedom across the country -- about $5, we felt, based on the take rates we were getting and the churn that we were able to do that. We've not seen a decrease in the sales because of the increase. We also had an increase in the DSL pricing, especially at the low end. The numbers that we had -- at $14.95, we've seen them move up to $17, $19, and $21 in some states. I think if you compare that to any other offer, any other cable modem offer, we're still at the low end. We've seen very successful take rates and thought that we could do it. The churn has come down significantly.  

We're not playing on the price side at all in the video market. We have been really pleased with our video pricing and our video ARPU. So the churn and everything has really shown us that we've got the ability to have some pricing flexibility here.  

On the MCI synergies, I will take another look at it next year. I probably am always conservative. So what we'll do is we will start with that number and as I work through '07, we will see if we update it as we get into the year.  

QAISAR HASAN: Great. Can you just confirm that the Freedom rate increase was across your existing base and not just on new customers?  

DOREEN TOBEN: It is my understanding, but we might have to get back to you that it was across the base; it was not just on new.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Frank Louthan, Raymond James.  

FRANK LOUTHAN, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Quickly on the data center outlook, give us an idea on what are you seeing in the demand for that or any pricing? And as far as your CapEx expansion on that, are you planning to build entire new data centers or just build out some more? And then, as far as doing the work on trying to keep the install time down on FiOS, maybe a little more color on that. What is the average install time running, relative to what the target is and do you think at some point it might make sense possibly just to run some additional CAT-5 or something like that to try and cut that time down? I know that's not been part of the strategy, but if it's -- would that possibly be an additional part of the strategy going forward given the time constraints you are running up against?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Let's start on the Web hosting. And you meant Web hosting, right, Frank, when you said data center?  

FRANK LOUTHAN: Yes, that's what I meant.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes, we have had incredible demand for Web hosting all year. And so, yes, you'll probably see us do some more build-out to try to meet the demand. It's really been an expanding product segment for us. Yes and it's obviously in the capital numbers increase that we gave you.  

DENNY STRIGL: Frank, on the install time for FiOS, as I had mentioned a little bit earlier, we are deploying some time saving technologies -- MoCA being one of them. We've got a new software tool to help configure the PCs and also the TVs in the home. We do not disclose the number of hours. But rest assured that we're doing everything we can to get that number down and to drive costs out of our installation and we are on the targets that we had established.  

FRANK LOUTHAN: Do you think those processes will be sufficient or it would -- possibly doing some additional wiring as a means just to avoid some of the holdouts of the wiring in the house -- would that be part of the strategy that you would consider down the road?  

DENNY STRIGL: Frank, I will comment that we are looking at all opportunities to cut our costs.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Frank. Operator, I'd like to now turn the call over to Ivan Seidenberg for some concluding remarks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, thank you for your questions. As you can see, we feel comfortable and we're very confident that 2006 turns out to be a very solid year for us. We have accomplished some significant repositioning of lots of assets in the business. We are able to unlock some value and create some substantial financial flexibility going forward for the Company.  

As you can see, we are a simpler, more focused business. All of our groups have momentum, leaving '06 into '07 on the wireless group and the Business group and the Telco group. Also, our Verizon Services group, which is our infrastructure support services group across the business, gained some momentum. And they will certainly help to ameliorate a lot of the growth activities we have by some strong cost management across the Company.  

Business conditions across all three of our groups appear to be gaining some momentum in '07. So we feel comfortable that the market will provide a little bit of a wind at our back in addition to all of the investments that we're been making.  

And frankly, our focus for 2007 is pretty simple. We are intent on achieving higher sustainable growth rates at the same time we're delivering bottom-line performance. The management changes we made are clearly geared to help us accelerate getting bottom-line performance with all of the capital we have deployed over the last several years going forward.  

Many of you would like to know what we're going to do with our cash. We feel we have a great balance sheet. We have done a lot of good things. Doreen mentioned that we will continue the share buyback program that we have now. We're always looking for ways as the year unfolds to further unlock value should the opportunity arise.  

Having said that, we thank you for your participation and we're looking forward to a positive 2007.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, that concludes our call today. Thank you, everybody, for joining us.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | verzw : Verizon Wireless
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070205e31t000ji
  


 HD
 Q3  2006  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,435 words
   PD
30 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon third-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President Investor Relations of Verizon.  

RON LATAILLE, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I am Ron Lataille. With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO, and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer.  

   TD
Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are on the Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained within this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings which are available on our website.  

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on the same web page as our presentation slides.  

Before turning the call over to Doreen for a review of our results, I would like to provide an update on a few items and cover the differences between reported and adjusted earnings.  

First, in mid-October the board approved the proposed spinoff of our domestic directory business to our shareholders. The spinoff will result in a new public company called Idearc which will trade on the New York Stock Exchange following the spinoff under the symbol IAR. A November 1, 2006 record date has been established for the spinoff, along with a distribution ratio of 1 Idearc share for every 20 Verizon shares. Subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, distribution of shares is scheduled to occur on or about November 17.  

As you know, the recently adopted pension accounting pronouncement FAS 158 will be effective December 31, 2006. FAS 158 requires the recognition of the funded status of defined benefit plans as either an asset or a liability on the balance sheet. Based on our current estimates, we expect to decrease shareowners equity by approximately $10 billion post-tax. There is no impact to cash or earnings as a result of the adoption of this change. Additional information on FAS 158 will be included in our third-quarter 10-Q.  

I also want to make sure you are aware of one other item which is included in our equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses line.  

During the third quarter, we recognized an $85 million favorable tax benefit from Vodafone Omnitel. Now, as far as our third-quarter results, reported earnings per diluted share were $0.66. On an adjusted basis before the effects of special items, EPS was $0.68. The special items that make up the difference between reported and adjusted EPS are discussed in our earnings release and provided in reconciliation tables in the investor quarterly bulletin.  

Briefly there are three special items which we are excluding from adjusted results -- $31 million in after-tax charges or $0.01 per share for relocation and other costs related to our move to the Verizon Center, $17 million in after-tax charges related to severance and related pension and benefit costs and $16 million after-tax for merger integration costs. These two items added together represent $0.01 per share, so $0.66 on a GAAP reported basis and $0.68 on an adjusted basis.  

With that, I will now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO & EVP, VERIZON: Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone. Let me start by saying that we had another strong quarter as both wireless and wireline continued to perform well and contributed to our objective of creating long-term growth. Each of our three network platforms are focused on delivering quality growth and creating long-term value. Verizon Wireless continues to grow. Its high-performance, organic growth model demonstrates the long-term benefits of a deep and profitable relationship with our customers.  

In the quarter, revenue growth exceeded 18%. We added 2 million retail customers and also increased service ARPU. Our investments in the wireline business are creating the same foundation for long-term growth. We are building new customer relationships through our broadband initiatives. We now have 522,000 FiOS data customers and 118,000 FiOS video customers. The increase in FiOS data customers drove another excellent quarter for total broadband performance. Between DSL and FiOS data, we generated 448,000 net adds this quarter.  

In the enterprise business market, we continue to see major contract wins and renewals as we expand and deepen our relationships with customers. Revenues from key strategic services like IP and managed services grew 25% and helped drive our second straight quarter of sequential growth.  

Okay. Let's turn to slide four and look at some of the details. Total revenues were up 25.8% versus the year ago quarter. A comparison that is favorably affected by the inclusion of MCI this year. Throughout the rest of this discussion when I refer to year-over-year comparisons, they will be on a pro forma basis unless otherwise noted.  

Consolidated revenue growth was 3.6% year-over-year and 2.5% sequentially. Revenue increases were once again driven by growth in wireless, broadband and enterprise data services. Operating income increased 6.6%, and operating income margins increased 50 basis points year-over-year. As a reminder, these results include the effect of net pensions and OPEB which amounted to $332 million in the third quarter and slightly higher than last year. Also remember that we do not exclude the effects of amortization of intangibles from our adjusted results.  

The amount of amortization expense related to the acquisition of MCI is about $210 million annually and is $53 million this quarter. Our adjusted EPS for the quarter was $0.68 per share.  

Looking at our cash flows and balance sheet, we continue to have very strong cash generation. On a year-to-date basis, CFFO for our continuing operations totaled $17.9 billion, $2.9 billion higher than the same period last year. Year-to-date capital spending was $12.3 billion, of which $7.3 billion is wireline and $4.8 billion is wireless.  

We continue to maintain out stated guidance for full-year CapEx spending. Debt was $41.7 billion at September 30, and all our credit metrics remain strong.  

Let's turn now to the wireline financials on slide six. Revenues were up sequentially for the second quarter in a row and continue to show steady improvement year-over-year. On a year-over-year basis, third-quarter revenues were down 4.7%, which is better than the 6.2% decline in the second quarter and the 6.8% decline in the first quarter. So we are definitely seeing an improvement in the topline.  

In addition to our focus on improving the topline, we are equally focused on the expense side. Third-quarter cash expenses declined 1.3% year-over-year. Excluding FiOS, cash expenses decreased by $350 million or 3.8% year-over-year. Our goal is to offset FiOS expenses with reductions in the core business. You can see from our results that wireline margins were sequentially lower in the third quarter, primarily due to access line losses and increased FiOS dilution.  

FiOS represented $0.09 of total earnings dilution this quarter, up $0.02 from the second quarter. This incremental dilution was driven by strong customer growth and higher video costs. At this point we expect full-year FiOS earnings dilution to be about $0.31 to $0.32 per share, which is about $0.02 higher than our previous guidance. As a result, we are expecting fourth-quarter wireline margins to reflect these changes.  

In addition to our continued focus on reducing costs in the traditional telecom business, we will also see increasing flowthrough of cost savings in the large enterprise market. While only nine months into our integration of MCI, we are on track with our plan and are already seeing significant operational benefits. When we complete the billing and other system conversions, we will see additional cost synergies.  

Going forward, we continue to see significant opportunities for wireline cost savings.  

A big driver of the underlying revenue growth comes from data. This data transformation is improving our revenue mix and creating higher value, more retentive customers, both residential and business. Data is becoming more significant and now represents 32% of total wireline revenues. Quarterly data revenues totaled $4.1 billion, up 6.3% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.  

Within telecom, data growth is driven by the strong demand for broadband in the consumer and small-business markets, as well as continued healthy demand for high-speed, high-capacity services in the wholesale market. Total mass-market broadband subscribers now total 6.6 million with more than 6 million DSL customers and 522,000 FiOS data subs. In Verizon Business, quarterly data revenues totaled $2.6 billion, $1.1 billion of which comprises what we call strategic services. These revenues, which include Internet, IP, private IP, various managed services such as network solutions and ethernet and ring services, grew nearly 25% since last year and are up 5% sequentially.  

The next chart is a closer look at telecom revenues. The most encouraging news here is that consumer retail revenues, excluding mass-market MCI increased sequentially for the first time since the second quarter of last year due primarily to broadband growth. On a year-over-year basis, third-quarter revenues were down 3.3%, which is an improvement from the 4% decline in the second quarter.  

Also encouraging is the fact that average revenue per household per month has increased more than 2% sequentially and year-over-year, providing evidence that our broadband initiatives are expanding our relationship with customers. Revenues from the former MCI mass-market business were $637 million and declined $204 million or 24.4% year on year. The important takeaway here is that growth is improving in the key areas of focus, namely data and broadband.  

Let's look at some customer metrics. In residential retail, let's start with our 23 million primary voice lines which are down 419,000 sequentially. Primary voice lines are generally impacted more by competition from either wireless, cable telephony or some IP substitute service. As you know, our competitive response has been to push our broadband products, both DSL and FiOS data bundled in with our voice services and in certain markets combine that with a FiOS TV offer.  

And I would say we're doing fairly well. During the third quarter, we added 120,000 more net broadband and video customers than the decline in primary lines. In addition, we have many more customers on voice packages. The number of freedom customers has increased by about 2.5 million in the past year. We now have about 7.5 million in total. On a consumer RGU basis, which includes additional or secondary lines, we were up about 1% versus last year and essentially flat sequentially. We tend to view additional or secondary line losses being driven more by secular change and technology substitutions than competition. In fact, our own broadband initiatives are influencing customers to disconnect their additional lines. Our bundling and broadband initiatives are starting to take hold. We believe that this expanded customer relationship will improve revenue per household and increase customer loyalty, thereby improving retention.  

Total access lines were down 7.5% compared with a year ago and were 977,000 lower on a sequential quarterly basis. One-third of the total lines lost in the quarter were a combination of wholesale lines and former MCI mass-market customers 'in-region'.  

We will spend the next few minutes on FiOS. About a month ago we conducted a FiOS briefing session in which we talked about our revenue opportunities, the network transformation, the customer experience and the business plan assumptions and economics. Hopefully one of your takeaways from that session was our enthusiasm in the progress to date and our confidence in the plan assumptions and outlook. Our quarterly results demonstrate the steady progress we are making and validation of our confidence.  

As I mentioned earlier, we had 522,000 FiOS data customers at the end of the quarter. Third-quarter net adds were 147,000 compared with 111,000 in the second quarter. We had 3.8 million homes open for sale. Our subscriber penetration rate was 14%. You can see from the ramp in our customer additions that we are gaining market share in a growing broadband market.  

Our FiOS video customer total was 118,000 at the end of the quarter. Here quarterly net adds were 63,000 compared with 35,000 last quarter. With 1.2 million homes open for sale, we currently have a 10% subscriber penetration rate. As we indicated, customer acceptance in video is ahead of plan and the fact that we have many new and innovative features just around the corner bodes well for us, and we continue to differentiate our video service.  

Lastly, our churn in FiOS customers this quarter remains under 1.5% per month. Our full-year targets of 725,000 FiOS data customers and 175,000 FiOS video customers remains the same.  

A quick update where we are with the capital costs to past and connect premises. Starting with the cost to pass, again we are pleased with our progress to date. We have moved average costs down from $1,400 per home to $845 as of the end of September. That is a 40% decline in less then two years. On the capital cost to connect, we have moved costs down steadily as we have gained experience and expect this will continue. Capital cost per premises connected was $900 in September, down 25% this year, and we feel good about our $880 target by the end of the year. Beyond next quarter, we believe that GPON and other technologies will help us to further reduce capital spending per home and expect to see greater improvements as we move through the year.  

From a deployment standpoint, we had passed 5.3 million premises through the end of September, and we should have no problem meeting our goal of 6 million cumulative by the end of December.  

In Verizon Business we are focused on sequential revenue improvement. Revenues were up once again on a sequential basis, increasing by 1.7%. In enterprise business, the sequential growth of 3% this quarter is an improvement over the 1% sequential growth last quarter. Continued traction in our strategic services revenues is driving the sequential growth.  

I talked about this earlier in the context of wireline data revenues. We are seeing growth in Internet, private IP, ethernet and ring services. We are also seeing some improvement in core services trends. Data services like ATM, frame and private line were up slightly. Voice services were essentially flat.  

In addition, we saw strong government project revenues and some improvements in CPE sales. We are optimistic that we will continue to see steady improvement in both enterprise and total revenues and expect to see year-over-year growth in total business revenues within the next two quarters.  

Broadly speaking, considering all aspects of combining the two companies, we would say that the integration efforts after only nine months have been a great success. We are definitely seeing operational benefits. Salesforce and product integration, marketing efforts and customer relationship work have all gone very well.  

As far as synergies go, we realized about $150 million in incremental synergies during the quarter, bringing our year-to-date total to around $350 million. Most of these savings are driven by headcount reductions, sourcing savings, network optimizations and traffic migration.  

We also have a number of systems integration projects underway that will result in additional cost savings in 2007 and beyond. We are currently on track to meet our synergy target for the year of $550 million. So good progress at Verizon Business.  

Let's turn now to wireless. Verizon Wireless continues to deliver outstanding, industry-leading financial results and performance metrics. Total quarterly revenues, which are now just shy of $10 billion, grew 18.2% year-over-year. Sequentially revenues were up $607 million or 6.6%. Verizon Wireless has the highest total revenues in the industry, as well as the highest growth rate. Notably this growth was once again accompanied by the industry's best margins. EBITDA grew to $3.8 billion, a sequential improvement of 6.8%. The quarterly EBITDA margin was 45%, up from 41.5% a year ago and 44.4% in the second quarter. Our margin performance is driven by the quality of our customer base and our efficient cost structure.  

Strong growth in service revenues was again driven by increased data usage and significant customer growth. Total service ARPU of $50.59 increased almost 2% sequentially and nearly 1% year-over-year. Not surprisingly, this is entirely retail-related. Data revenues accounted for more than 14% of service revenue and represented $1.2 billion of revenue in the quarter. Data made up $7.16 of total service ARPU, up substantially year-over-year and $0.76 sequentially.  

We had an outstanding quarter of customer growth. Our retail customer growth is far and away the best in the industry. We added 2 million net new retail customers during the quarter, extending our industry lead and having the most retail customers. These are customers that choose Verizon branded service from our direct and indirect channels. Total net adds were 1.9 million as reseller churn resulted in a net negative of about 70,000 customers. This marks the ninth consecutive quarter in which we added more than 1.5 million net retail customers.  

Our 54.6 million retail customers represent more than 96% of our total customer base of 56.7 million. Retail postpaid customers represent nearly 93% of our base. This quarter 88% of all retail gross ads were postpaid. This was higher sequentially, although lower than last year.  

Retail continues to be our focus. That is because we serve and manage these customers directly. These are high-quality customers in terms of loyalty and lifetime revenue. They also tend to have the highest margins.  

We continue to outperform the industry when it comes to customer loyalty. Total customer churn was 1.24%, retail churn was 1.15% and retail postpaid churn was .95%. All three of these churn rates are lower than the third quarter last year. The slight sequential increases in each are in line with previous seasonal trends.  

Retail gross adds in the quarter were almost 6% higher than a year ago and sequentially better by more than 10%. This performance is particularly impressive considering some of the predictions last year when we decided not to continue our RadioShack relationship. Retail gross adds from direct channel grew even faster, up 9.1% year-over-year. Importantly, these direct channels produced 74% of our retail postpaid gross adds this quarter. This is a key metric for us and one that we track very closely. This is because we know that customers buying through our direct channels have higher ARPU and lower churn. We also continue to expand and diversify our indirect distribution channel, which includes local and national outlets like Best Buy, Costco and Wal-Mart. Taking advantage of new retail channels and models, both direct and with our indirect partners, has helped us maintain a high-quality base and been an important factor in developing our industry-leading efficiency and profitability.  

As I have said many times, the key to our success in wireless data is our commitment to investing in our premier network. Nearly 31 million, or about 57% of our retail customers, are data users, up significantly from just one year ago. To date 13.7 million or more than 25% of our retail customers have EVDO capable devices. Moreover, data revenues from business applications such as BroadbandAccess and email have increased 135% in just one year. More than one-third of our data revenues come from business focused applications. We have three times more BroadbandAccess subscribers than one year ago and more than 55% of our data revenue growth comes from services other than messaging, primarily EVDO- based. We have an industry-leading portfolio of EVDO capable devices, and we're taking advantage of exclusive periods on such devices as the Motorola Q, the LG Chocolate and the Samsung i830. In spite of these impressive data growth numbers, we are really just at the beginning of the wireless broadband revolution, and we have the network and products to take significant advantage of this growth trend.  

I will summarize the quarter as follows. We're gaining market share and expanding customer relationships. It is true in broadband and video with Verizon DSL and FiOS. It is true in Verizon Business, and it is certainly true in Verizon Wireless. Our organic growth initiatives are gaining momentum. We expect to continue this steady progress, and we are confident that this will differentiate us long-term.  

On the cost side, we continue to see significant opportunities. We know how to control expenses, and we have an intense focus on reducing costs. Along with strong operational execution, we continue to increase our financial flexibility and increase value to our shareowners.  

As far as our current share buyback program, we repurchased an additional $350 million in shares during the third quarter for a total of $1.35 billion year-to-date. You will recall that we originally estimated $1 billion for the full year, and we did that in six months. At that time, we increased the buyback program by another $500 million for the second half of the year. We expect to complete the $1.5 billion by year-end.  

As Ron noted earlier, the Idearc spinoff has been approved by our Board with distribution of shares scheduled to occur on or about November 17. As Idearc has reported in its SEC filings, Idearc plans to incur about $9 billion of debt in connection with the spinoff. As a result of the spinoff, Verizon will reduce its debt by about $7 billion through a debt-for-debt exchange mechanism and will receive about $2 billion in cash.  

As previously announced, we plan to recommend to the board that it maintain the Verizon annual dividend at its current level immediately following the spinoff. Going forward, our intention is to continue to pay a competitive dividend.  

Finally, the sales of our Latin America assets are proceeding. All these changes to our asset portfolio, along with continued strong cash generation, will unlock value for our owners.  

In summary, we are on track to meet our operational and financial performance targets for the year. With that, I will turn it back to Ron so we can get to your questions.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Doreen. Operator, Ivan and Doreen are now ready for questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). David Barden, Banc of America Securities.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Two questions if I could. Maybe the first on, as you pointed out the Latin America sales looking on track, the directories spinoff is moving ahead. When you look at the cash that is going to be coming in the door from those and the debt capacity that will be opened up, could you talk a little bit more about what the game plan is as your buybacks starts to kind of come to resolution here?  

And the second thing would be just on the margins, I mean you were talking about operational expense goals on target. One of those goals was expanding wireline margins sequentially over the course of the year. You have taken up the FiOS solution guide a few pennies, but it does not seem like necessarily that would be the biggest driver for some of the margin compression we saw on wireline. And then if you could kind of elaborate a little on the net impact of MCI merger statements versus the FiOS guidance that you have said would be reflected in the fourth-quarter number, that would be great.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. Maybe if I start with the cash question. I think first we should say we feel really good about what we have accomplished this year. The 1.5 billion share of buyback looks like to be sort of a good target for us. We think that the spinout of directory is creating incremental value for us. And then, as you know noted I think in one of your write-ups, the spinout actually increases the dividend for Verizon. So it probably gives us, I don't know, 4%, 4.5% dividend increase this year.  

We also -- we have about probably just under 3 billion coming back from international. We also have $2 billion of spectrum or 2.8 billion in spectrum that we need to pay for mostly in the fourth quarter. So I think if we complete all these transactions, what I would expect is about at least a $7 billion debt reduction coming in from the directory piece. We will use the cash on the $2 billion of spectrum, the $2.8 billion of spectrum that is a fourth-quarter item, and then I think for the rest of it, what we are going to do is certainly meet with our Board, go through what we will do with the rest of the cash and sort of be a first-quarter discussion I think with you folks.  

On the margin question, I would say it really is predominantly FiOS. In the FiOS area, I would suggest it was mostly in cost of acquisition. So the video -- two things. The video ads were a little bit higher than we expected. Cost of acquisition, marketing installation a little bit high. Not bothered by that, because similar to the capital costs and homes passed and homes connected, we feel comfortable that we are going to be able to get to numbers where we need, so that was really driving it, as well as there was a onetime kind of true-up on the content cost. We're really had not been doing much on content cost because it was so early on, so the third quarter had a pretty decent accrual to start the content cost.  

DAVID BARDEN: What was that number, Doreen?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I actually don't have it right in front of me. Maybe Ron can get it to you later, but it was probably not insignificant from the FiOS perspective.  

As far as synergies with the VZB, they are on track. We are comfortable with them, and they will certainly grow to the 550 in the fourth quarter. It is predominantly a FiOS issue as far as the margin coupled with the access lines are probably a little bit softer than we had originally anticipated in the plan. It is probably the other piece of the margin story.  

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Halpern, Sanford Bernstein.  

JEFFERY HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A couple of questions for you. The first one on wireless and Verizon Business. Can you talk a little bit about where you are in the ability for Verizon Business to really cross-sell the wireless services, especially as you are moving into managed services and starting to beef up those offerings, the ability to help enterprise customers move applications to the mobile and to the network?  

And then secondly, just to follow-up on David's question about FiOS and specifically focusing on multiple dwelling units in '07, because you mentioned in your FiOS briefing session a couple of weeks ago that you are clearly moving closer to that, and it is a significant portion of your base of access lines. Can you talk a little bit about how you anticipate the cost, the CapEx to connect customers looking in '07 given the MDU discussion?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN & CEO, VERIZON: On the first question, a couple of things going on right now on the cross-selling with the technologies. We have very sophisticated approaches to putting bits together and working with customers. So we have our salesforces out making joint proposals to customers. We have our operations teams working through operational capabilities for our customers. We have just had a couple of industry conferences in which we have laid out some longer-term product maps so that we can show our customers exactly how we see some of the capabilities. For example, when you look at IP protocols both for wireless and land line, you're looking at four-digit dialing both in wireless and in land line. So we are looking at a whole series of capabilities that will unfold out over the next two to three years and give customers a sense of where we're heading with this.  

I think there is a lot of discussion about this wireless wireline issue. I think the important point for us is the focus on solution selling and how customers understand how the technology unfolds. So we're at the beginning. We have a couple of trials going on here and there on various capabilities. On the consumer side, you did not ask but I will -- we're about to open up a couple of stores that will sell both wireless and broadband, so we're looking at some things that we're doing in that area.  

So this is an exciting opportunity for us, but it is going to be driven mostly by product evolution, and that is how we see taking advantage of the opportunity. I think on a multiple drilling unit question, Doreen, you might --  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes, I guess first I would say that I think we're making progress as far as getting the builder owners consent, which was a big piece of the MDU. Certainly have made technical progress in being able to do it. I would suggest that we would anticipate on a cost to connect that it should actually run cheaper as you would expect depending on what technology. So that actually should be a help to us.  

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Two quick ones, maybe first for you, Doreen. With the FiOS guidance, does the increase in expected dilution this year make you more confident in your ability to lower that number in '07? And if that is not the case, is it purely sort of a success-based issue where if you add more subscribers, that number could go up, or just your thoughts on that given the new guidance would be great.  

And then maybe one for Ivan. The wireless results are obviously very strong, and I think we are surprised on the net add side considering a lot of other carriers are having trouble adding subscribers. Do you see an end to this given the penetration rates we're seeing in the US, or do you think you can maintain this level for another year or two, or I would just love to hear how you think about the industry given the strong margins and net adds?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay, John. I will start with the FiOS question. I would suggest that we have said FiOS dilution should be about flat for '07. I will continue with that kind of guidance. It is as you would imagine, however, success-based. To the extent we are much more successful than we think in video or data, that number would move. But for right now I would still suggest it is about flat.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. On the wireless question, look, we are very excited about our wireless results obviously. They have been strong for almost four years now, five years. So here is the way we think about it. We think that the growth in wireless and the sustainability of our performance is really a function of how the team thinks about investing in their business. So I believe that they have made very smart, very prudent and very thoughtful investments in their capabilities. So whether it is investments in the network -- you know, we have been on the network promotion game since 1999, 2001. So now we are up to EVDO, EVDO Rev A. We have invested in the channels. We have invested in great handsets and products. We have great culture. We have good distribution across the company.  

So my view of all of this is that as long as you see us making forward-looking investments in our capabilities that the growth should be sustainable. In fact, our view is that if you look at the results for the last couple of quarters, most of the analysts ask us can we sustain it. Actually if you look at the results, we have actually widened the lead across the board. And I think as the industry goes through consolidations, companies are going through various changes in their own business. I think we are in a position where we been through most of those changes. We can take advantage of this. If you want a good analogy, it is a little bit like trying to catch the Kenyans in Marathon running. I think you can keep improving your numbers, but I have a feeling that the Kenyans keep getting faster.  

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Ivan, given that we've now almost completed the directory spend, is it time to again open discussions with Vodafone to see if there's any change in their position?  

Also, on the small medium-size business, some of your competitors have seen very strong growth in that unit, and that is something that has not yet turned around for you. Are there specific dynamics that might make that better in '07?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I'm happy to answer the first question. I would not link the two. I think that if I can just since you asked it that way, I might take a second and just comment. When we think of the directory spend, our Board has been very focused that while we are investing for growth in FiOS and then wireless and in completing the Verizon Business transaction with MCI, that we were very concerned about making sure we return some value to shareholders. At the same time, we were improving our balance sheet. So we think the spin stands on its own. We feel good about it.  

As to the Vodafone issue, I think it stands where it always has. This is driven by Vodafone's view of their business. We have a contract with them that would suggest they pull the trigger on whether they want to exit the put or not, and that as you might all view that over the last several months, every time it looks like Verizon is sort of instigating any change it has a negative effect on both stocks. So I think the agreement I have with Arun is that if and when he is ever ready to consider it, that is the way we will move forward. At this point we're not assuming that Vodafone has changed its mind on this point.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think on the small and medium business, I would start with some of it is definitional. I do think that we probably have a little bit more in our medium definition perhaps than the others, so I'm not sure it's exactly apples-to-apples. Some of it is migration on the medium guys up to different data services. We are putting more feet on the street, more agency agreements, and also I think we are pretty encouraged because MCI brought a lot of products to the table that we did not have before. So if I look at our current ramp, it is much better than it was. So I think going forward, I am encouraged with the additional sales capability and the additional products that they now have.  

OPERATOR: Tim Horan, CIBC.  

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, CIBC: Great quarter, guys. Two questions. Just to follow-up on the capital structure. Ivan, what do you think is the right kind of debt to EBITDA multiple longer-term after you are done with a lot of these transactions then when FiOS saw dilution peaks?  

Secondly, I guess more subtly, do you think the cable companies are targeting you where you're doing your FiOS upgrades or where you are about to to try to lock in customers before hand or during the process?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. I will start, and if Doreen has anything she wants to add, she can. Look on the debt to EBITDA numbers, look just to make this pretty clear, if you take a look at the structure of our Board, we have 12 of 14 directors who are financial experts, of which eight of them have been either the CFO or CEOs of both of their companies. For the past three of four years, they have been extremely pointed in directing us to do a couple of things, which is invest for growth, which you see, and at the same time, improve our balance sheet.  

So our targets on debt to EBITDA were about 1.5, you know 1.4, 1.5. Doreen and I have talked about this, and we think that in this kind of an environment and in this kind of an industry, it should probably be a little bit lower. And so whether it is 1.2 or 1.1 or 1.3, that is something Doreen is more qualified to answer. But it definitely long-term should be lower than the 1.5. I think we have kind of moved in that direction.  

So we think a really strong balance sheet, coupled with strong investments in growth, is what our Board has asked us to focus on. So I think we are moving through that. I think these shareholder friendly transactions that we have been able to move on this year in terms of the Idearc spend, the sale of nonstrategic long-term assets and moving through that is a good structure for us. So, as we move out into the future, I think having a strong balance sheet is something that we want to make sure we have, as well as investment-grade ratings for our Company.  

You know, I think hopefully that answers that in a way that gives you a sense that this is really a board-driven activity that, frankly, Doreen and I agree with completely, and our job is to execute on that view.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I guess the only thing I would add is it is probably no longer a one metric issue. So I don't think it's just debt to EBITDA. Tim, I think you have to look at free cash flow to debt as well. So I think there is a couple of other metrics that we will be working with and taking to our Board sort of beginning of the year to see where we land. But it definitely with directory going out, it is lower than 1.5 and higher than 1, so someplace in between.  

TIM HORAN: Thanks. On on the cable targeting of the FiOS upgrades, the reason -- (multiple speakers).  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: That is a good question. Here is what I would say to that. As we go over operating results, here is what we would say. We would say that a lot of the cable companies have had mature evolution of their technologies in some of our markets. Obviously Cablevision has and as has Comcast, so I don't think it is a question of targeting us. It is a matter of where they have started. Cox has also been pretty far along the train up there in the New England area.  

So I think the way I would look at this is not that we have been targeted. It is that it is followed along their own technology evolution, and I happen to believe that the models that you have seen in certain markets will roll out across the country in the way they have done that.  

The other side of the coin is, you can see in some of the markets where they have rolled out early, we have started to see a little bit of a plateauing of some of the services they are showing. So our view of this whole excess line issue is that we will continue to see some pressure on access lines. Some will come from wireless substitutions. Some will come from the cable companies, the (indiscernible). But we think as we look out into the future our strategies for our own wireless and our own FiOS will begin to arrest that. Perhaps Doreen could help you operationalize that in your models in a second here.  

DOREEN TOBEN: As far as access lines?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, sure.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I guess what I would say is, as we go into '07 and we look at the back half of '07 third, fourth quarter, we would expect that you are going to see certainly an improvement in where we are today and a flattening of the access lines is kind of what we are predicting. So it would be better.  

OPERATOR: Mike McCormack, Bear Stearns.  

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Doreen, I am just trying to maybe dig into the margin question a little bit deeper. If you look at the pressure sequentially, we're looking at about 80 basis points of pressure sequentially. 70 basis points appears to be sort of FiOS related, and then you've got an offset from MCI synergies ramping up in my math around 100 to 120 basis points. So it looks like there's something significant in the range of 100 to 130 basis points of pressure. Is that just increasing competition and pressure is on the traditional business?  

And then secondly, the enterprise revenue trends, obviously you're hearing good things across the industry. Maybe just the comment on the competitive environment, and maybe Verizon's appetite, there has been a lot of consolidation. Are there any assets out there on the enterprise side that might be of interest?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think on the margin issue, Mike, you were right, it is really coming -- you know, I mentioned in the text here that it was access lines. I think it really is coming on the regular telco wirelines side of the business in that the loss of access lines was causing the additional piece of the margin erosion for the most part. And then as far as (multiple speakers)  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: On the enterprise, I think on that point, a couple of things. Generally what we are seeing is some consistent pressure on some of the repricing of contracts like you would have normally seen. But we are seeing, for example, Doreen pointed out earlier, our strategic services are up over 20%, and we are seeing some stabilization in the way customers are looking at overall contracts. So we are feeling better about our ability to continue to ramp. As you can see in the results sequentially, we're up 3% in Verizon Business and 1.7% year-over-year.  

As to your other question in terms of assets, no, I think we are pretty much focused on organic movement. We have a lot of work on the IT side and in the systems side to improve our capabilities. We're also working on product maps to generate a lot of new products and services. So we don't see a big strategic need for any movement at this point, so it is not something we are out in the market hunting for.  

OPERATOR: Tom Seitz, Lehman Brothers.  

TOM SEITZ, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Could you comment on the demand environment in wireline business? The economic data seems to say one thing one week and another thing the next. I was wondering from your perspective, given the long sales cycle, are you seeing any slowing down in the number of RFPs that you're getting to look at or any requests for delays in circuit delivery? Just kind of look given the economic backdrop at the demand for business telcos services.  

And then secondly, with respect to small and medium business, are you starting to see in your territories any evidence of cable starting to target the small-business market? They have certainly talked about doing it, and I was wondering any prelaunch marketing activity, advertising campaigns, etc.?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Well --  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Doreen and I are trying to figure out who is going to answer this since -- I decided Doreen is going to answer this.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Well, if I start on the demand side for Verizon Business, we are incredibly pleased. You know, I would say they are not seeing any slowdown due to the economic conditions. More RFPs I think than they have ever seen. They are writing more business than they have ever seen. If you would talk to any of the salesforce, incredibly encouraged with what they are seeing. So absolutely none as far is that is concerned.  

On the small-business side, what was the question on the small-business? (multiple speakers) Cable, I think what we would say is cable, especially in our territory, Cablevision for a long time has been targeting the small-business. You have probably seem maybe Comcast starting to ramp, but Cablevision has been after the business segment for a very long time. So I think we are used to it.  

I would say outside the Cablevision territory, I don't think it is something that we are seeing a lot of at the moment.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, I would like to turn the call over now to Ivan Seidenberg for some concluding remarks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Thank you. Just a couple of comments to close the call. As always, thank you for listening in and participating on our call.  

The headlines for us are pretty clear. We feel that this was an important quarter for us, not only in delivering the results that Doreen talked about, but beginning to see some expansion of our topline, particularly generating a lot of organic growth across the board. And our view of all of that is with the right investments in new platforms and services, the market is going to respond to the kind of innovation that we think all this technology brings. We think that if you look very quickly, VZW a great quarter, making the right investments, and our view is they have the capability to not only sustain but continue to widen their lead on the industry.  

In the telco, as you can see, we had overall a positive quarter, even though we do have some work to do to continue to drive profitability. But we are very comfortable and actually pleased with the expansion of the topline with broadband volumes and the success of FiOS.  

One thing we did not get a chance to talk about is every customer survey we do for people who already have FiOS, the churn is low and the customer satisfaction numbers are off the charts. So we know the product is a winning product, and it is a question of making sure that we continue to drive the profitability as you have been asking the questions.  

In Verizon Business, lots of activity. Topline expansion. Lots of interest in customers moving to IP and MPLS. We still have obviously voice pressures on the business, but for the most part, customers are really being driven to follow the new technology.  

And lastly, hopefully you have seen in 2006 we spent a great deal of time trying to unlock value in other ways. In terms of assets sales, the Idearc spend, improving the balance sheet, share buyback that Doreen talked about, effective dividend increase that comes. So we feel good that as we head toward the end of the year, we have approached driving value for shareholders in a more balanced way, and hopefully you can see that is being reflected in the performance of the stock so far this year.  

So thank you all, and we will continue to do what we do, and we will see you in the first quarter.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, that concludes our third-quarter earnings call. Thank you, everybody, for joining us today.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061113e2au000ma
  


 HD
 Q2  2006  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,357 words
   PD
1 August 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second quarter 2006 earnings conference call.  

At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President Investor Relations of Verizon.  

RON LATAILLE, SVP INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our second quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Ron Lataille.  

With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer.  

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the Investor Quarterly publication and the presentation slides are on the Investor Relations Web site.  

This call is being Webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our Web site.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained within this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings which are available on our Web site.  

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules. We have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on the same Web page as our presentation slides.  

In early July, we filed an 8-K that contained some important information. In the 8-K filing we provided unaudited historical consolidated financial information for the last five quarters, restated for the reclassification of Verizon Dominicana and Puerto Rico Telephone as discontinued operations as a result of their impending sale. The income on discontinued operations of $119 million this quarter is part of our adjusted EPS. Also, we will no longer be reporting international as a separate segment.  

The same 8-K filing also included pro forma combined and wireline financial results of operations for the last five quarters reflecting our merger with MCI. You can readily obtain this information from our Web site.  

Before turning the call over to Doreen for a review of our results, I'd like to cover the differences between reported and adjusted earnings.  

Reported earnings per diluted share for the second quarter of 2006 were $0.55. On an adjusted basis before the effects of special items, EPS was $0.64.  

The special items that make up the difference between reported and adjusted EPS are discussed in our earnings release and provided in reconciliation tables in the investor quarterly bulletin.  

Briefly, there are three special items which we are excluding from adjusted results. $186 million in after-tax charges, or $0.06 per share related to severance and related charges for 3,200 people who will leave the Company between now and the end of the year. $48 million after-tax, or $0.02 per share for merger integration costs and $29 million after-tax, or $0.01 per share for relocation and other costs related to our move to the Verizon Center.  

With that I will now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone.  

Let me start by saying that we had a strong quarter in terms of financial and operating performance. We are gaining revenue and earnings momentum and we have confidence that we will continue to make steady progress in all our businesses.  

In Wireless, we had another quarter of very strong profitable growth. We were strong in several key performance indicators: Customer growth, service ARPU, churn, and margin.  

We have further demonstrated the sustainability of our results and continue to differentiate ourselves from the competition, particularly with our high quality retail customer base which leads to higher margins.  

We made solid progress in the wireline business. In Telecom, we continue to position ourselves by investing in the platforms for future growth.  

We had another excellent quarter in broadband and video. In addition, aggressive cost control helped us offset the up-front cost of deploying new products.  

We are making great progress in Verizon Business. We had sequential revenue growth. We are seeing many encouraging signs in terms of improving trends. Our integration efforts are going well, so overall, a very strong quarter.  

Okay, let's turn now to Slide 4 and look at some of the details. Total revenues were up 26% and net income was up 6% compared with second quarter last year, a comparison that is favorably affected by the inclusion of MCI this year.  

On a pro forma basis, consolidated revenue growth was 2.3% year-over-year and also up 1.8% sequentially. Revenue increases were driven by growth in wireless, broadband, and enterprise data services.  

Strong cash expense controls resulted in operating margin expansion in the quarter. Operating income increased 12.4% and operating income margins increased 160 basis points year-over-year.  

These results include the effects of net pensions and OPEB which amounted to $384 million in the second quarter, $77 million more than last year. Remember that we do not exclude the effects of amortization of intangibles from our adjusted results. You will recall us telling you last quarter that amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of MCI will result in approximately $210 million of annualized expense.  

Looking at our cash flow and balance sheet, you see that we continue to have very strong cash generation. On a year-to-date basis, CFFO totaled $11.5 billion which is $1.6 billion better than the first half of last year.  

Capital spending was $8.3 billion for the first half of which $5 billion is wireline and $3.2 billion is wireless. At the halfway point in the year we are on track to meet our stated guidance for full year Cap Ex spending.  

Debt was $42.4 billion at June 30 and all our credit metrics remain strong.  

Let's turn now to the wireline financials on Slide 6. Starting with revenues, the encouraging news is positive sequential growth. We will review the drivers of this growth by market on the next chart.  

Pro forma revenues were down 6.2% year-over-year driven in part by continued and expected declines in the former MCI mass-market business which decreased $226 million, or 25.7% this quarter. Another cause of the decline was the absence of revenues from less strategic areas we have exited like the logistics business. This is the last full quarter that we will see the effects of a large contract termination last summer.  

The real story in wireline is our focus on expense controls and margin expansion, especially in light of increasing competition and the upward pressure on expenses from growth initiatives, particularly the fiber build. As you can see, on an all-in pro forma basis, second quarter cash expenses declined 6.7% year-over-year and 1% sequentially.  

In Telecom, year-over-year expense reductions were driven by headcount controls, improved employee productivity and ramping automation and self-service initiatives. In Verizon Business headcount controls and reductions in access costs contributed to this decline.  

Expenses related to FiOS increased both sequentially and year-over-year. All-in FiOS represented $0.07of EPS dilution this quarter compared to $0.06 in the first quarter.  

Obviously, we were able to more than offset expenses associated with the growth initiatives. The strict focus on cost management resulted in sequential operating income growth and margin expansion of 15% and 120 basis points respectively. If you exclude net pensions and OPEB costs, the wireline operating income margin would be 12.5%.  

We continue to see significant opportunities for additional cost savings in the wireline business. These opportunities are in addition to the synergy savings we have identified in Verizon Business. We remain confident that wireline margins will expand and show sequential improvement as we go through the year.  

The next chart gives us a closer look at wireline revenues by market. Consumer market revenues totaled $4.3 billion in the quarter. Revenues from the former MCI mass-market business, which generated $582 million of that total, declined 24% year-over-year and 6.6% sequentially.  

Excluding the mass-market effect reduces the consumer revenue decline rather dramatically. In fact, on a sequential basis, legacy Verizon revenues decreased only .4%, or $15 million driven in large part to the success in broadband.  

Looking ahead, we received favorable regulatory pricing in a few states. These approved rate increases are worth about $100 million on an annualized basis and became effective in late second and early third quarter.  

In addition, we are looking at several other strategic pricing advantages in the second half of this year that will increase revenues in the consumer market.  

In the small-medium business market revenues increased both year-over-year and sequentially. Again, revenues from the former MCI mass-market, which totaled $96 million in the quarter, declined 15% year-over-year. Within this market, legacy Verizon Business revenues grew 2% year-over-year and 2.4% sequentially.  

Revenues in the enterprise business market, which represent the domestic retail portion of Verizon Business, reported 1% sequential growth. As we'll discuss shortly, total Verizon Business revenues grew 1.6% sequentially. This is a very encouraging sign and the first time we have seen sequential growth in quite some time.  

Wireline wholesale, which includes both Telecom and Business wholesale revenues, increased 1.4% sequentially driven by increased volumes in the domestic long haul network.  

Data is a growing percentage of our overall wireline revenues now standing at approximately 31% of the total. Quarterly data revenues totaled $4 billion representing nearly a 5% increase on a year-over-year pro forma basis and 3% sequentially.  

Within Telecom revenue growth is driven by consumer broadband, both DSL and FiOS, as well as a continued healthy demand for wholesale services.  

As for Verizon Business data revenues totaled $2.5 billion with approximately 30% of this revenue being IP related. In Verizon Business as I've said, we are focused on sequential improvement.  

Overall in the first quarter since the formation of Verizon Business, revenues grew 1.6% sequentially which is very good progress in a very short period of time. The sequential improvement in enterprise business is a result of the continued traction in key products and better stability and growth in certain traditional services.  

Certain voice and private line pricing show early signs of stabilization although some products are increasingly price competitive. Wholesale revenues were sequentially flat as improvements domestically were offset by some modest declines internationally.  

Our focus within Verizon Business is to increase revenues from strategic services. These include private IP, IP VPN, managed security, hosting, managed data network and other Internet services.  

Revenues from these services have been steadily growing and totaled more than $900 million in the second quarter, up 17% year-over-year. On a sequential basis strategic service revenues were up 5.4%.  

We also intend to capitalize on growth opportunities by focusing on increasing market share penetration in the managed, security and hosting markets.  

We realized about $150 million in incremental synergies during the quarter, bringing our first half total to around $200 million. Most of these savings are driven by headcount reductions, sourcing synergies, network optimization and traffic migration.  

We expect to see a significant ramp-up in synergies in the second half of 2006, particularly as we complete the migration of off network voice and IP traffic onto our own networks. We remain very confident that we will achieve at least the $550 million of targeted synergies this year.  

Our integration spending is also on target. We have a number of system integration projects underway. We expect to see cost savings relating to these systems integration activities later this year and into 2007 and beyond.  

Let's turn now to Telecom and start with a look at some customer metrics. As I said earlier, we continue to make great progress in broadband.  

With 440,000 net new broadband customers in this quarter, we now exceed 6.1 million broadband connections with 1.6 million being added over the last three quarters which is industry-leading. Total access lines were down 7.4% compared with a year ago and 1 million lower on a sequential quarterly basis.  

One-third of the 1 million net lines lost in the quarter were a combination of wholesale lines and former MCI mass-market customers in region. That said, the retail residential line loss of 553,000 was higher than the past few quarters due in part to the expected quarterly seasonality as well as increased competition.  

If we broaden the consumer picture beyond access lines and including broadband and video customers, a metric we call Revenue Generating Units, or RGUs, you see that we are flat sequentially and actually up about 1% versus last year.  

In addition to broadband growth, customer response to our Freedom bundles has also been very positive. The number of total Freedom customers has increased more than 40% in the past year alone. Our consumer Freedom penetration is now nearly 22%, up from 16% at the start of the year.  

I would also note that for legacy Verizon customers, the average revenue per household per month has increased more than 1% sequentially and year-over-year.  

Within the Telecom business, we remain focused and committed to our fiber initiative and we're making good progress in deploying FTTP, improving costs, increasing net adds, and increasing customer penetration.  

As of mid-July, we have passed an additional 1.5 million homes bringing the cumulative homes passed to 4.5 million. We're well on our way to reaching 6 million total homes passed by year-end.  

As the scale of our deployment increases we're seeing costs declining. We have taken, and will continue to take, actions which will result in improvements in the cost to pass and connect homes.  

For example, we have renegotiated contractor rates and have implemented some pre-fabricated and pre-splicing work before going to connect homes. We are also realizing the benefits of lower fiber costs.  

Also, as many of you know, we just announced our GPON vendor selection. The adoption of GPON provides significant capacity improvement over BPON. This move to GPON will result in significant decreases in both current and future costs.  

There are also some technology solutions which will make connecting homes a more efficient process. We recently introduced our new broadband home router which is capable of providing connectivity to our FiOS network at speeds of up to 100-megabits per second. This router utilizes existing in-home wiring for broadband data and video signals.  

Another technology which should reduce installation times is being developed by MoCA, or the Multimedia Over Coax Alliance. We hope to begin using some of this technology as soon as this September.  

As I've previously indicated, as we gain experience and scale with FiOS, we will share this knowledge with you. To that end, we are planning 'FiOS briefing sessions' within the next few months to further discuss these costs improvement efforts as well as other operating expense savings opportunities. In addition to addressing FiOS economics, we will also cover our technology and marketing programs.  

We continue to see a strong and growing customer response to both our data and video product offerings. As our fiber deployment continues and scale increases, we are really seeing FiOS data taking off.  

We now have a total of 375,000 FiOS data subscribers, having added 111,000 during the past quarter alone. To further illustrate our progress, net adds for the month of June were 25% higher than in the month of March.  

Our total penetration across all markets now stands at 12%. The average penetration at the one-year mark is 15%.  

We calculate penetration based on the number of customers divided by the number of homes open for sale. We had 3.1 million homes open for sale at the end of June.  

Speed is the winner in the broadband race. In key competitive markets we have doubled the speed of entry level FiOS data service to 10-megabits per second. We also offer 20-megabits. Both of these have 2-megabits upstream capability.  

We also recently introduced a 50-meg downstream and 5-meg upstream service in these markets. This is the fastest Internet connection speed in the country and appeals to communications intensive consumers, telecommuters, and small businesses.  

As with DSL, we are finding FiOS data to be very retentive. FiOS churn is very low, in fact, it is similar to our wireless churn rate. This bodes well for us as we continue to expand our video rollouts and can offer more customers the triple play.  

During the quarter we made significant progress in gaining local video franchises, and now have secured more than 100 in total. We are currently offering FiOS TV in about 60 markets across seven states.  

We are seeing great initial acceptance by customers across our whole footprint, particularly in the more mature data markets. Our average video penetration rates are 7% at the three-month mark and 10% after six months.  

99% of our video customers choose a digital package. More than 60% have selected advanced set top boxes with DVRs and/or high definition capabilities.  

About 80% of our FiOS video customers get all three services from us: voice, data, and video. Our churn rates are very low and our video ARPU has been strong, benchmarking well with the competition.  

In addition to an extremely robust and competitive video offering including some great sports content deals, in the month of June we launched our first interactive television service called FiOS Widgets. This is a simple application enabling one-button access to local weather and traffic.  

Now, we're going to offer our next interactive service, the Home Media DVR. This innovation combines access to video recordings from any set top box in any room, a multi-room DVR with the ability to access through the set top box any photos and music stored in your computer, a media manager.  

Customer research shows exceptional interest in these applications. This is just the beginning of many new innovative and differentiated services we have planned with FiOS video. Needless to say, we are very pleased with our progress in FiOS data and video and we're quite optimistic about our future prospects to gain market share.  

The best way to summarize wireline is to say we're positioning ourselves for future growth. As we invest in the platforms for future growth, we are making very good progress at preserving our core margins.  

It is imperative that we reduce our cost structure in areas unrelated to the fiber initiative. We are preserving core profitability by driving at least enough costs out of the business to offset the dilutive effects of our FiOS initiative, which we estimate to be between 28 and $0.30 on EPS in 2006.  

We must also offset the effect of declines in our traditional voice product revenue streams. We have seen strong broadband net adds during this transition which have helped stabilize and grow our RGUs.  

In Verizon Business, we are off to a great start. Customer receptivity to our management and sales teams have been excellent and we are gaining share of spends with our enterprise customers. We saw sequential growth in revenues and are focused on sales of our strategic IP based services.  

The ability to offer integrated wireless solutions to business customers is providing another incremental revenue opportunity and we're positioning ourselves to be successful in this area. We are also very committed to increasing efficiencies.  

I noted earlier that our integration efforts are going very well and the realization of synergy savings is on target. The bottom line here is we see wireline margin expansion opportunities and we are sharply focused on capturing these opportunities.  

Let's move now to Wireless. Verizon Wireless continued to post industry-leading results with another quarter of outstanding metrics. A big highlight is service ARPU accretion which was up year-over-year and also sequentially.  

As you know, we added another 1.8 million net new customers during the second quarter. Of note, all of these are retail customers, both consumer and business.  

This marks the eighth consecutive quarter in which we added more than 1.5 million net retail customers. We believe we have the most retail customers in the industry. Our 52.6 million retail customers represent 96% of our total customer base of 54.8 million.  

Retail has been a focus of ours for a long time. We serve and manage these customers directly. They choose our brand, they know whose network they are on and they are high quality customers in terms of loyalty and lifetime revenue.  

We are also the fastest growing U.S. wireless company in terms of absolute numbers of customers having added 7.5 million new customers to our base in the past 12 months. Again, virtually all of these are retail. Very few are from our wholesale channel.  

We also continued to set records for low churn, a key measure of customer loyalty. Total monthly churn of 1.13% was the lowest in the Company's history and, we believe, the lowest ever in the wireless industry for a major carrier. Churn among our retail post-paid customers was exceptional at only .87%, another Company and industry record.  

There are more customers choosing and staying with Verizon-branded service than any other wireless brand. Beyond delivering the best network, we continue to work hard at earning customer's loyalty.  

We recently announced plans to prorate early termination fee and to expand our Worry Free Guarantee beginning this fall. These moves are in keeping with our well-established track record of listening and making policy decisions based on customer needs.  

Retail gross adds were sequentially higher and increased to just under 3.5 million. Furthermore, 87% of our retail gross adds were post-paid.  

During the quarter, 75% of our retail post-paid gross adds came from our direct distribution channels. This is key because we have found that customers who buy through our direct channels have lower churn and tend to return to us for services and upgrades.  

At the same time, we continue to expand and diversify our indirect distribution channel which includes individual agents and national retailers like Costco and Best Buy.  

In the second quarter we also added our post-paid product lineup in some 1900 Wal-Mart stores nationwide. At present we have 12,800 total doors in our indirect channel with a diversified product, distribution and geographic mix.  

Taking advantage of new retail channels and models, both direct and with our indirect partners, has helped us maintain a high quality base and our industry-leading efficiency and profitability.  

Let's turn now to the financials on Chart 19. Total quarterly revenues, which are now in excess of $9 billion, grew 18% year-over-year. Sequentially, revenues were up $449 million.  

I said earlier that we were the fastest-growing U.S. wireless company in terms of customer additions. Importantly, this growth was accompanied by continued, industry-best margins and profitability. The sustainability of our margins is driven by the quality of our customer mix, our efficient cost structure, and economies of scale.  

EBITDA grew to $3.6 billion, a sequential improvement of 5.2%. The quarterly EBITDA margin was 44.4%, up from 43% a year ago.  

Taking a closer look at revenues. Growth in service revenues was again driven by increased data usage and the high quality customer profile of new adds. Expanding data revenues are more than covering reductions in voice revenues per user.  

Total service ARPU of $49.71 increased both sequentially and year-over-year as did retail service ARPU of $50.34. Data revenue accounted for nearly 13% of service revenue.  

It was not long ago that we talked about data as a billion dollar business annualized. Now, data revenues are generating $1 billion per quarter. Data contributed $6.40 of ARPU, up almost $3 year-over-year and $0.82 sequentially.  

More than half of our retail customers are data users and 10 million of them have broadband devices. As we've said many times, the key to our success in wireless data is our commitment to investing in the network.  

Our lineup of broadband devices for business is industry-leading. We continue to see strong uptake from business customers on broadband access cards, embedded laptops and PDAs.  

In the consumer space, our customers exchanged more than 12 billion text messages this quarter. We see a significant opportunity for growth in our VCAST and VCAST music customers.  

Yesterday you may have seen our announcement of the music-centric 'Chocolate' phone from LG. Ours exclusively in the U.S.  

We are very excited about this device which is wildly popular internationally. In all, we now have nine phones for VCAST music, many of which also include VZ Navigator software.  

To summarize, we have a long track record of consistent, sustained performance. This was the 16th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year revenue growth, the eighth consecutive quarter that the Company added more than 1.5 million retail customers, the sixth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margins of greater than 40% and the 14th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in gross adds and churn, the best proof point of network reliability has been 1.5% or below for more than two years.  

We attribute this record of consistency to three key drivers: Network quality, industry-leading loyalty, and cost efficiency.  

In closing I'd summarize this way. Again, our financial and operating performance for both the second quarter and first half of 2006 were strong. In fact, we saw better than expected sequential growth.  

We are also on target to meet our full year guidance. Our growth initiatives are gaining momentum and we have confidence that we will continue to make steady progress in all our businesses.  

Wireless continued to surpass its own milestones for growth, profitability and customer churn reinforcing its industry lead. The transformation to broadband continues with another strong quarter of customer acceptance of DSL and particularly FiOS products.  

Verizon Business integration plans are going well and we are building momentum. We expect to continue seeing sequential improvement in both revenues and expenses as we move through the year.  

On the revenue and cost side, we continue to see significant opportunities to drive margin expansion. We know how to control expenses and we have an intense focus on reducing costs.  

Along with operational execution, we continue to increase our flexibility in returning value to our shareowners. The Verizon Information Services divestiture is on schedule to be completed this year.  

During the quarter we accelerated our share buybacks, repurchasing an additional $600 million. This means we have already met our full year target of $1billion in just six months. We plan to continue our share buyback program and are targeting another $500 million in repurchases over the remainder of the year.  

With that, I'll turn it back to Ron so we can get to your questions.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Doreen. Operator, Ivan and Doreen are now ready for questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your first question comes from Jeff Halpern of Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead with your question.  

JEFF HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Good morning, Ivan, Doreen, Ron. How are you?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Good. Hi, Jeff.  

JEFF HALPERN: Two questions. First for Ivan.  

Last week Verizon Wireless obviously pre-announced its strong subscriber numbers, concurrently with some of Vodafone's results. Your stock didn't react despite very strong movements from your peer group and it seems to me that was in no small part a result of Arun making statements at his analyst meeting about how he'd be willing to sell you his stake in Verizon Wireless if you were only willing to pay a fair price.  

I was wondering, Ivan, if you could just talk about how you're thinking about the ownership structure now and then any perceived financial benefits you think might accrue to you if you owned all of it and would those make you willing to pay more than a normal multiple?  

And then secondly for Doreen, in a press release last week on the GPON announcement in the sort of the bottom of the press release there was some qualitative statements about the cost savings of fiber versus the legacy copper infrastructure. In the past you've given us some guidance on that subject as far as what you're seeing in a more quantitative nature. Could you be a little bit more specific about the areas you're seeing operational expense savings from fiber? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. Actually Jeff, I'm going to go first if that's okay.  

JEFF HALPERN: Sure.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Doing the GPON question first, I think what we would suggest and actually, I think we've seen one or two analysts estimate it pretty accurately, that we expect GPON will save us about $100 per home connected. Also as we potentially get increased or decreased, I should say, pricing on BPON, we actually think we'll get $100 in savings from a BPON perspective as well on per home connected.  

I went through in the script some of the other things that we're seeing as far as we've renegotiated contractor rates, we're doing some pre-fab work. We've talked about MoCA, and I will give you something anecdotally that we've looked at.  

We've looked at a group of customers that have trouble, a fair amount of trouble say over a 90-day period and for those customers, they may have had 130 troubles over the past 90 days. After we migrate them to fiber the number of troubles go down to like 14, so we're seeing like an 80 to 90% reduction in trouble reports for those customers that we migrate to FiOS. So we're seeing outside plant improvements, particular with troubles. So our anecdotal evidence continues to be good.  

We did mention, I did mention earlier that we'll have some briefing sessions, which I know everybody's been interested in, to go through even more details for you in the not too distant future.  

JEFF HALPERN: Okay. Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Jeff on the Vodafone front, two parts to your question. The first one is when the net adds were released last week, there were some reports that indicated they thought that the 1.8 million net adds would come at a cost to EBITDA margin which is not the case. So hopefully people now when they see the whole picture, they'll have a more positive view of the superior performance of 1.8 net adds.  

Also, Arun was in New York last week and he and I sat down and we talked. And so I think that what's probably good for investors to understand is I think I can provide some clarity about what this whole partnership thing will look like. So very quickly, what Arun communicated to us was that Vodafone was extremely pleased with their position in the partnership.  

The operating agreement between the two of us is strong, is sustainable, it's stood the test of time over these five or six years and their view is that the creation of value that's available to them over the next several years is far greater than any strategy that they might have to exit the partnership. He reiterated that was exactly the position of Sir John Bond, his new Chairman, and for all practical purposes I had the chance to meet John Bond also within the last month or so and that's exactly the situation.  

As we've said before, the whole idea here is that this is a Vodafone driven issue. If they feel like they want to stay in the partnership, that's their right and we're frankly, we believe that's a good position for them to be in and it's okay with us.  

I had a chance then to sit down with Arun and go over what we thought was, what we had communicated to them over the past year or so, what our operating philosophy would be over the next four or five years, and that would be that we're going to still run the business to seek market share growth, profitable growth. We're going to maintain margins in the low to mid 40s, we're going to invest in new technologies, we're going to acquire spectrum when and where we need it, we're going to delever the business and basically continue to improve the financial metrics of the business over the next several years.  

Arun, who goes to all the Board meetings and is very active in it said Ivan, that's exactly what we've agreed to and so let's both make sure that we clarify to our respective investors that at this point in time there really isn't much reason for people to speculate over any change in the whole arrangement between the two companies.  

So Jeff, as far as I'm concerned, I think the issue here is pretty much resolved over the next several years. Now unless there's a specific change on the part of Vodafone 's thinking, I think we now have clarity over the sustainability of the partnership.  

We'll focus on running a great business, and both sets of shareholders will understand how we intend to drive value in the Company.  

JEFF HALPERN: Great. Thanks for the detail.  

Ron Lataille - Verizon Communications Inc. - SVP Investor Relations: Thanks, Jeff. Operator, next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from John Hodulik of UBS. Please go ahead with your question.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thanks. Good morning.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hi, John.  

JOHN HODULIK: Hi. Two quick ones for you.  

First on the access line losses, the losses continue to accelerate and obviously there's a number of cross currents. Could you comment on like a negative note increasing competition you're seeing from cable in your markets?  

And then secondly, obviously FiOS is, I think, a little bit ahead of where we thought it would be in terms of penetration. Any comment on how you see the two of those sort of coming together and potentially slowing access line losses over time and essentially what kind of trends you're seeing in markets where you have FiOS?  

And then finally, wireless ARPU, we were surprised at the ARPU growth there. Is this the beginning of a trend that we could see for the rest of the year and into next year and just how you see data penetration continuing as EV-DO start to gain some traction?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'll start with the access lines.  

I think it's fair to say that giving the increased technology substitution that we would continue to see access lines continue to go down. I think you know that we're much more focused these days on RGUs of which we did see some growth in the quarter, and with increasing success with our broadband products. We think that the RGUs will have growth and will see a different trend in the revenues.  

Having said that, it would be fair to say especially with the new Comcast turn-ups that we did see, we think, increased competition in those areas that Comcast turned up.  

Looking at sort of the FiOS piece of it, obviously, the reason we're doing FiOS is to decelerate the access line reduction. We have looked at, on a central office by central office basis, to see where we have FiOS, has the trend changed? In general, I would say that's the case where you see a slowing.  

We also see, obviously, a higher FiOS ARPU than we do for the access line, so it's early. We're tracking it real closely and I don't want to give you a definitive answer, but it's trending in the right place where we have FiOS.  

On the ARPU, obviously as you know, ARPU is sort of a function of how much capital do you put in the ground and all of your new products. We did see, we think this is great news, sequential plus year-over-year accretion here, obviously, driven by the data component of it. I would say that our plan would be to continue to see over the planning period, I'm not going to be as specific as to say each Q, but over the planning period we do think that the data, because of EV-DO and the VCAST music and whatnot, is going to allow us to have ARPU accretion.  

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, John. Operator, next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Tim Horan of CIBC. Please go ahead with your question.  

TIM HORAN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hi, Tim.  

TIM HORAN: Three questions if you don't mind.  

Ivan, maybe you can talk on the strategic front. Does this change the Vodafone issues? Does that change what you're going to do with directories and maybe rural lines and maybe where you're at on the leverage side?  

And then two fundamental questions. On the ARPU side, you definitely outperformed and the results are pretty incredible.  

Other countries around the world that have been at this level of data penetration have seen ARPUs kind of flatten out. Maybe some reason you think the U.S. might be different? I have some thoughts on that but just your thoughts.  

And then third, on FiOS I mean it clearly is the best product on video and data when you're in these markets. Can you maybe talk a little bit more about your most mature markets where you're at in penetration and why wouldn't you ultimately get more like 50% penetration or at least 50% market share on the video side? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, I'll take a cut at some of these.  

On the strategic front, as we've said all along, the transactions to sell international properties as well as to spin the VIS property, or spin or sell it, was never exclusively driven by any transaction with Vodafone. We think they're all shareholder friendly transactions that will help us in different ways return value to shareholders.  

We think it's a significant deleveraging issue with the Directories business and we think we can deploy the capital better and by selling international properties is another way to do that. So we're going to proceed with those full speed ahead as we've committed and we think that when you look at our Company toward the end of this year and into next year our profile changes.  

Doreen made the key point that all three of our units made some contribution to value creation this quarter, sequential growth in Business and certainly both sequential and year-over-year in Wireless and significant new momentum developed in FiOS. So, we feel good about the strategic positioning of the whole Company and we'll continue down that track. As far as any other activities, we always keep our eyes open but there's nothing to report at this point.  

The ARPU issue? We talk a lot about this, Doreen probably has a better answer than I would, but from an operating standpoint when we sit around and talk about ARPU, we basically are talking about making the capital investments, investing in our distribution, investing in our applications, training our people and in effect running an overall business that drives the quality of the customer we get.  

Remember we have a very high percentage of post-paid customers which I think helps in the issue of ARPU because it drives a higher quality experience for both our customers and for the business. So we think we have a formula that has worked for us and we're going to continue to work it and I believe that it will lead to continued success down this path, and again, as Doreen said, over the planning period it's been important to us to develop in effect a business model that drives not only growth in net adds but growth in profitability and to do that you need to keep your eye on ARPU.  

The last point about FiOS I think our earnings release shows that, and I think Doreen said it in her remarks, that after nine months we're looking at 12% penetration in FiOS. In markets that we've been in a little bit longer, the penetration is higher.  

Could we go higher? The answer to that is I expect it to and that we drive our people to make it go higher.  

At this point our experience is what it is and so we're not going to come off of the trends that we have but we believe if we continue to do the things we're doing we have the chance to continually beat the progress that we've been making so far. So we're feeling good about that.  

And what we didn't talk about this release is that we're also in 60 markets providing video and we're seeing some anecdotal evidence, just like we saw in data, that the take rates are pretty good, and that the ARPUs associated with that are competitive and that as we get more critical mass and scale we'll be able to do the same thing for you with video that we've done with data and that is provide a little bit more transparency in the results as we get a bigger footprint in the video market.  

TIM HORAN: Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yeah, the only thing I'd add, Tim, is if you look at the data in Europe versus the U.S, Europe is primarily driven by SMS and if you look here at our data ARPU, SMS while a good piece and growing quickly, all the new services are really growing a lot more and so I think that gives us an opportunity that's different from over there.  

And I would just add on the video and data ARPU and FiOS if you look at some of our mature markets, we are significantly, significantly higher than what we're showing you, but at this point we're sort of, from a modeling standpoint, being conservative.  

TIM HORAN: Thanks again.  

Ron Lataille - Verizon Communications Inc. - SVP Investor Relations: Thanks, Tim. Operator, next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from David Barden of Banc of America.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, guys. Good morning.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hi, David.  

DAVID BARDEN: First question I just wanted to hit Doreen just on some of the FiOS growth. I guess kind of revisiting some of your prior comments I guess in the past that you've been seeing maybe a one-third conversion rate on DSL to FiOS and that the rest of the FiOS growth was kind of incremental.  

It does look like if you subtract out FiOS from the combined broadband subscriber growth that it would suggest maybe some relatively faster DSL trajectory on the downside than we've seen from some of your counterparts in the investment community. I was wondering if you could kind of talk about how you're thinking about DSL growth versus FiOS growth substitution, strategically how you're trying to make sure this is additional as opposed to substitutive?  

Second, if I could just quick ask more on the kind of MCI enterprise business side, kind of the color on the pricing commentary, both at the retail and the wholesale level, especially kind of how the competitive environment is shaping up there?  

And then last, if I could just quick, obviously, it's non-core business but just on the revenue side in the directory year-over-year it does seem that it's a bit of a distinction at the Verizon Information Services business with the high single-digit negative growth versus kind of flat to positive growth at other directories businesses out there, if you could just quick comment on that? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: On the directory one, there was a large piece that was international in the prior Q, so if you actually adjusted that out, the number is more like 4 or 5% down so it's significantly different. So there was a one-time issue in that particular one.  

On the FiOS, it's still maybe a 30%-ish conversion from DSL to FiOS. I would suggest that we're not seeing a slowdown in DSL at all, really at all.  

What we are doing in those areas where we have FiOS is obviously heavily promoting FiOS as opposed to DSL, but we are absolutely not seeing a slowdown in the DSL numbers. I think if you look at the absolute number, this was the best second quarter that we've had in DSL subs, so that's been really strong.  

On the enterprise side, I don't know if I could add too much more than what we've told you and that is that pricing is what we expected at this point. We haven't seen any acceleration of the discounting in the legacy or the core services, which I think is good.  

We think the sales of the next gen, which are obviously much more profitable, are doing well. We are seeing some more increased competition on what I call the next generation, but I think we would say, I'd use the word "encouraged" by the stabilization and the pricing in total, and I think you've seen over the past that where MCI competed with AT&T, obviously, did well and I think we'll continue to do well from a pricing perspective next to those competitors.  

DAVID BARDEN: Great. Thanks for that.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, David. Operator, next question, please?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you very much. Good morning. Thanks for the additional FiOS disclosure this quarter. It's very helpful.  

You said that speed wins in the broadband wars, it looks like you're at about 10% of your homes have FiOS data available to them now. Can you talk about the rest of the homes, the ones that have DSL or will be getting FiOS sort of two, three, four years from now? Where are we in terms of the speeds that are available and how do you bridge the gap from today to when they get the FiOS product?  

And can you also just on the directories come back to your thoughts on spin versus sale and on timing of that? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Simon on the issue of DSL, remember that our longer term plan on FiOS is to perhaps cover between 60 and 70% of the lines and we do that over a several year period. We're also, obviously, putting more fiber in the plant so we're able to squeeze a little bit more capacity out of DSL.  

The way I see it from an operating standpoint is over the course of the next three or four or five years technologically we'll see some improvements that will probably let us, for the same spend, cover more of our lines with respect to the FiOS coverage because there's going to be technological improvements over the course of the next three, four, five years. And so the short answer to your question is that we'll improve DSL the plant so we'll get speeds closer to 3-meg and 6-meg and then we'll be able to further penetrate with technological improvements in the FiOS build, so to me, there's not a big gap here.  

The real trick is that with speed, customers will be demanding more speed and I believe that we'll see really big upticks in FiOS and if we can actually accelerate beyond what our business model metrics are for FiOS it gives us a chance to accelerate that where it would be appropriate to do that.  

On the spin versus sale on VIS, there really isn't anything to report. I think Doreen and her team and John Diercksen and his team are working through this and our assumptions all along was that we believe there's at least, as it's been explained to me and what we told the Board, is that a spin is probably the more financially prudent move for us to make, but we have not stopped looking at whether or not a sale would be appropriate.  

If there's some transaction that somebody can invent that would make it worthwhile for us to reconsider that we would, but we started down the path of a spin, we expect to finish it by the end of the year, but we'll always keep an open mind as to other forms, but our bias is that we think the spin is probably going to be that the format that we sort of move ahead with this transaction.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Simon. Operator, I'd like to turn the call over now to Ivan Seidenberg for some concluding remarks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Thanks, everyone, for taking the time this morning. I just have maybe a few points.  

Hopefully, that when you remember the first quarter conference call that we had, we talked about changing the perspective of our Company which was one of really focusing on organic growth, improving revenues, expanding margins and generating cash flow. It's always been an issue for us as people look at our Company as to whether or not the broadband build-out was chewing up so much capital that it was distracting from generating significant value long-term.  

We see this quarter as kind of a little pivot. What we see is contributions in different ways from all three of our network-based businesses, clearly superior performance in wireless which builds off of all of the investments and distribution and culture and product innovations they have, but also really shows the power of the EV-DO network and all of the innovation that comes from all of the new handsets.  

More than half the handsets out there are data equipped at this point and you just saw all of the significant announcements we made in the last couple days with the new Chocolate phone, which is the hottest selling item in Europe, which we're clear will be a very hot seller here in the next several months for us.  

If you look at Business as Doreen said, we're very encouraged by the fact that we're able to see some sequential growth. We're taking all the costs out, extracting the synergies, improving the systems but at the same time, in the merger transaction, we want our people to really focus on generating new growth for the business which I expect to continue on track and continue to do better as we go out into the end of this year and into '07.  

In the Telco, if there was one point on the call I probably would have liked to spend another second or two on, it would be the fact that yes, we had year-over-year revenue decline and yes, we saw continued substitution of access lines for new technology but the two counters to that is we had probably the strongest expense control we've had in a while, and if you basically take away the dilution that comes from FiOS, we had very good performance in terms of maintaining EBITDA margins in the rest of the business.  

So our business model now begins to look clear and that we'll take the costs out to keep the margins flat and as FiOS continues to get healthy, you can see that we returned the Telco portion of the business to a business model that when you extrapolate out all the trends that we begin to see here, that we feel comfortable that we are in a position over the next several months to show good value creation.  

I think Doreen mentioned that over the next four to six weeks or so we'll invite several of you in for briefings and we'll have discussions about FiOS and give you even more color about how the project is going. So I think we're at a point, second quarter '06, where both our experience set and our confidence level is such that we're in a position to share a lot more of the historical information about it which will give you a chance to understand how the business scales as we go forward.  

On the corporate side, we are buying back shares. We exceeded our annual target. We'll continue the program.  

We're working on the VIS spin and the international sales, so we feel we're in a really good position as we head into the second half of the year and into 2007 to figure out really clever ways and very innovative ways to drive value for the shareholder. So for us, this is not the usual quarter because we see this as a pivot in that we can look ahead and see a lot more daylight than we've seen in the past couple of quarters. So thank you very much.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Ivan, and thank you everybody, for joining our call today. That concludes our second quarter earnings release call. Thank you.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060815e281000p4
  


 HD
 Q1  2006  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,569 words
   PD
2 May 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon first quarter 2006 earnings conference call.  

At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President Investor Relations of Verizon.  

RON LATAILLE, SVP INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first quarter 2006 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning.  

I'm Ron Lataille. With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO, and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer.  

Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are on the Investor Relations Web site. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay you can do so from our Web site.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained within this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings which are on our Web site.  

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules.  

As required by these rules, we have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on the same Web page as our presentation slides. You should also be advised that information about our opening balance sheet adjustments as a result of the MCI merger transaction will be part of our 10-Q.  

Before turning the call over to Doreen for her review of our results I'd like to cover the differences between reported and adjusted earnings.  

Reported earnings per diluted share for the first quarter 2006 were $0.56. On an adjusted basis, before the effects of special items, EPS was $0.60.  

The special items that make up the $0.04 difference between reported and adjusted EPS are discussed in our earnings release and provided in reconciliation tables in the investor quarterly bulletin.  

Briefly, there are four special items each of which represents a $0.01 charge to earnings which we are excluding from adjusted results: After-tax charges of $16 million associated with the redemption of the former MCI notes; $28 million of after-tax charges for relocation and other costs related to our move to the Verizon Center; $35 million after-tax for merger integration costs, primarily rebranding. And lastly, a $42 million cumulative effect of a change in accounting for share-based compensation payments.  

As part of the acquisition of MCI we established an opening balance sheet value associated with intangible assets, mainly customer lists which are amortized on a monthly basis. Annualized, this will result in approximately $210 million of expense, or about $52 million per quarter.  

Consistent with our past practices we will not be excluding the effects of this amortization from our adjusted results.  

With that, I will now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Thanks, Ron, and good morning everyone.  

Let me summarize our first quarter by saying that across all our operations we have never been more focused on executing our strategies and delivering results. Our financial performance for the quarter was on target with our expectations.  

Adjusted EPS was $0.60. We generated solid cash flows and our integration efforts to date are going well with targeted synergy savings ahead of plan.  

As I previously told you, 2006 quarterly earnings would not be spread evenly throughout the year. We expected the first quarter to be the lowest with earnings ramping more in the second half of this year for two principal reasons: Expected improvements in Verizon Business and increased synergy savings.  

We reported strong operating metrics in key growth areas, namely wireless and broadband. Along with our operating focus, we continue to increase our flexibility in returning value to our owners.  

The Verizon Information Services divestiture is on schedule to be completed this year.  

In early April we entered into definitive agreements to sell our remaining Latin American asset for approximately $3.7 billion. And we repurchased about 400 million of stock during the quarter as part of the 1 billion we intend to buy back this year.  

Let's look at some of the details. Our consolidated revenues for the first quarter were 22.7 billion. Revenues in the first quarter last year were 18 billion.  

On a pro forma basis, which adds the former MCI results to 2005 and helps put results on a comparable basis for full quarter, revenues would be 23 billion this quarter compared to 22.3 billion a year ago, or 3.1% growth. This increase was driven primarily by growth in wireless, broadband, and data services.  

I would also note that international revenues increased this quarter primarily due to the sale of publication rights at TRTC. This sale, which amounted to 167 million, recognized royalties we would have received in future periods.  

These increases were offset by expected declines in legacy MCI local and long-distance revenues, expected lower revenues from enterprise business voice services, international wholesale revenues decline due to margin management programs which were designed to improve profitability, and the loss of revenues from discontinued operations of our logistics business.  

Next, let's take a look at cash expenses, operating income, and margins excluding special items. For purposes of this discussion, I'm also excluding net pensions and OPEB costs.  

Adjusted cash expenses were 14.6 billion this quarter compared with 10.9 billion last year. On a pro forma basis adjusted cash expenses were 14.8 billion compared with 14.7 billion last year, an increase of .8%.  

Increase in wireless cash expenses due to growth were offset in large part by decreases in wireline. Adjusted operating income of 4.4 billion is 694 million higher than a year ago.  

Operating income margins were 19.2% this quarter compared with 20.4% in the first quarter last year. On a pro forma basis adjusted operating income would have been 4.4 billion this quarter versus 3.8 billion last year, an increase of 531 million, or 13.9%.  

Operating income margins would have been 19%, a 180 basis point improvement over 17.2% margins a year ago.  

Slide 6 highlights our cash flows, debt and capital expenditures. We continue to generate very strong cash flows with 6.1 billion in the first quarter, which is 2.1 billion higher than first quarter last year.  

This large increase is the result of several factors. First quarter last year included higher dividend distributions to Vodafone.  

Last year we made higher pension contributions during the first quarter, and in addition, we paid income taxes during the first quarter of 2005 related to the sale of our Canadian assets.  

Capital spending was 4.1 billion in first quarter, of which 2.4 billion is wireline and 1.6 billion is wireless. The 472 million year-over-year increase is due primarily to the inclusion of MCI this quarter.  

Debt increased to 43.1 billion primarily as a result of additional debt assumed in the MCI acquisition. During the quarter, we redeemed the MCI debt which will result in interest expense savings of approximately 190 million in 2006.  

Net debt is 41.8 billion at the end of the quarter compared with 38.2 billion at the end of the year. Lastly, our credit metrics remain strong.  

Let's move to wireline. Results are pretty much as expected for revenues and margins.  

As I said earlier, we expect to see improvements in these areas as we move through the year. On Slide 7, you can see continued customer growth, particularly in broadband and Freedom packages.  

We continue to make great progress in broadband. In the last six months, we have added 1.2 million broadband customers, which was industry-leading.  

With less than 15% penetration of retail access lines, we see lots of headroom for more and more broadband customer growth. When you look at the trend of Revenue Generating Units, or RGUs, that is the combination of retail, residential access lines, broadband connections, and video subscribers, we have seen improvement over the last two quarters.  

We have taken some specific steps and established targets to accelerate improvement particularly in the consumer market. For example, we introduced new Freedom plans and pricing to respond to the competitive marketplace.  

As a result, we saw a significant increase in Freedom customers. We signed up about 1.6 million new Freedom customers in the last 12 months and about half of these in the past quarter alone.  

In addition to stimulating new customer subscriptions, this action has also helped customer retention and increased traditional in-region long distance subscriber counts. We have added 346,000 new LD lines this quarter. This does not include any of the former MCI LD lines.  

Even with these actions consumer ARPU for legacy Verizon was still up 2% year-over-year and down only about 1% sequentially. We saw some improvement in the retail residential line losses in the first quarter.  

We have seen two quarters in a row in which broadband net adds have exceeded the declines in lines. We're confident these steps and some additional actions we have planned will result in stronger consumer metrics.  

Let's take a look at wireline revenues. Revenues for the first quarter were 12.5 billion. In the same quarter last year revenues were 9.4 billion.  

On a pro forma basis revenues would be 12.7 billion this quarter compared with 13.6 billion a year ago, or a decline of 6.8%.  

Let's take a look at wireline revenues by market. The consumer market includes Verizon's local, LD, DSL, FiOS data and video, and the former MCI consumer local and LD businesses.  

Revenues for the first quarter totaled 4.3 billion compared with 3.8 billion last year. On a pro forma basis revenues declined 280 million, or 6.1%.  

As expected, a large portion of this decline relates to legacy MCI local and long distance business. From a strategic perspective we have no intentions to actively retain these out of region customers, and as expected, traditional voice products also declined.  

These reductions were offset in part by revenues from broadband which increased significantly compared with the first quarter of 2005.  

The former MCI mass-market revenue declined 22%. In the small and medium-sized business market, revenues totaled 1.4 billion in the first quarter. On a pro forma basis revenue growth was flat.  

The improvement in business DSL and Freedom packages that we saw this quarter should help customer retention and provide opportunities for growth in the future quarters.  

Looking at enterprise business, which includes the domestic retail enterprise customers of both MCI and Verizon, revenues were 3.4 billion for the first quarter of this year. On a pro forma basis revenues were down about 5. 4%.  

As expected, traditional voice and non-IP circuit switch data services have declined, although we are seeing some very early positive signs of growth in certain strategic products such as managed network data services and other IP-related services.  

Wholesale revenues, which include former Verizon wholesale carrier and local MCI wholesale, were 2.1 billion in the first quarter. On a pro forma basis, revenues were down 3.5% due primarily to declines in local wholesale as well as volume declines in leasing long haul capacity.  

Data is a growing percentage of our overall wireline revenues now standing at approximately 30% of total. Data revenues totaled 3.9 billion in the first quarter 2006 of which 3.6 billion is data transport.  

On a pro forma basis data revenues were up 4% as we continue to see growing demand for high cap, high-speed data circuits. With Verizon Business data revenues totaled more than 2.4 billion, and approximately 30% of this revenue is IP-related.  

Let's take a look at wireline cash expense and operating income margin excluding special items. Once again, for the purposes of this discussion, I'm also excluding net pensions and OPEB costs.  

On a pro forma basis, cash expenses were 583 million, or 6.2% less than a year ago. Reductions in access costs contributed to this decline due to lower volume, a more favorable mix for international and wholesale, and an increase in on-net traffic. In fact, our plans are to reduce access costs this year by 1 billion.  

There are a number of other factors contributing to the decline in expenses. A headcount reduction of about 6,000, lower contract services particularly in the IT area, ramping automation and self-service initiatives, and volume reductions in former MCI local and long distance business.  

FiOS expenses increased in the quarter. FiOS represented $0.06 of EPS dilution this quarter. Traditional telco margins increased this quarter compared with fourth quarter last year.  

We see significant opportunities for additional cost savings in addition to merger synergies, and we are confident that the wireline margins will expand as we go through the year.  

We officially launched Verizon Business at the end of January and we've seen a fast operational start. Our integration efforts are going well with targeted synergy savings ahead of plan. In fact, we realized about 50 million in synergies in the first quarter.  

We expect to see a significant ramp-up in synergies in the second half of 2006, particularly as we complete the migration of off network voice and IP traffic on to Verizon's network. This process is well underway already. You can see the first half/second half targets on Chart 12.  

As far as force reduction efforts are concerned we are ahead of plan at the end of first quarter. We are at about one-third of our total force reduction target for the year.  

Most of this head count came off the payroll at the end of March so we'll see related cost savings in the second quarter. I remain confident that we will achieve the 550 million of targeted synergies for the full year.  

Most of our integration costs incurred to date have been for rebranding, which I'm sure you have seen over the last couple of months. We also incurred some integration costs for systems integration initiatives which are progressing well and are on track.  

We expect to see cost savings from system integration activities later this year. We are aggressively interconnecting the Verizon and MCI enterprise networks.  

We recently announced that we have the largest ultra long haul network in the United States.  

We also have an expansive global presence. Verizon Business now operates the world's largest wholly owned facilities-based global network.  

As far as market opportunities, both global and domestic, we see continued demand for IP-based applications, managed services and wireless integration driving growth potential. Our focus is to increase revenues from strategic services which include private IP, IP VPN, managed security, hosting, managed data network, and other Internet services.  

As you can see on Slide 13, revenues from these services totaled 890 million in the first quarter, representing an increase of about 18% year-over-year. We intend to lead the shift to IP services and are out front continuing to build momentum in this area.  

During the quarter we launched an integrated wireless and wireline offering for business customers that combines the power of the nation's most reliable wireless network and the Verizon Business IP network.  

We expanded ethernet and wireless EvDO to private IP services. And we have enhanced our voice portfolio introducing more choice and flexibility.  

We also intend to capitalize on growth opportunities by focusing on growing market share penetration in the managed security and hosting market. Success through continued growth in these areas is vital to offsetting expected declines from our traditional core business.  

It's becoming increasingly clear that customers want higher bandwidth and higher speeds. As you know, our long-term strategy for meeting these bandwidth requirements is fiber-to-the-premise and our investment dollars are focused on this initiative.  

We continue to see a strong and growing customer response to our FiOS data product offerings. Looking at the penetration rates for FiOS data on 5/14, we are ahead of plan.  

We are seeing very good customer acceptance and consistent monthly penetration gains. In markets where we have been selling FiOS data for at least six months, the average penetration at the six-month mark for each was 9%.  

The corresponding penetration rates at the 9 and 12-month mark are 12% and 17% respectively. These markets are spread throughout our footprint and compete with all the major cable players.  

These early penetration rates indicate that we are well on our way to achieving our goal of 30% penetration in five years.  

In video, we have acquired 57 franchises to date and are open for sale in select markets in seven different states. We are seeing great initial acceptance by customers across our whole footprint, particularly in the more mature data market.  

We have now achieved a 12% penetration in Texas, 10% in Florida, and 9% in Virginia, quite impressive numbers. In Temple Terrace, Florida, we have 16% penetration. In Herndon, Virginia, it is 10% in less than four months time. In Massapequa Park on Long Island we have achieved 6.5% in just three-months time.  

More than 60% of our video customers have selected advanced set-top boxes with either digital video recorders, high definition, or both. This is a good indication of future potential as it gives these customers the capability to fully participate in our advanced service offerings.  

Virtually all of our video customers choose the digital package. Obviously, a large percentage of our video customers were already very satisfied FiOS data users anxious to take all three services from us, voice, data and video.  

Just as important is the great pull-through on FiOS data we are seeing as customers decide to take our video service. One out of every two new to FiOS video subscribers also make the decision to get all three services from us when they place their order.  

As a result, approximately 80% of our video customers are triple-play customers. We are experiencing very low churn with these customers.  

In addition, we benchmark quite well in terms of ARPU. As we move forward we expect to continually enhance our video product and differentiate it even more with converged capabilities, so we're off to a strong start.  

Let's move now to Wireless.  

Verizon Wireless continues to surpass its own industry performance milestones with record net adds and profitability for a first quarter and the lowest churn ever recorded by a major carrier. This was the 15th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year revenue growth.  

The eighth consecutive quarter that the Company added more than 1.5 million customers, the fifth consecutive quarter of EBITDA margins of greater than 40%, and 13 consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth in gross adds.  

Verizon Wireless added 1.7 million net new customers in the first quarter 2006. More than 1.6 million of these were retail. Only 59,000 were reseller customers.  

We posted more retail net adds than any other carrier, which means more people buy the Verizon brand than any other. We now have 53 million customers nationwide, an increase of 16.7% since the first quarter last year.  

We have a high quality customer base with about 96% retail and only 4% reseller. We are the fastest growing U.S. wireless company in terms of net adds with 7.6 million new customers in the last 12 months alone.  

We continued to set records for low churn, a key measure of customer loyalty, with total monthly churn of 1.18% for the first quarter 2006. The lowest in the Company's history and the lowest ever in the wireless industry.  

Churn among the Company's retail post-paid customers was exceptional at only .92%, another company and industry record. These results show that it really is the network and our award winning call quality, reliability, and the overall best experience in wireless that attracts and retains customers.  

The strength of the Wireless brand in the marketplace is driven by our premier wireless network. The best proof point for network reliability is churn.  

Slide 18 shows our very strong revenue growth trends over the past five quarters.  

Total revenues grew 18.8%. Service revenue was up 1.1 billion, or 16% compared with first quarter last year, driven by increasing data usage and the high quality customer profile of new adds. As I said, most are retail net adds.  

Service ARPU was $48.67, down only .7% versus last year as compared with a 1.9% year-over-year decline in the fourth quarter.  

Moving to wireless data.  

Data revenue accounted for nearly 11.5% of first quarter service revenue. Data contributed $5.58 of ARPU, up from $4.85 last quarter. Very strong sequential growth.  

More than half of our retail customers are data users, up 47% since this time a year ago. Our data usage results for the first quarter illustrate how popular our data services are: 9.6 billion text messages, 171 million picture and video messages, and nearly 45 million downloads of games, ring tones, and ring back tones.  

The key to our success in wireless data is our commitment to investing in the network. Verizon Wireless was the first carrier to build a nationwide wireless broadband network, and we have the most experience in delivering broadband services.  

Our EvDO network gives us extensive broadband coverage coast to coast. We continue to see strong uptake from business customers on broadband access cards and PDAs.  

Embedded laptops from major manufacturers are also contributing to the steady growth in broadband usage.  

Our superior broadband network enables product innovation for consumers as well. Examples of this innovation are V CAST, the first consumer wireless multimedia service, and V CASTMusic, the world's most comprehensive wireless music service.  

Customers can transfer their own music to their phones at no charge, download directly to their phones or PC, and identify music while it's playing. We now have a music library of one million songs and growing.  

We're really just at the beginning of the wireless broadband revolution, and we have the network and products to take significant advantage of this growth trend.  

Of course, growth is only part of the Verizon Wireless story. We continue to grow with increasing profitability as our operating income margin for the first quarter was 24%.  

Quarterly EBITDA margins were 44.5%, up from 41% in the first quarter last year. Our EBITDA was 3 billion or more for each of the last four quarters.  

Our margin expansion is organic. It's driven by our revenue growth, customer mix, and economies of scale.  

Cash expense per subscriber remained low at just under $27, down 6.6% from one year ago.  

Verizon Wireless continues to be the industry leader in cost efficiency. Our low-cost structure is the result of many efficiencies in the business, including but not limited to our distribution channel mix.  

During the first quarter, about 73% of our retail gross adds came from our direct distribution channels. Despite not doing business with Radio Shack, gross adds increased to 3.5 million, which is 120,000 higher than first quarter a year ago.  

We have found that customers who buy through our direct channels have lower churn. They also come to our stores for service and upgrades. Unlike customers from resellers, or MV&Os, these customers, and those from our indirect channel, which I'll talk about next, are our customers.  

They are buying the Verizon Wireless brand. We have a relationship with them, a relationship that we impact directly and work hard to preserve.  

At the same time, we continue to expand and diversify our indirect distribution channel which includes individual agents and national retailers such as Costco and Best Buy. During the first quarter, we also added Wal-Mart to our distribution mix to sell our prepaid product.  

To date we have more than 12,000 total doors in our indirect channel with a diversified mix that is working quite well.  

Before leaving the Wireless review, let me wrap up by saying, it is obvious that we have built significant momentum and continue to generate strong growth and profitability.  

We have the most loyal customer base in the industry, the lowest churn in the industry, and a very high percentage of our customers on one or two-year contracts, an indicator of the quality of our customer base. And we continue to introduce innovative products and services for our customers.  

In closing, I'd say the three headlines for the quarter are Wireless continues to surpass its own milestones for growth, profitability, and customer churn, reinforcing its industry lead.  

The transformation to broadband continues with another strong quarter of customer acceptance of both DSL and FiOS products. And the Verizon Business transition and integration plans are on track and off to a good start.  

On the cost side we continue to see significant opportunities to drive margin expansion.  

Our Verizon services organization, which we mentioned to you last quarter, has identified a number of cost saving initiatives that span the entire business. Examples include call center consolidation, strategic sourcing, fleet operations, transportation, real estate, and IT systems work.  

The Information Services divestiture is still on track to happen this calendar year. No further information as far as structure goes but this will be forthcoming soon.  

The sales of our Latin America assets are proceeding, and we remain committed to our previously announced 1 billion share repurchase program for 2006. We are well on our way toward that goal, having repurchased 400 million to date.  

Thanks for your attention. Ron, I'll turn it back to you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thank you. Operator, we're now ready for questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your first question is from John Hodulik of UBS. Please go ahead, sir.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thanks. Good morning, Doreen.  

Two things, first on the wireless front, the margins 44.5%, I think in the past you've talked to '06 numbers in the low to mid-40s. Coming off almost 47% in the fourth quarter does it make sense now to talk about mid to maybe upper 40s going forward in the wireless business?  

And then switching over to the consumer side you made a couple of moves to improve the, I'd say the stickiness of the products there, first with the reduction in price in the Freedom plans. How far through the base are we there in terms of getting those prices down to what would be considered something on par with what you're seeing from the cable industry?  

And second of all, the increase in speeds on the FiOS data service, yesterday I heard just a little bit about the thought process behind that move.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. Let me see if I can take them in order.  

If I start with the Wireless margins I think if you go back we're sort of five quarters consecutive quarters over the 40% level, I'm certainly comfortable that we'll continue there. I think what I said last time and I'm going to stay with it, is that in a high growth, which we continue to be a high growth environment, you're still going to see sort of, you know, low 40s, you know, what number that is exactly but low 40s. If you went to a slower growth I think you could see that mar margin kick up over 45 or so, but we will be in the high growth area for a while.  

If I move to the Freedom question, I think we're probably where we need to be with Freedom pricing right now. We're pretty comfortable. We did see the effect of the stickiness. I don't think you'll see us do much more with pricing on the Freedom side of the equation.  

And I think on the move that you saw yesterday, primarily in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut on speed, I think we're responding. You've probably seen that we've reorganized a little bit, much more regional, and have laid out the organization that way.  

I think you'll see more regional pricing from us or speeds and I think it's really just the competing with our competitors in a certain area that we change the speeds.  

JOHN HODULIK: Thanks.  

RON LATAILLE: Next question Operator.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Jeffrey Halpern of Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead with your question.  

JEFFREY HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Thanks, guys. Good morning Doreen and Ron.  

First, I just want to do a thank you to Dominic for all the work he's done over the last seven years with our team at least and to wish him a lot of luck in his new role internally.  

As for my questions on wireless I was hoping you could discuss -- I know you can't discuss the status of your discussions with Vodafone about a potential buy-in but I was hoping you could articulate the areas you see as holding the greatest potential source of synergy if you owned Verizon Wireless outright.  

And then secondly on FiOS, you obviously gave a lot more incremental detail on your deployment and the penetration levels you're seeing. I was hoping maybe you could discuss some of the areas of operational efficiency that you're also seeing.  

For example, on Slide 11 you mentioned incremental savings from automation and self-service. Did that yet include the benefits of customer self-provisioning on FiOS? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.: Jeff, Ivan here.  

On the wireless question, you asked two questions about wireless on the Vodafone side. I think the first issue, as you can see, we had extraordinarily strong performance in wireless. We still remain interested in purchasing the 45% Vodafone with Verizon Wireless.  

Vodafone is fully aware of our views of this and fully aware of how we think about this particular issue. There's no new news to report. The decision is really more in their court at this point.  

You asked about potential synergies of owning the whole thing. Remember, in this case, in the short-term what we would say, it's a trade-off of the extraordinary earnings capacity of the Company basically swapping since we would do this mostly on a cash basis, is swapping debt for earnings, and we think that's financially attractive.  

In the longer term, we think that wireless markets will regionalize a lot more than they are now, and even Vodafone's signaled that with its recent reorganization. When you think out over two, three, four, five years, what you have is the issue of convergence which is products and services between Wireless and Verizon Business, you see consumer plays between Wireless and FiOS. You see opportunities for all sorts of bundling.  

So I think in the longer term the synergies will come with more product and being a lot more responsive to the convergence of software, consumer electronics, and carrier services that will give us the chance to develop a much stronger presence in the marketplace.  

And on the cost side, I don't think there's much more we can do. I think that the Vodafone and we have done just about everything that we should be doing in the business, so really in the longer term owning 100% of the asset will make us a lot more competitive regionally, the same way that global wireless markets are beginning to evolve across the globe.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Jeff, by the way, thanks for the kind words on Dominic. We certainly agree. And I know we've gotten that comment from lots of folks out there.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: We gave him a much harder job.  

DOREEN TOBEN: But I think on the cost side of the FiOS equation, the savings, most of what we're seeing is still anecdotal. We are certainly very pleased with what we're seeing.  

We are not yet into self-provisioning, however, you've probably seen the customer satisfaction levels are incredible, both whether it's data or video in the product. The churn is extremely low, but as for as the cost at this point, still anecdotal, and we'll get more to you in the future.  

JEFFREY HALPERN: Great. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Jeff. Next question, Operator.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Mike McCormack of Bear Stearns. Please go ahead with your question.  

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR, STEARNS & COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, guys.  

Maybe just a quick update on what's happening at MCI. The speed growth looked maybe a little bit weaker than the peers, but maybe you can break it down for us between the legacy telco versus MCI. And then within MCI can you give us a sense for how quickly you think mass-market revenue is going to decline?  

Secondly, the competition, with respect to the BellSouth AT&T transaction, does that change your competitive positioning out of region? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

On the legacy and telco versus MCI, I'm not going to go into like performance on each of those. It's extremely difficult.  

If you think about it, what we've done on our ledgers is literally taken people and products and moved to both. So we really don't have any more clean -- here's what MCI was, here's what telco was, from that perspective.  

I think if you competitively benchmark the enterprise business I think we've done better than maybe some of the others, and certainly better than we've seen in the past but that is a combination of both the old Verizon enterprise as well as the MCI.  

Mass-market decline, I don't know that we have got a great view of where it's going. On the outer region piece as I mentioned in my script, we're not really spending a lot of time with the outer region piece so we expect that that will continue to decline.  

On the in-region piece, where it makes sense, we will move those customers and go after them to move them to retail customers, but you won't see much focus on the out of region customers and you will continue to see certainly a decline.  

And I think, Ivan, do you want to do the competition one?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Mike, on the issue of the BellSouth AT&T, the way we would look at it is they're certainly an important and formidable and obviously the number one player in the market.  

The way we look at this is that so much of the data market is East of Denver, and we also look at a couple of things. We have a superior wireless proposition, so you balance that with VSI business, we're in very good position.  

We have superior position in a lot of the enterprise accounts with respect to Federal Government, state government, and the big accounts. MCI had previously a superior position in the international. So we will capitalize on all of that as we go forward.  

Where T and BellSouth, when you put them together, they probably have some opportunity on the access side to reduce costs, so I think the competition we see there is more on the cost side than it would be on the growth side. So I think we have significant opportunity on the growth side.  

And on the cost side we'll just have to work through how to make the critical mass we have, which is pretty significant, work better. In the first quarter you saw, as Doreen reported, we had a significant reduction in controllable expense on the part of Verizon Business, and we think we have a lot of headroom to continue to drive that down as we go forward.  

So you should look for to us to think of ourselves as the higher growth, and we'll maintain our presence on the cost side by continuing to improve from where we are.  

MIKE MCCORMACK: Great. Thanks, Ivan.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Mike. Next question, Operator.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from David Barden of Banc of America Securities. Please go ahead with your question.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. A couple of questions.  

First, I just want to be clear if I can on this issue, Ron, you mentioned earlier. You're not stripping out the amortization of customer lists from your earnings reporting, so if we wanted to do apples and apples comparisons we'd have to add that roughly nickel of earnings back into the numbers to make it comparable with some of the other reporting that's going on. Just wanted to clarify that.  

DOREEN TOBEN: You could do it either way, David. You could add it back to ours or take it out of the other. Either way works.  

DAVID BARDEN: Okay. Thanks. The transitive property.  

The second question was, obviously great success in the post-pay market to this point in time. Are you at all concerned or do you have -- what's your appetite for a strategy for the pre-pay market?  

Sounds like a lot of people are really trying to mine that opportunity. Do you feel like you're letting an opportunity slip by by not being more aggressive on that front, and kind of what's your picture strategically for that market over the rest of the year?  

And then last, just on the FiOS business, could you speak to the conversion rate from old DSL customers to new FiOS customers? Thanks a lot.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I can start on this. You want to take this?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, you go.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: When you say what's the appetite, first of all, we do have some fairly aggressive projects going on within the reseller market with Amp'd, right, so I think we're looking at that but I just think they have to be careful what Kool-Ade we're drinking here. I think, in our view, we have an extraordinarily powerful engine to attract high quality customers on the retail post-pay, we see no reason why we shouldn't continue to do that and we don't want to lose our focus on that.  

The resell and the pre-pay markets, I'm not suggest they aren't good customers but they are higher churn and lower in the long-term margin customers. So the issue is, we want to work our way through that. I think we feel good about where we are with our two trials.  

And then, of course, we have significant, as Doreen pointed out in her remarks, significant activity going on in the distribution channel. So in the longer term what we want to make sure is we're in the right position to vertically grow our business, so the big change that we would like people to look at in this quarter is to see what share we took of revenues.  

And that what you can see is in that instead of focusing on customer acquisitions, which we have done well on and will continue to do well on, we see now all of the intellectual property that's been built into our business is now starting to produce a little bit of a break-away on taking revenue share.  

DOREEN TOBEN: On the DSL question, it's just under a third conversions of DSL to FiOS.  

DAVID BARDEN: Great, guys. Thanks a lot.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Dave. Next question, Operator.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great. Thanks very much.  

Doreen, could you give us an update on expectation for FiOS dilution for the rest of the year and are we still looking at six million homes passed at the end of the year, and also any comments on the upcoming spectrum auctions? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I can do that. I don't think there's any change, Simon, on either of the first two numbers. So there's no change, right?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, we had said last time it's about 25 to $0.30, so it's around $0.06. Might ramp up a tad in the second half of the year on the [inaudible] solutions.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Simon, on the issue of the SEC's auction, we are evaluating our options, and what I'm told is that you have to file an application in a few weeks and then the bidding doesn't start until June. So we have a whole month here to sort of organize our thinking of it, and we'll -- as soon as we figure it out and decide we'll let you know.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Also the six million hasn't changed. I think I used the number in the text where we are, so we're in good shape for the six million.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Simon. Next question, Operator.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Timothy Horan of CIBC World Markets. Please go ahead with your question.  

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Thanks. Good quarter.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hey, Tim.  

TIMOTHY HORAN: Good morning, Doreen. Two questions.  

One, a lot of emerging carriers are saying they're seeing kind of a sea change in the wholesale IP market both enterprise, I guess, and wholesale. Are you guys seeing the same thing out there in terms of pricing, maybe volumes, any change there?  

And then Ivan, on the Vodafone issue, I think one of the concerns had been paying taxes on any sale historically. Is it that still a concern, and is there any other steps you can take maybe having a public traded wireless stock that they could spin out to shareholders or anything else to get around that? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, I don't want to get in over my head here, but on the first question about wholesale IP and a sea change, here's the way I think we would look at that. The way we look at the market and what our people are telling us is that there's tremendous activity out there right now for next-generation products, new products and services, in all these managed network services, and in that area, we feel that there's some stability and rationality to how we're bidding and how we see the market accepting these bids.  

With respect to conversions and all these other renewals and everything else, we're not sure that we're seeing the same sea change. Maybe others have, but we talk to the same customers they do. We're not sure of that.  

So I think the quicker we get to the next sort of next sort of generation products, that's where we're seeing the stability come in, and that's why we're so focused on the growth areas in this market. Overall, I think that we're better off today after the consolidation with the new AT&T and the consolidation for Verizon I think we're heading in the right direction, but sea change is a strong term. I think we're incrementally moving in the right direction.  

With Vodafone, the issue is that I don't think there's ever been any change in assumption that whenever a transaction would be consummated, whether it's now or two years or 20 years, it's going to be a tax bill. I don't think anybody should think that there's any way around that, and I think that's fine.  

And that's the reason why if you look at a transaction, you pay a premium on an EBITDA multiple basis, the cash flow basis that would cover some of that. I think it's part of the drill.  

By the way, I think the same -- you do get some efficiency by coupling Omnitel with the transaction, which I didn't mention before, but we're certainly willing to do that.  

I think, Tim, we are very comfortable with trying to be as efficient as we can, but I don't think we understand the structure right now that would eliminate the gains on a business that we have built in the past ten years and the gains are extraordinary. So I think it's just part of the deal. Unless, Doreen, you have --  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, I don't have anything. I don't think we would like to IPL it, we would not look to do that.  

TIMOTHY HORAN: Okay. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Tim, thanks. Operator, next question.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Michael Rollins of Citigroup. Please go ahead with your question.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Hi. Good morning.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Hi, Michael.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS: A couple of questions.  

First, back on the wireless side, as you're looking to manage revenue share in wireless can you talk about the prospects of possibly returning to growth in ARPU and how you look at those opportunities and what you think that's feasible over the next 12 to 24 months?  

And the second question is just back on the MCI side, when you talked about the integration process and laid it out you talked about a lot of work that had to be done to the network, a lot of investments that you wanted to put into the network to further integrate it. Can you talk about where we are in that process and how we should expect those integration expenses to be invested through the year? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I guess I'll take the first one.  

On the revenue, first of all, I think over the longer term, data growth, we're over 11% now, you've got 3G coming, V CAST is really just starting to really go, you've got music really starting to kick in, so I would say over the longer term you'll see a difference, but I do want to say that the most important thing that I measure is really revenue growth and margin. And to the extent that the ARPU is flat or a little bit down or a little bit up the two key metrics really is what's your revenue growth and how high is my margin.  

But having said that, data will continue to be a much bigger piece going forward.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Absolutely. When you think of all of up the upside opportunity when you lay your broadband network on top of wireless I think you're going to see tremendous vertical opportunity going forward.  

Frankly, I think as all the carriers start investing in these things, and some of them have to have a little bit of a catch-up here, but as we all start doing that I think that the whole industry will start moving in a direction of more vertical growth, and to me that's a good sign.  

On the MCI thing I guess the one point I would make is that, I think Doreen laid out the synergy plan here. I think we got off to a very fast operational start.  

We also talked about we had some significant force reductions in March which will start to show up in April, May, June and the rest of the year. We have a capital program in MCI of about a little over 1.6 billion, I guess it is, that we've said.  

We don't see, that's about the right number. It could deviate by 100 million here or there, but we're right in the right ballpark on that.  

If I may make one point, the one thing we've never said is prior to the transaction, a lot of us here had some question about what we would find once we closed the transaction, and the good news is that once we closed the transaction there's nothing that we've seen on the network side or the IT side that was different than what MCI told us. So we feel very comfortable that we have a good path on the 550 million in synergies this year and all of the other grooming and all of the other shift of minutes that we've been able to do with Verizon Wireless and Verizon Telecom.  

So I'm not sure there's anything else we could suggest other than we feel very comfortable in where we are in the process for our 2006 plan, and as we move into '07 we'll talk about that later in the year.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Mike. Operator, next question.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Jason Armstrong of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead with your question.  

JASON ARMSTRONG, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thanks. Good morning. Couple questions.  

First on video, you've obviously got some good traction with video penetration in some of the initial markets. I'm wondering if you can update us on the success base cost in the video installs, sort of how that's trending?  

Second question, just hit Vodafone one more time maybe from a different angle. I'm wondering specifically if you can talk about any sort of tax or balance sheet advantages to buying back the entire stake versus doing a transaction in pieces?  

And then finally just a housekeeping question on international. You mentioned the sale of directory publication rights in Puerto Rico, and I think associated with is was some sort of a one-time royalty step-up which impacted revenues and EBITDA. I'm just wondering if you can quantify that amount? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'll do two.  

On the internationals, in my script it was 160 million, maybe 165 revenue so that was that piece of it.  

On the video penetration, you want [inaudible] we are, on the homes passed number, probably where we said we needed to be, so we are doing extremely well there. My sense is we will probably beat the number that we had out to the street there, so real good progress.  

On the connected we are not where we need to be yet so we're making progress but certainly not there yet, however, I will make a comment for '06. The pass capital number is a much bigger number than the connected number as you would imagine, because we're passing six million homes, so there's no capital push on the budget for '06 around what we'll spend, but we need some more work to do on connected and pass is in really good shape.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: In all fairness to Vodafone, there really isn't much else to say on this. As I said earlier, we're interested in acquiring the share. It's good asset.  

The next step is really up to our partners in Verizon Wireless there, Vodafone, and they fully understand our views on this and you're right, there are probably a gazillion ways of looking at this and I can assure you we've looked at all gazillion ways, so let's just leave that sit now and we'll get back to it when it's appropriate.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, I'd like to turn the call over to Ivan Seidenberg now for some concluding remarks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Thank you always for your interest in the Company. I only have a couple of comments. I think most of your questions covered the highlights.  

As Doreen indicated, we feel we're off to a solid start in '06. We've got superior momentum in wireless.  

There's always a question that we get about the sustainability in the quarter-over-quarter build. Hopefully you see in this quarter we've added some new dimensions, a significant pickup in data revenues, terrific churn performance, which really shows the depth of our network reliability and the best network concept.  

We're really focused on lots of new products into the marketplace and taking revenue share. MCI off to a fast operational start.  

I know everybody always looks for inflection points, whatever that means, but I think we're at a point here where for the rest of the year you'll see us building momentum here on both the revenue and the margin side and the MCI transaction. We're very excited about the customer activity out there that would suggest that the market may be ready for a lot of new products and services in the space, which should bode well for the entire sector, frankly.  

On the telco side, the questions that you asked are all good ones. I'm sure you'll have more.  

The exciting thing for us is that the theory of the case is starting to be demonstrated in results that we see. There's terrific focus on speed of Internet access and speed of delivery of services. We see what the video bundle does, we see what the 15 and 30 megabit data speeds do.  

We feel that that's a terrific proposition, our goal is to scale it as fast as we can and move through the process. But bundles are great, and we think that that will do very well.  

And hopefully you noticed that while we're doing all that and we still have access line losses and we still have competitive activity, we've taken some steps with regional and local pricing as well as a very strong focus on controllable expenses in the quarter, so we're able to hold margins in the legacy Verizon telco and overall and move our business forward.  

The overall business model for us is really a focus on improving revenues throughout the yeah, improving margins throughout the year and improving cash flow throughout the year.  

We didn't talk on the call about other activities that we have in place to return value to shareholders, but we're moving along in the disposition of our three international properties they're moving along quite well. And we should start to see the fruits of that in the second quarter with perhaps one or even two of the transactions moving to closure before we announce earnings for the second quarter.  

Then we're moving along in our planning and the disposition of directory and we'll have a lot more to say to you about that during the second quarter. So we feel that we're in a very good position to show incremental improvements throughout the year.  

With that, Ron, I think that I have no further comments, and we all thank you very much for your being with us this morning.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Ivan, and thank you, everybody, for joining us this morning.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060516e252000e2
  


 HD
 Q4  2005  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,840 words
   PD
26 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [ OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS ] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Ron Lataille, Senior Vice President - Investor Relations of Verizon.  

RON LATAILLE, SVP - IR, VERIZON: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Ron Lataille. With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO; and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides are on the Investor Relations website. This call is being webcast. If you would like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.  

   TD
I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained within this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings, which are on our website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules. As required by these rules, we have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP measures on the same web page as the presentation slides. As you know, we closed our merger transaction with MCI on January 6, 2006. As such, the results we will be discussing today are of those of the Verizon stand-alone business for the fourth quarter and full year 2005.  

Before turning the call over to Doreen, I would like to direct you to some information on our reported and adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter were $0.64. On a reported basis, EPS was $0.59. For full year 2005, adjusted EPS was $2.56, representing 2% growth over $2.51 of adjusted EPS in 2004. Reported EPS was $2.65 in 2005 and $2.79 in 2004. The special items that make up the differences between reported and adjusted EPS are discussed in the earnings release and provided in reconciliation tables within our financial statements. For the fourth quarter of 2005, these items principally related to previously announced changes to management benefit plans, severance and relocation costs. With that, I will now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, EVP, CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Ron and good morning to everyone. Verizon delivered another quarter of strong operational and financial performance. Our strong fourth quarter capped the year in which we achieved some major strategic goals and strengthened our position in key growth markets. Our strategies are really starting to take hold and you can see it in our financial and operating results this quarter. As a result, we enter 2006 with excellent momentum and a business that is performing extremely well across the board.  

I'll take you through the details of our fourth quarter results but here are the headlines. Customers are responding very strongly to our products. In fact, we set industry records in both wireless and broadband net adds. More new customers than any other wireless company, Telco or cable company has posted in a single quarter. We accelerated our revenue growth at 6.7%. We made important progress in creating the growth markets of the future with our EV-DO and FiOS initiatives, which are both gaining scale and customers. We also prepared for our merger with MCI, which positions us for growth in the large business market. And we showed, once again, that we can invest in growth and still generate solid cash flows, margin and earnings growth. All in all, we are pleased with the strong finish to the year with great momentum going into a very exciting 2006.  

Now, let's take a closer look at our consolidated results, starting with revenues. On chart four, you can see our steady growth trajectory. Quarterly revenues increased by 1.2 billion or 6.7% and annual revenues grew 4.2 billion or 6%. Full year revenues were just shy of 75 billion, representing more than a 9 billion increase in three years. Our key growth areas are becoming an increasingly larger piece of our total revenues and compose nearly 60% of our fourth quarter total.  

The next chart shows the components of our revenue stream and clearly demonstrates the increasing diversification of our revenue profile. We have three network businesses: Wireless, wireline, serving residential and business customers, wireline also includes a large and very healthy wholesale business. And an enterprise business. As you know, earlier this month, we completed our acquisition of MCI, which will increase our presence in the large business market. Our growth initiatives are diversifying our revenue profile and helping to mitigate our competitive risk. We are also gaining momentum with these initiatives across the entire business. You can see for yourself on this slide. Customer connections, the combination of switched access lines, broadband connections and wireless subscribers, up 5.7%. Wireless data revenue, now a 2.2 billion annual revenue stream, up more than 100%. Wholesale data traffic volumes with double-digit growth. And an increasing appeal among residential customers for some kind of bundle or package of products from us. Another key point here is that we are seeing increasing demand for our services across the board.  

Turning to margins, we delivered our fourth straight quarter of margin growth, even as we're continuing to invest today for better growth tomorrow. Adjusted operating income margins, excluding pension and OPEB costs were 22.1% in the fourth quarter, an increase of 90 basis points sequentially and 190 basis points year-over-year. And as you know, growth initiatives initially create downward pressure on margins. Since we are committed to margin stability and ultimately to margin expansion, it is mission critical to drive other costs out of the business by increasing efficiencies and productivity throughout the entire organization. And I can assure you we never lose sight of that fact. We view driving down costs as a critical matter of financial execution, especially as we expect to continue to grow our customer base or have existing customers take multiple products and services from us. This is extremely important as we remain committed to capturing the growth opportunities that will drive future revenue and earnings growth.  

During 2005, we maintained fairly consistent quarterly earnings performance, as you can see on the top of slide seven. For the year, adjusted EPS was $2.56, representing 2% growth over 2004. While this is modest growth, I believe it demonstrates our capacity to manage cost-effectively and offset the initially dilutive effects of growth initiatives. Final solutions for the full year 2005 was worth $0.15 as compared to the $0.04 in 2004. In addition, I would point out that the net pension and OPEB expense had a $0.30 negative impact on EPS in 2005, compared to a $0.21 in 2004. So, from a bottom line perspective, we were able to preserve earnings stability, even as we made significant investments in network platforms that will fuel future revenue and earnings growth.  

Let's take a look at slide 8. 2005 was another year of strong cash generation and our balance sheet is stronger than ever, something that I'm particularly proud of. CFFO, which totaled 22 billion for the year, was strong in both the wireline and wireless business. Our 2005 capital spending was on target with previous guidance. The increase over 2004 spending reflects our focus on growth opportunities. In fact, 69% of our capital spending in 2005 was related to growth initiatives. Total debt levels were maintained in spite of the increase in capital spending and wireless spectrum purchases. Our credit metrics are the strongest they've ever been. For example, our net cash flow to debt ratios finished the year at over 50%, our best ever.  

Let's begin our segment review with wireless. Simply put, these are the best wireless quarterly results from any carrier ever. If you take a look at any of the metrics from growth through profitability to loyalty, Verizon Wireless has equaled or surpassed its own industry record results. And we continue to demonstrate that the growth engine we have built just keeps getting better with time. Net adds for the quarter were an industry record 2.05 million. Retail post-paid net adds were 1.76 million for the quarter. Total customers now stand at 51.3 million, which is 17.2% higher than last year. For the full year, we added 7.5 million customers. I think that's a number that bears repeating. We added 7.5 million customers during the year. 7.1million of whom were retail post-paid. Our success is the result of capitalizing on opportunities and leveraging our strong fundamentals and networks to capture market share. And with our commitment to quality, we are seeing very strong customer loyalty. Our customer base is about 96% retail. Total churn of 1.22% tied our previous record and our retail post-paid churn of 1.02% was also near all-time lows. These results show that it really is the network and our award-winning service that attracts and retains customers.  

Slide 10 shows our very strong revenue growth trends over the past five quarters. Total revenues grew 18.3%, reflecting the phenomenal growth that we had this quarter. Quarterly revenues have increased over $1.3 billion in just one year, which is incredible. As a matter of fact, I suggest there are very few 30 billion plus businesses that are growing revenues at this kind of pace. Service revenue was up 963 million or almost 15% compared with fourth quarter last year, driven by data usage and the good customer profile of new adds. Service ARPU was $49.36, down 1.9% year-over-year, representing about 100 basis point improvement in the year-over-year run rates from the second and third quarter. This improvement is attributable to increasing data usage as well as strong customer mix. Wireless data is an increasingly big part of the Verizon Wireless story. At 731 million, data revenue accounted for almost 10% of fourth quarter service revenues. Data contributed $4.85 of ARPU, up from $4.23 last quarter. Very strong sequential growth.  

Almost half of our retail customers are data users, up significantly from this time a year ago. And we're seeing strong uptake on Broadband Access cards and PDAs from corporate customers, thanks to our extensive EV-DO network. The key to our success in wireless data is our commitment to investing in the network. The result is a first-mover advantage which has really separated us from our competition in terms of coverage and experience in delivering broadband services. Our EV-DO network gives us, by far, the most pervasive wireless broadband coverage of any carrier in the marketplace. We now offer 24 different EV-DO broadband devices, the most of any carrier. We have six PC cards, eight PDAs and 10 handsets in the market today. We have partnerships with Dell, HP and Lenovo to embed EV-DO chips in their laptops. We also recently launched the Windows Mobile Treo device. Customers are snapping up these products because of the growing set of multimedia applications that can be delivered to a mobile device. Verizon Wireless is leading this wave, as well.  

We continue to see strong growth in V CAST and our just-launched V CAST music service has gotten rave reviews. V CAST music is unique. It is the most comprehensive mobile music service in the world. You can download full songs over-the-air to your handset and your Windows PC and you can transfer your existing collection of music downloads and CDs to your phone. The exciting thing is that we're really just at the beginning of the wireless broadband revolution. And we have the network and the products to really take advantage of this growth trend.  

Of course, growth is only part of the Verizon Wireless story. We focus on profits and growth, not one or the other, but both. And you can see on slide 12 that's what we delivered in had the fourth quarter. We continue to grow with increasing profitability as our operating income margin expanded to a record 25.8% for the quarter. Quarterly EBITDA margins were 46.8%, up 36% year-on-year with a run rate of over 3 billion in each of the last three quarters. This is the best in the industry. Our already-low cash expense per subscriber hit its lowest level ever. And all of this, while we increased retail gross adds, very impressive.  

Our low cost structure is the result of many efficiencies in the business, as well as our very balanced distribution mix. As you can see on slide 13, we have excellent cost metrics across the board. One key element is our superior distribution network, which saw 69% of our retail post-paid gross adds coming in through our direct channels in the quarter. Acquisition costs declined by 18.6%. Network costs continued to decline. Expenses per minute of use are down nearly 18%. We continue to drive customers to the most efficient means of doing business with us. The number of self-service transactions increased nearly 48% over the past year. Employee productivity increased by almost 5% as our focus on efficiency and quality in our call centers is paying off. When you're able to increase quality and decrease costs at the same time, you have the ingredients for a winning business model.  

Let me wrap up wireless by saying this was another record-breaking quarter in which we expect that Verizon Wireless has increased its lead as a top carrier in the industry. Verizon Wireless has size and scale and a superb management team and organization that is executing its business model. This model is built upon the fundamentals of the best network, excellent customer service and innovative products and services. As you can see from our results, the Verizon Wireless machine is hitting on all cylinders. We have built significant momentum and are generating growth and profitability. We have an extremely loyal customer base, very low churn and a very high percentage of our customers on one or two-year contracts and we've introduced lots of new products and services. We also enter this year with a significantly enhanced spectrum position. And we have a business culture that is driven to deliver continuous improvement quarter after quarter, year after year. Our consistent investment has created the platform for innovations that will drive our growth.  

Let's move to wireline, where we are seeing continued customer growth across the broadband, enterprise and wholesale markets. The big news is in broadband, where we now have 5.1 million customers, an increase of 1.7 million customers for the year, we added 613,000 in the fourth quarter alone. Our bundle penetration ended the year at 65%, up from 55% a year ago. And Freedom for Business packages have passed the 1 million mark, up 38% since last year. Almost half of these customers are on an annual contract. In wholesale, we also saw strong demand for DS1s and DS3s which grew by 12.5% year-over-year. All in all, we have seen steady increases in growth product penetration and we expect to see more of the same in 2006 which will help drive revenue growth in future quarters.  

Our emphasis on growth products is transforming the revenue mix in the consumer market. As we have said before, this makes the traditional access line metric much less important as a gauge of revenue growth than it used to be. As you see on slide 16, growth in revenue generating units, RGUs, which we introduced last quarter, track much more closely with revenue performance than do access lines. We did lose 426,000 retail access lines in the quarter, which is an improvement over the last two quarters and from the fourth quarter of last year. We believe that the increase in broadband subscribers, the introduction of Freedom Essentials and other marketing activities help retain and win back customers. As a matter of fact, the fourth quarter marks the first time that our broadband net adds exceeded the decline in retail residential access lines. With regard to retail business line losses, we continue to see improvements over last year, especially when we exclude dial-up port disconnects as these contracts expire. Total wholesale voice connections, both UNE-P and retail declined by 323,000 during the quarter. So, overall, the increasing use of broadband connections by our customer base is redefining the traditional view of the wireline business and creating new opportunities.  

Looking at wireline revenue trends, we did see increasing competition and technology substitution in 2005. We are responding in the marketplace with our broadband initiatives, new products and services, increased use of bundling and some pricing changes. As you can see, we were able to maintain a stable revenue base of about 9.4 billion each quarter. Although revenues were essentially flat on a sequential basis, fourth quarter revenues were down 1.8% year-on-year and full-year revenues were down 1.1%. Among the reasons which contributed to the fourth quarter and full year decline are the loss of revenues from discontinued activities. In the fourth quarter of 2005, this amounted to 127 million decrease over fourth quarter a year ago. For the full year, this represented a decline of 269 million. A large part of this decrease is from the termination of a large logistics management contract this past summer. You can expect about 80 to 100 million unfavorable effect in each of the next two quarters as a result of this issue. Another factor adversely affecting the fourth quarter comparison were revenues from our CPE business, which were lower than last year. In previous years, we saw CPE sales spike up in the fourth quarter but that did not occur this year. In the consumer market, fourth quarter revenues were down on a sequential basis and 1.1% year-over-year. For the full year, consumer revenues, which totaled 15.2 billion in 2005, were down only .4%. As I said earlier, this shows that we are mitigating the loss of revenue from access lines, with broadband, long distance and other services.  

In the fourth quarter, average monthly revenue per customer was $51.50, up 3.9% year-over-year. Wholesale revenues increased by 33 million or 1.6% on a year-over-year basis. Sequentially, revenues were essentially flat. This market includes switched access, local wholesale products like UNE-P and resale. It also includes high speed, high capacity growth products, which are driving data growth in this market. I would mention that we now have 92% of our base of UNE-P customers on commercial agreements. We are scheduled to see some UNE-P price increases in 2006, which should provide an incremental margin opportunity.  

Looking at business, revenues in the business market were 2.75 billion, down slightly on a sequential basis and down 126 million or 4.4% versus fourth quarter last year. As I mentioned before, our CPE business was part of the reason for this decline. In the highly-competitive small and medium-size business market, we have had success in retaining customers and have been actively marketing our Verizon Freedom for Business as well as DSL. Within the enterprise space, we are obviously looking forward to the upside opportunities now that the MCI merger has closed. More on this in a few minutes.  

Quarterly data revenues continue to grow, increasing 9% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for high capacity and broadband products. Data transport drove most of the quarterly growth with 9.7% higher revenue than last year. For the full year, data revenues totaled 8.5 billion, an increase of 10.5%. Importantly, data is also becoming a more significant percentage of our overall wireline revenues. Now standing at 23.4%. Between our data products for business and the growing popularity of our consumer broadband products, we are well-positioned to benefit from the ongoing expansion of the market for high-speed, high-capacity services.  

Now let's move to FiOS. We continue to see a strong and growing customer response to our FiOS data and video product offerings. Looking at the penetration rates for FiOS data, we are ahead of plan. We are seeing good customer acceptance and consistent monthly penetration gains. Last quarter, we told you that in the 35 markets where we have been actively marketing in for six months or more, average penetration was 12.4%. I want to give you an update, but in a slightly different and better way to look at our progress. In markets where we have been selling FiOS data for at least six months, the average penetration at the six-month mark for each was 9.2%. At this point, this includes more than 90 central offices. In markets where we have been selling FiOS data for at least nine months, the average penetration at the nine-month mark for each was 14%. At this point, this includes more than 35 central offices. These markets are spread throughout our footprint and compete with all the major cable players. These early penetration rates indicate that we are well on our way to achieving our goal of 30% penetration in five years.  

In video, we are seeing great initial acceptance by customers. In Keller, Texas, our first video market, we have already achieved 21% penetration in only four months. Within the last few months, we also began selling FiOS TV in some other Texas markets as well as Temple Terrace in Florida and Herndon, Virginia. While it's a bit early to give you penetration rates, we are very pleased with our initial sales and just this week, we launched video in Massapequa Park, New York and Woburn, Mass. We will also be selling services in a California market very shortly. As we move forward, we expect to continually enhance our video product and differentiate it even more with converged capabilities. So, we're off to a strong start. From a deployment standpoint, by the end of 2006, we expect to have passed a cumulative total of 6 million premises or about 20% of our households. Going forward, we expect to pass about 3 million per year. As we gain scale and connections, we will also be able to drive more costs out of the business and we also expect that technology improvement will further drive down our network costs, as well.  

Moving to our wireline margin, operating income margin, excluding pension and OPEB was 16.1% for 2005. In fact, we're targeting about a 16% margin for 2006. Of course, we normally see some variability in operating margins on a quarterly basis. The fourth quarter difference was largely train by our very high growth in DSL and FiOS deployment. I would mention that as we gain scale in DSL, we have turned the corner on EBITDA profitability, which should continue to improve and help margins going forward. Quarterly cash expenses were up 2.6% year-over-year. We continue to see significant opportunities for additional cost savings. We have many new cost initiatives, which I'll discuss in a minute, which will help stabilize telecom margin performance.  

As you would expect, we continue to be focused on improving the wireline cost base. We closely manage our force levels, balancing them with our work volumes, shifting manpower whenever possible to support the fiber initiative. Our overall wireline head count ended the year at 141,000. We are also replicating the success achieved by our Partner Solutions Group, which significantly automated wholesale orders and reduced head count and costs. Over time with higher in the fourth quarter, on both a sequential and year-over-year basis. This was a result of us having to shift manpower to deal with the inordinately high damage and repair caused by the heavy rains, mainly in the month of October. Online bill payments are up 16% as we continue to drive customers to more efficient transaction-based services and we see further opportunities for savings in the areas of real estate and call center management.  

So to sum up wireline, we are rapidly transforming this business around the customer's growing demand for broadband. We are investing in broadband capacity in our access network, developing differentiated broadband products across all segments of the market and creating new revenue opportunities in markets such as video. You see this strategy taking hold in the fourth quarter with our record-setting performance in DSL, strong performance in data and our earlier success with FiOS. In the meantime, we're holding our ground with steady revenues, stable margins and a relentless focus on costs. We're confident in our strong wireline business model. And our network will give us an unsurpassed strategic and product platform for growth in the broadband era.  

I want to spend a few minutes sharing some information about our new business unit called Verizon Business, created by the acquisition of MCI. We believe this acquisition provides us with a great opportunity to further strengthen the power of the unified Verizon brand, particularly now that we can add wireless services to the product portfolio. We have an experienced management team in place with great leaders from wireline, Verizon Wireless and MCI. We have challenged these seasoned professionals with some very aggressive integration plans and some aggressive financial targets.  

We have a lot of experience in mergers and acquisitions, both wireless and wireline, and I'm very confident in our ability to achieve the synergies. On slide 24, you see these synergy targets by year. These run rates are about 10% higher than we originally announced, primarily from realizing these savings earlier than originally forecast. The net present value of the synergies has increased from 7 to 8 billion. Network savings represent nearly half of the total, with workforce reductions and IT savings each representing about 20% of the totals we estimate at this time. One significant area for savings in the network category is third party access savings, that is, bringing more traffic on net. These savings will be realized through a combination of moving more Verizon Wireless traffic on net as well as moving our out of footprint access and long haul LD traffic to the former MCI network. In 2006, we expect these savings across Verizon to be well over 200 million. In the area of workforce reductions, we anticipate achieving a workforce reduction of about 7,000 people within a three-year period. More than half of this reduction will be from eliminating duplicate corporate staff and from the mass market business area. In the IT and systems integration area, we also see significant opportunities. As far as the transition costs needed to capture these synergies, you can see our estimated annual spread of these costs on the slides. In total, we expect to spend about 1 billion over the next three years. Integration capital spending is estimated to be between 1.6 and 1.9 billion over the same three-year period. We estimate about 550 million of that will be spent in 2006.  

We have an aggressive go-to-market plan that will introduce the new Verizon Business to the marketplace. We hope to immediately enhance the customer experience with a more integrated approach to the sale of our wireless products. You can expect us to build upon Verizon and MCI's reputation for excellent service by transforming the service experience for our customers. We have a unique approach to business service delivery, called "Customer Service Surround". Our unique brand sales office structure places our account teams closer to our customers. Similarly, the Verizon Business Customer portal will put online service and account management tools at our customer's fingertips. From at your side support to online self-service and all points in between, our objective is to deliver an unmatched customer experience, geared to a customer's personal preferences. This will be a major element of the Verizon Business difference. And I want to emphasize that we see huge opportunities for margin improvement Verizon Business.  

As we look across all three network businesses, we continue to see significant cost savings opportunities over the next several years. Verizon Services, our recently created organization to provide back office and support services across our businesses, is an example of how we intend to increase efficiencies through economies of scale and reduce duplication of efforts. We are also conducting an extensive review of our expansive real estate portfolio. We are convinced that we can capture savings and unlock value through this portfolio rationalization. Web-based customer self-service applications are also examples of ways we can increase the efficiency of our business. Our network investments are intended to grow revenues and significantly reduce maintenance and operating costs. Our fiber build is a perfect example of this. Our innovative and competitively priced products and services are increasing customer retention and helping to reduce the cost of churn. As we strive to stimulate revenue growth in all of our businesses, you can expect us to continue our relentless focus on reducing our cost structure.  

Let me give you a couple of thoughts about how we're looking at 2006. As I said at the beginning of today's discussion, we are entering 2006 with excellent momentum. Our strategies are taking hold and customers are responding to our wireless and broadband products and services at record-setting levels, helping to diversify our revenue profile. These customer successes will continue to drive revenue growth in 2006. Our capital investments also enable growth. The investments in our network will result in market share gains and revenue growth. In addition, the resulting increase scale helps improve margins, earnings and return on invested capital. We previously stated that capital spending in 2006, excluding MCI, would be between 15.4 and 15.7 billion. With MCI, "all-in" capital spending is expected to be between 17 and 17.4 billion. The 1.6 to 1.7 billion incremental spending as a result of MCI, includes about 550 million of integration capital in 2006. With the MCI merger now complete, more experience with fiber and our EV-DO plans on track, we have a high degree of confidence in the stability of our 2006 capital program. From a total telecom capital spending perspective, we see 2006 as the peak expenditure level. We are very focused on maintaining stability in our margin as we grow the business. This morning, I have shared with you some of the cost-saving opportunities we see. Related to 2006 costs, let me give you a sense for net pension and OPEB expenses. As I noted earlier, net pension OPEB costs resulted in an unfavorable EPS impact of $0.30 in 2005. In 2006, we expect this total to be about $0.04 to $0.06 worse or $0.34 to $ 0.36 in total. As you know, we've taken steps to control future post-employment costs through changes in our management plan. As far as CFFO, we see improving cash flows, which will fund future investments in our networks and return value to shareowners.  

We have set specific goals and targets for our three network businesses. All of these are focused on growth, both top and bottom line, and creating value for shareowners. Lastly, this past December, we announced our plans to divest our Verizon Information Services Directories business. We are moving full steam ahead with our bankers. We are well along in developing the necessary planning to successfully accomplish this disposition in 2006. We will provide you more information on this value-creating transaction when our exact plans become more definitive. Thanks, Ron and I will turn it back to you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks Doreen. Operator we're now ready to take some questions.  

OPERATOR: [ OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS ] David Barden, Banc of America Securities.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey, guys, good morning. [Congrats] on the quarter! Just wanted to ask a couple of questions on a couple of topics. First on the wireless side: Obviously and typically what's usually a lower margin fourth quarter, there was a big step down in CPGA, a big step down in cash costs per user. If we look ahead in '06, I was wondering if you could address some of those sustainability issues on those forces as we kind of look for where margins might wind up in the coming year. The second issue would be on the FiOS metrics that are coming out. Could you talk a little bit about whether those are being driven by conversions of existing subscribers in DSL or competitive winbacks? And then maybe the last issue would be on the directory spin. You know, whatever -- how it happens, there's going to be probably incremental borrowing capacity or cash coming into the parent company. Any early thoughts on what the intentions are to do with that incremental flexibility? Thanks a lot.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hey, David. Thanks. If I start with, I guess the first question on wireless margins. I guess what I would say is we target wireless margins in the, you know, sort of mid- to low 40s. That would be normal. To the extent that you didn't have the kind of growth, you know, you might actually kick it up a little bit. But I would think about the fact that we think there's lots more opportunity out there, there's a lot more -- at only 70% penetration, we think there's a lot more opportunity to grow, but the target sort of, you know, mid- to low 40s. On your -- the metrics, I guess, for fiber, I guess the -- the conversion rate from DSL is around 35%. Was there more with the DSL? That was it for DSL. Okay. And then Ivan, do you want to do the -- .  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VERIZON: Yes, David, on the question of use of cash with the directory divestiture, the way we think about this is, as Doreen pointed out in her opening remarks, we feel pretty good about the visibility of our -- of our spending this year, where we're going to put our capital. So, we don't see the issue of the use of cash from the directory as impacting the run rate of what we would do with organic investments in the -- in all three businesses, Wireless and Verizon Business as well as the Telco. Now, once we get a little further along into the year and we look at the form of the actual divestiture, our first focus there is to try to figure out a way to return value to shareholders using that cash. And as Doreen has talked about in the past, there are options to do lots of things, which is balance sheet improvement, reduce debt, buyback shares. So we'll -- as this unfolds during the year, we'll -- we'll take a careful look at that.  

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks, guys.  

RON LATAILLE: Operator, we're ready for the next question.  

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS Warburg  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Okay, thanks. Good morning.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hi John.  

JOHN HODULIK: Hi. A couple of questions, first on the wireline margins, you had said in the past that FiOS would -- would create dilution of about $0.14 in '05. Can you update us on that, on how that -- how that turned out here in the fourth quarter? And then looking out into -- into '06, we got the 16% EBIT premargin -- or prepension margin guidance. What kind of dilution from FiOS and potentially from the, you know, video rollouts are included in that number? And then just real quick follow-up on the DSL growth, is this kind of --- similar to David's question on wireless -- is this a sustainable number? Is it being driven by the $15 plan? And how much -- you know, if you can maybe in round numbers, are you getting a nice kick from FiOS, as well?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay, I think on the FiOS question, it was $0.04 in the third quarter, it kicked up to $0.05 in the -- in the fourth quarter. So, that was the incremental dilution. I think I did say, you know, in the text, that in '06, we sort of expect a $0.10 to, you know, $0.15 additional dilution on top of that. A lot of it based on success base, so that's sort of why the range. Yes, that would be already built into the 16% target that we're -- that we've talked about. On the DSL, I think, you know, about 50% of the net adds are coming from you know, from the 1495. However, very, very, very low migration, which is -- which is something that's good. The people are really staying with their existing higher speeds. And as far as the ability to kick up, I mean the penetration of broadband is still very low, you know, in the country at 35%. So, we do think that there's a lot more opportunity, you know, we still have all the dialup guys converting, that's a lot of what's happening with the 1495. So, we think that there is still a lot more opportunity on broadband into '06.  

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Great. Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

RON LATAILLE: Thank you, John, operator, next question.  

OPERATOR: Viktor Shvets, Deutsche Banc.  

VIKTOR SHVETS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, good morning, everybody. Thank you very much. Just looking at the dilution from media products, just following in from John's comment, how should we think about programming cost as as well as subscriber position costs in 2006? You launched a number of media markets this year and you're going to launch further as we go through 2006. What kind of operational expenses should we reporting into our models? And how media expenses and SAK are going to be amortized through the P&L? Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay, hi, Viktor. Let's make sure I understand your question. The $0.10 to $0.15 obviously has the video piece in it. I would suggest that it probably ramps during the year, you know, as you start to have more success base, if you're thinking about how it spreads, right, you're going to -- you're going to ramp it up through the end of the year. And on -- as far as the -- you're asking like what we're capitalizing and what we're expensing piece of it? On the video piece, I guess it's really mostly capital.  

VIKTOR SHVETS: Right, so, you'll be -- you'll be -- you'll be capitalizing and then amortizing over a number of years, is it?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes. And I guess different pieces would have different lives to, you know, what we're -- what we're amortizing in.  

VIKTOR SHVETS: Okay. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Viktor. Operator, next question.  

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Okay, thanks very much. Good morning. Ivan, there's been a lot of talk out of Europe about Vodafone being pressured to sell their stake in Verizon Wireless. Can you just talk about whether that's something you would still like to do and whether do you think there might be some opportunity this year? And secondly, can you talk about the regulatory environment around video franchising? Any sort of movement in Washington or in the states, to try to get that moving along more quickly? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, on the Vodafone question, like everyone else, we were very interested in what we read and heard about the -- the Vodafone earnings call. Our position has pretty much been the same all along and maybe I -- I take a moment to clarify where we are in this. First of all, we've had no direct indication from Vodafone that they've changed their position. So, we're as anxious as anyone else is to see how the -- the conversation that started the other day materializes. To the extent, however, that there is a change of a view coming from Vodafone, we clearly would be interested in increasing ownership of Verizon Wireless, whether in stages or actually acquiring 100% of it. I would add that we also recognize that the put option is not the preferred vehicle for Vodafone to facilitate any transaction. That was exactly the issue we had when they were considering the purchase of AWE. So -- so, Simon, we are very open and willing to consider negotiation around that to make sure that it's efficient for both sides and it's -- we can maximize value for both parties. You know, when you think about it, Verizon Wireless has gone through an extraordinary run here. It's -- it's created a lot of value for both sides. And that I think that it's a good time to think about this and so we would stand ready to work on that. One other point that -- that I would make is that, as we think about this, just so that Verizon shareholders would understand how we think about this, Doreen and I have -- have talked about this, and our view is to the extent possible, we would try to do anything here if it was -- if it was given to us by Vodafone, with as much cash as possible. And so, for example, like everybody understands, the Omnitel ownership, perhaps the -- the divestiture of VIS would all be -- be part of how we would think about funding, funding the whole operation. So, I think we need to give Vodafone some room to think through what they want to do. But our position, Simon, has been what it's always been. If the opportunity came to be, we would be -- we would stand ready to work with them.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Good. And on the video franchising?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, on that we feel that we're making good progress here. We have a few more franchises working. We have plans for several hundred more to file. There've been a couple of break throughs in several states, in which legislatures have taken votes on it. We even have one state, believe it or not, where the -- where the local cable association has taken a positive position on -- on where we are. So, I think, Simon, the way we see this, is we're going to continue the -- the sort of community by community approach that we've started. But we feel we are getting traction in several states. We're taking a look at the broader picture. I'm sure you know that next week there's a hearing in Washington on this subject. So, I think there's a lot of momentum building, and we're taking the position we're going to do this step by step, but also look for the sort of broader policy opportunity and we feel that the -- the stars are lining up for public officials to take a more aggressive stance on this over the next several months.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Great. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Simon. Operator next question please.  

OPERATOR: Jeff Halpern, Sanford Bernstein.  

JEFF HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Good morning, guys. Ivan, if I could just follow up -- two questions, if I could follow up on your answer to Simon's question just now. I was wondering if you have any sense of what the difference in timing looks like between a state level approval process for franchising versus a municipal -- municipality by municipality one? And then, Doreen, is there any way you can give us a similar kind of update as you did last quarter on where we are on things like operating expense savings and capital savings that you're seeing in markets that have had FiOS for six or nine months or longer?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, quickly, I don't think there's a big issue associated with timing. I don't think there's, by the way, any story there. I think that the law is the law. I think we have to go out and get -- and get franchise approvals and we're doing that and we're doing it aggressively. And we're queued up. We don't feel that there's any impediment to our rolling out FiOS during the year, 2006. Admittedly as we go into two seven and '08, we'll need to be more aggressive because we'll be in more communities. But by that time, I'm sure we will have so much success with -- with the early deployment, that the whole political environment starts to -- to change as we go forward. We've already seen that. And as I -- we've said before, every place where we -- we instigate a vote, the vote usually comes out, you know, let's -- let's create competition in this -- in this marketplace. So, we do have some -- some things in the regulatory process we need to work through, but I don't think there's any -- any timing issue that we have to face anytime in 2006.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Great.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay, and Jeff, on the operation -- operation savings or on the capitol savings, I think at this point, the scale -- the amount of [how] homes that we really have connected, it's really to small to have, you know, to have a lot of data. What we get is antidotal at this point. So, it is -- it is -- we do track -- say when there's weather-related, you can see that the trouble reports from those -- those homes, you know, don't vary at all. But as far as, you know, being able to say it's "X" amount of dollars at this point, I think we need, you know, some more time and some more scale before we can really get our hands on that definitively.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay, thanks.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks, Jeff. Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: David Janazzo, Merrill Lynch  

DAVID JANAZZO, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Doreen, you had talked about workforce and, of course, with -- with MCI you'll have about 250,000 employees, and you had mentioned 7,000 over -- over a three-year period. Can you comment a bit on -- on the overall strategy of -- of head count management?  

DOREEN TOBEN: In all [well] -- in the different units if I -- starting like with wireless, in wireless, I think what we've seen is, you know, you'll see increases because of its growth, plus we've had different strategies in wireless, where we're actually putting people in stores. So, to the extent that you're actually putting a store within a store, you're actually growing your head count. If I move over to the Telco, they will have, you know, some reduction level this year and part of it will be, you know, a straight reduction. The other piece is, you know, they're going to move some people really on to the FiOS plan. So, they have a fairly significant number that they're going down. But some of it is, in fact, a shift from the base into capital. And the 7,000 that we talked about, a lot of it, very heavily loaded front-end loaded of that 7,000 over the first two years. So, you'll see a substantial number going down, a lot in the mass markets initially. Okay?  

DAVID JANAZZO: And then in terms of the Telco, you mentioned a reduction level in -- in '06. Any further clarification on that?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, at this time I'm not going to give you a number.  

DAVID JANAZZO: Okay. Thank you.  

RON LATAILLE: Thanks Dave. Operator, now I'd like to turn the call over to Ivan Seidenberg for some concluding comments.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, just a couple of thoughts here. Hopefully as -- as investors and owners look at our Company this quarter, there's a couple of things that -- that we would like you to consider as you do your analysis and you look out into the future about us. First of all, hopefully you see that -- or as Doreen said, our strategies are taking root, we're gaining some momentum. There is a greater shift of our overall top line focused on the growth markets. You can see that in all of the markets that we have significant opportunities. Our Telco is gaining customers. We recognize we need to convert the investments in FiOS and DSL and LD into bottom line results and we're anxious to -- to prove that. The VZ Business to us, that is a bottom line story of getting synergies out and generating improvements in -- in cash year-over-year. The wireless story speaks for itself. It's both the top and the bottom line story and it's one of raising the bar and widening the lead. But while that's happening, hopefully that -- that everyone sees that wireless looks at the market as having more unlimited opportunities, rather than a closing, a ceiling on it. There's plenty of growth available for us, and with the kind of engine that our team has built, we're in good shape.  

There's always a lot of discussion about returning value to shareholders. The only comment that I would like to make on that is, that as we finish 2005, we took steps with our pension for management. We -- we just took a step, last month, to increase our share buyback capability from 80 to 100 million shares. We have focused on the divestiture of VIS and the quick go-to-market for the MCI combination. So, we feel we're in a better position, as we move into 2006, by executing on our plan, showing that we have good solid results and good -- good operating focus. But at the same time, the Company will have increased flexibility to deal with how we return value to shareholders during the year. The -- the new starter this week, as we were preparing for this call, obviously the new interest and perhaps acquiring a greater ownership share in Vodafone. While there's still a lot of work to be done and we have to be sure we -- we know where Vodafone comes out, that's another opportunity that, if it came to us, we would be more than delighted to -- to go forward. So, with that, we feel like we had a good quarter. And that we're poised to continue the momentum into 2006. Thanks.  

RON LATAILLE: Thank you, everybody. For joining our call. And have a good day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060209e21q000s3
  


 HD
 Q3  2005  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,470 words
   PD
27 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. And Welcome to the Verizon third quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Cathie Webster, Senior Vice President Investor Relations of Verizon.  

CATHIE WEBSTER, SVP OF IR, VERIZON: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our third quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Thank for joining us this morning. I'm Cathie Webster. With me in New York this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our Chairman and CEO; and Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer.  

   TD
Before we get started, let me remind you that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication, and the presentation slides are on the investor relations website. This call is being webcast live. If you'd like to listen to a replay, you can do so from our website.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor Statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking, and subject to risk and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is contained in this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings which is on our website. This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules. As required by these rules, we have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on the same web page as our presentation slides.  

Before turn the call over to Doreen, I would like to direct you to some information on our reported and adjusted earnings. Reported earnings per share for the quarter were $0.67 and adjusted EPS is $0.66. The special items that make up this net $0.01 difference are discussed in the earnings release and provided in the reconciliation tables within our financial statements.  

With that, I will turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Cathie, and good morning to everyone.  

We delivered a strong quarter with adjusted revenue growth of 5.4%, solid margins and cash flows, and earnings growth. We increased our market share on wireless again with 1.9 million net adds, continuing our leadership in adding customers. And in broadband, we had a record quarter with 389,000 net adds as we accelerated the migration of customers from narrow band to broadband. Adjusted EPS were $0.66, up 1.5% year-on-year. Year-to-date adjusted EPS of $1.92 is up 2.7%. While this is modest growth, I believe it demonstrates our capacity to manage our cost and offset the initially dilutive effects of growth initiatives and higher pension, retirement, and healthcare cost.  

Now let's look at our results for the quarter. Total consolidated revenues grew 5.4% which puts us at 5.7% growth year-to-date. Full year revenue growth will probably be in the 5.5 to 5.8% range. Consolidated revenue growth was driven by Verizon Wireless, which grew its topline by 14.2% reflecting very strong customer growth and data growth. Wireline revenue trends continue to stabilize remaining the same on a sequential basis and declining only 0.7% year-over-year. Adjusted cash expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization as well as pension and OPEB cost, grew 6.2% primarily due to wireless customer growth. In telecom, these cash expenses actually declined both sequentially and year-over-year. Adjusted operating income margins, excluding pension and OPEB costs, were 21.2% in the third quarter, an increase of 30 basis points both sequentially and year-over-year. Margin performance at Verizon Wireless continue to be excellent; and in wireline, margins remained relatively steady. All in all, a very solid quarter.  

We are maintaining our strict focus on cost control and see further opportunities for efficiencies and cost reductions. This is extremely important as we remain committed to the growth initiatives that will drive future revenue growth. In the area of headcount, force back fills are limited to growth areas or places where more manpower can accelerate efficiency savings, such as information technology. We are also experiencing less overtime on a year-over-year basis due to productivity gains and some better weather. Our web-based self-services initiatives are ramping. In wireline, we are driving more customer transactions online and paperless. Our wholesale business order flow through metrics continue to improve. In wireless, we have simplified customer interaction with increased self-service options. This year, total sales service transactions via handsets, IVR, and the web have displaced a significant number of live contact calls. My Business and My Account subscriptions have significantly increased the amount of self-service payment and paperless billing customers.  

An example of how we're approaching the opportunities we see related to productivity is the recent creation of Verizon Services. This internal organization is designed to provide back-office and support services to all of our businesses. To give you a sense of size and savings opportunity, we intend to include up to 12,000 employees with a current expense budget of about 3 billion. Verizon Services will include procurement, real estate, benefits administration, and financial operations like accounts payable, billing, collections, payroll and other transaction-based services. By performing these functions through one organization, we intend to increase efficiencies through economies of scale and reduce duplication of effort.  

I'd like to spend a few minutes on the key drivers of revenue growth. On the top of chart six, the combination of our wireline and wireless businesses shows steady top line growth in 2005. This growth reflects continuing healthy demand of our communication products and services despite the loss of traditional switched access lines. Some observers assume that because we're losing access lines we're losing customers. In fact, the opposite is true. We're adding customer connections faster than we're losing access lines. That's because the loss of traditional lines is not entirely due to competition. In fact, Verizon is a beneficiary of this secular change. Residential customers are migrating from switched access line to wireless and broadband. We continue to believe that a majority of the consumer migration is to wireless. And as you know, we pick up more than our share of these customers. And in wireline, a big part of our strategy is to accelerate this technology migration by moving customers up the value chain from traditional narrow band lines to broadband connections.  

We are attracting an increasing share of these customers with our expanding portfolio of wireline broadband products. The result is that our wireline and wireless customer connections -- that is, the combination of switched access lines, broadband connections, and wireless subscribers have grown by more than 5% year-over-year. Growth in combined wireline and wireless data revenues exceed 23% on a year-over-year basis. The overarching concept here is that the total market for communications services is growing, and we are clearly participating in the growth. Most important, you can see that revenues have steadily increased and our margin performance has been relatively stable during this transition.  

Let's take a closer look at our CapEx. Through nine months of this year, capital expenditures were 11.6 billion compared with 9.1 billion a year ago. As you are well aware, the incremental capital spending has largely been in support of our wireless growth and the fiber initiative. We are reiterating our full-year 2005 CapEx guidance of around 15.3 billion which represents a 15% increase over last year's total of 13.3. In wireless, we spend 1.6 billion in the third quarter and 5 billion year-to-date. In wireline, we invested 2.2 billion during the quarter and 6.2 billion year-to-date. Looking ahead to next year, we are targeting total CapEx for 2006 to be relatively flat compared with 2005. Somewhere in the range of 15.4 to 15.7 billion. Our total CapEx guidance assumes lower EV-DO spending, continued improvements in capital efficiency and FiOS and rigorous discipline in the core wireline and wireless businesses.  

In wireline, we estimate 2006 spending to be in the range of 8.5 billion. As far as FiOS deployment plans, we're planning to pay off an additional 3 million premises in 2006, bringing our cumulative total to 6 million by the end of next year. In wireless, we are targeting 2006 spending to be in the range of 6.3 billion. It's important to note that I am excluding capital spending related to MCI in 2006. We will provide information on that after the merger transaction closes.  

Let's take a look at slide eight and review our balance sheet and cash flows. During the quarter, we reduced total debt by 2.3 billion to 39.4 billion. As we look to the year end, we anticipate the total debt will remain at approximately this level. Also in the fourth quarter, we expect to receive the second half of the Vodafone Omnitel share repurchase proceeds, which should total about 1 billion in net cash. We also anticipate that the normal fourth quarter funding of employee benefit trusts will be consistent with the amount funded last year. So the balance sheet remains in good shape.  

As far as cash goes, our cash from operations continue to be very strong at 5.4 billion. Looking ahead into next year, I am very comfortable that CFFO will remain strong and is more than enough to support our capital program and the funding of dividends. In addition, from a total cash perspective, we do not anticipate the need to invest nearly as much in wireless spectrum as we did this past year.  

I'd like to begin our segment review with wireless. Verizon Wireless turned in another great quarter extending our record of industry-leading results. Revenue growth was once again very strong with continued ramping of our data revenues. We continue to gain market share in this competitive industry. We added 1.9 million subscribers, significantly more than our nearest competitor. Through nine months, we have 5.5 million net adds. We now have 49.3 million customers representing a 17% year-over-year growth. And our continued focus on efficiency and cost controls resulted in industry-leading profitability as we continue to deliver EBITDA margins in excess of 40%. Cash flow from operations are extremely strong at 8.4 billion year-to-date, an increase of 19%.  

Once again, Verizon Wireless is setting the industry benchmark for growth, profitability, and cash generation. Chart ten shows our very strong financial trends over the past five quarters. Quarterly revenues have increased more than 1 billion over the course of the past year to 8.4 billion, a 14.2% year-over-year growth rate. Cash expenses rose 18% compared with the same quarter a year ago primarily due to strong growth. Operating income grew to 1.8 billion in the quarter, representing 10.5% growth year-over-year. EBITDA margins were again very strong at 41.5% in the third quarter, including the unfavorable impact of 44 million related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which we have not normalized. And CFFO was 2.8 billion in the quarter, up both sequentially and year-over-year. We have strong revenue growth in ARPU results in the quarter. Service revenue was up nearly 900 million or 13.8% year-on-year. Service ARPU of $50.13 was up 1% sequentially and down 2.8% year-on-year, which is about the same as last quarter's year-on-year comparison. Our strong revenue performance was driven by data usage and the good customer profile of new adds. We see increasing penetration of our ARPU-accretive 3G services in bot the consumer and business markets, as well as an increase in the higher ARPU business accounts. As a premier industry franchise, we gained significant share with 1.9 million net adds and now have over 49.3 million customers.  

As you can see on chart 12, we have not sacrificed the quality of our base for the sake of growth. We continue to have a very strong mix of customers heavily weighted toward retail post-paid which represents nearly 93% of the base. Our focus on loyalty and service also enables us to keep the balance at LNP, or local number portability traffic, in our favor. Since the beginning of 2004, we have taken share from every national carrier through LNP in every single quarter. Our continued emphasis on network quality is an important factor in maintaining our industry-leading churn position. For the quarter, total churn was 1.29%, with retail post-paid churn an impressive 1.08%. We're very pleased with our progress in wireless data, as customers are responding strongly to our data offerings. Whether it be laptop or PDA access, text or picture messaging, or other downloadable applications like songs and games. Data revenue has become an increasingly large piece of the overall revenue pie, totaling more than 600 million or 8.4% of total service revenues in the quarter. For wireless, data now represents $4.23 of ARPU, up from $3.47 last quarter. Very strong sequential growth. 46% of our total retail base are data users, up an impressive 48% since this time a year ago. And we are really only at the beginning of this significant revenue opportunity.  

At this point, no one in the industry is better positioned to take advantage of this growth market than Verizon Wireless. Our EV-DO network gives us, by far, the most pervasive wireless broadband coverage of any carrier in the marketplace. Our 3G broadband coverage now extends to 170 metro areas, covering nearly 150 million people, or close to half of the U.S. population with speeds in the range of 400 to 700 kilobits per second. And since EV-DO is compatible with our 1XRTT technology, our data customers have national data coverage.  

We completed the industry's very first calls over the next upgrade to EV-DO called "Rev. A," which will enable even richer multimedia services as well as voice over IP. You can expect us to continue pushing the envelope and maintaining our leadership position in mobile broadband as we conduct more extensive trials of Rev. A early next year.  

Our first mover advantage in the wireless data has really paid off as customers are moving up in bandwidth. We now offer 15 different EV-DO broadband devices, the most of any carrier. We have four PC cards, four PDAs, and seven handsets in the market today, all EV-DO compatible. Besides the incremental revenue opportunity that these devices bring, EV-DO is more spectrally efficient than 1X, so the cost of 3G data traffic on the network is lower. We're also excited about the recent partnerships with Dell, HP and Lenovo to imbed EV-DO chips in their laptops. We will have easy to use self-provisioning and session-based usage options. And earlier this month, we announced our agreement with Palm and Microsoft to offer the Windows Mobile Treo. We continue to see strong growth in our VCAST product. There were 2 million video clips downloaded in the month of September alone. We expect continued strong growth as we add new devices like the LG 9800, and the six music-capable phones we offer. The size of our broadband footprint, coupled with the rapid adoption rates of these products, is also spurring new application development, which we believe will be a key driver of future growth in wireless broadband.  

On the cost side, Verizon Wireless continues to deliver strong margins and maintain stable cash expenses even with our high levels of growth. As a result, our cash expense per subscriber increased only 1%, even with gross adds growing 5.7%, and hurricane-related expenses during the quarter. One of the strengths of our cost structure is a strong direct distribution channel, which delivered 68% of our retail post-paid gross adds in the quarter. On the indirect side, you are aware that we are winding down our use of Radio Shack as a distribution channel. At the same time, we are developing new relationships with major household name retailers such as BJ's stores, where we are adding kiosks staffed by Verizon Wireless employees. This is similar to the model we're using with Circuit City, which we found to be quite successful. We were also supplementing our indirect channels by adding major consumer retailers such as Costco. In Target and Rite Aid, we plan to offer a limited number of wireless devices targeted at specific market niches.  

Finally, employee productivity continues to climb with customers per employee increasing by 3.9% over the past year. As I said earlier, a big factor in this productivity improvement is the widespread use of web-based transactions. During the same time, we've seen the call-in rate to customer service decline by about 15%. Also, our focus on customer service is not only paying off with lower cost, but also in high customer satisfaction results and outstanding churn rates. To wrap up wireless, we had another great quarter in a consecutive string of great quarters as we build upon our industry-leading position.  

Let's move now to wireline. Wireline revenue trends continue to stabilize. As was the case last quarter, revenues were flat sequentially and down only slightly year-over-year. Data revenues continue to grow increasing 10.9% year-over-year and 3.3% sequentially, driven by strong demand for hi-cap and broadband products. We had our best ever quarter for DSL and FiOS. By maintaining a strong focus on cost controls, we have absorbed the high cost of sales from growth initiatives and have managed to keep our margins stable. As you know, our strategy is to maintain margin stability as we manage the secular transformation of the wireline business. At the same time, we continue to invest in future growth platforms such as FiOS. This focus on cost management gives us confidence in our ability to generate solid margins. We continue to deliver strong operating cash flows, generating 2.4 billion in wireline CFFO during the quarter, which is 6% higher on a sequential basis.  

Taking a look at the wireline financials on chart 16, revenues were just shy of 9.5 billion in the quarter. These results are similar to the second quarter and down 0.7% year-over-year. One of the key growth drivers is data revenues. Data revenues grew 3.3% sequentially and 10.9% year-on-year. We are seeing strong demand in DS-1s, DS-3s, consumer broadband services, and high speed data connections from large customers. When looking at total wireline revenues, it's important to remember that year-over-year comparisons still include the effects of the absence of revenues from discontinued activities. These impacts resulted in a 70 million year-over-year decline this quarter. Going forward, this will continue. We recently terminated a large logistics management contract that generated nearly 100 million in quarterly revenue. Keep in mind that these are low margin activities, so while the absence of the revenues may impact growth, they have little effect on profitability. Cash expenses, excluding pension and OPEB, were down 2.2% compared with a year ago, and 1.7% on a sequential basis. The all in earnings dilution from FiOS is $0.04 in the quarter and $0.10 year-to-date. Adjusted operating income margins, excluding pensions and OPEB, increased to 17.1%, up from 16% last quarter and 16.2% a year ago.  

Now let's take a closer look at the consumer line of business. As competition and technology changes put pressure on traditional switched access lines, we are responding with a customer value proposition that will drive both consumer ARPU and revenue growth. Consumer revenues were flat on both a sequential and year-over-year basis. Revenues from DSL and long distance along with Freedom packages continued to offset the effects of retail residential line loss. In the third quarter, average monthly revenue per customer was $51.61, up 4.6% versus the year-ago quarter and up 1.4% sequentially. We have increased this key metric for six quarters in a row. Clearly the relationship of residential access lines to consumer revenues has changed. By selling local and long distance voice, broadband connections with either DSL or FiOS, VoiceWing, and DirecTV, we get revenues from sources that are no longer part of traditional line count.  

We have taken each of these consumer services and calculated a metric called revenue generating unit. As you can see from the graph on chart 17, this metric tracks much better with revenue performance. Retail residential line losses continued at about the same pace as last quarter and the same period a year ago. As I noted earlier, a majority of this line migration is to wireless. A lot of these lines are migrating to broadband, particularly as dial-up users have attractively-priced broadband alternatives to consider. Before talking more about our consumer broadband performance, I'd like to point out that we now have nearly 300 thousand customers who receive a Verizon-DirecTV bundle. Importantly, we have also been relatively successful in getting a high percentage of these customers to take or switch to our DSL service when they sign up for DirecTV.  

In broadband, we are very pleased about our record quarter with 389,000 net adds, a figure which includes DSL and FiOS. In DSL, we have seen significantly higher sales trends since we introduced our new entry level 768 kilobit service in late August along with a new co-branded Yahoo portal for customers. Our objective in introducing this lower-priced product was to better address the dial-up market with an attractive broadband offer. So far what we've seen is very healthy demand stimulation among dial-up users. We have taken this opportunity to up-sell prospective new customers to our higher speed products, and in fact, many new customers are choosing this offer once they understand their options. We will continue to look for ways to add value and choices for consumers such as the addition of the Yahoo portal. You may have seen our Verizon One product announcement a few weeks ago. Verizon One is an in-home device that integrates a DSL modem, a wireless router, and a cordless phone with a color touch screen, Super-Pages features and more. Together with iobi, it allows customers to efficiently manage all their communication needs and devices. It was named one of this year's recipients of a Frost and Sullivan Product Innovation Award.  

Now let's move to FiOS. The penetration rates to date are ahead or on plan with the business model. In the 35 markets where we have been actively marketing for more than six months, penetration now stands at 12.4%. These markets are spread throughout our footprint and compete with all the major cable players. This adoption rate is a significant improvement over DSL penetration during much longer time frames. As far as deployment goes, we remain on track to pass a cumulative 3 million premises by the end of December. We have passed 2.5 million to date. Another important benefit from fiber is the opportunity for operating expense savings. Let's take trouble reports as a simple example. In the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic markets, the number of dispatched trouble reports for traditional phone service normally average about 40,000 per day. During the second week of October, when we had the heavy rains, this number ramped up to more than 140,000. In those same markets, in communities where we have deployed FiOS, the average number of troubles is very low and during the same period of heavy rain, remained constant even as we continued to add more subscribers. This is a clear demonstration of the significant cost benefits from an all-fiber infrastructure. As you expect, to clear all troubles during peak times is very costly due to all the premium time. This is an example of the type of savings available only with an FTTP platform and not with any of the other alternatives. Again, this experience gives us confidence that we can achieve significant productivity improvements with this initiative.  

On the video front, we achieved a significant milestone in late September when we introduced FiOS TV in the Keller, Texas market. We are quite pleased with the initial very strong response to FiOS TV. We believe that a differentiated video product from our trusted brand will be very appealing to customers, and that's exactly what we're seeing so far, particularly from existing FiOS data customers. Interestingly, we are also seeing very high interest from the non-FiOS customers in Keller. And when they order FiOS TV, they generally switch to FiOS data as well. So initially, very good pull through results. So the bottom line on FiOS is that we are on track, very pleased with data penetration rates so far and excited about rolling out FiOS TV as fast as we can.  

Now let's move to business. Revenues in the business market were 2.8 billion, flat sequentially and down 45 million, or 1.6% versus third quarter '04. Within the enterprise space, we were obviously looking forward to the closing of the MCI transaction. In the meantime, we continue to make good strides with our own data initiatives through Enterprise Advance. Products with strong growth include our SONET-based products, Transparent LAN Services and Data Sales outside of traditional exchange boundaries. In the highly competitive small- and medium-sized business market, we're focussed on customer retention and have been actively marketing our Verizon Freedom for Business as well as DSL. In the small business market, we're seeing good DSL growth, which is helping to mitigate the effects of line losses. Lastly, regarding retail business line losses, we continue to see improvements over the level we experienced in 2004, especially when we exclude ISDN line losses related to the expiration of certain dial-up port contracts, such as UUNET and Level 3. There were 93,000 lines lost in the third quarter that fall into this category, and 337,000 for year-to-date. We expect these type of line losses to continue especially as dial-up businesses lose customers to broadband. At this point, we estimate about another 80,000 lines will be lost next quarter for this reason.  

Moving to wholesale, wholesale revenues increased by just under 1% on a sequential basis with third quarter growth on both the carrier and local wholesale side. On a year-over-year basis, revenues were down 32 million or 1.5%. On the local wholesale side, as you might expect, we continue to see a loss of UNE-P lines. Total voice connections, which include both UNE-P and resale lines, decline by 331,000 during the quarter. This represents a sizable portion of total lines lost in the quarter. It shouldn't be too surprising that these are customers choosing alternatives other than Verizon retail since they already made that decision when they went with UNE-P providers in the first place. The state the obvious, a UNE-P line does not have the highest ARPU or best margins, and although we continue to experience line losses in local wholesale, we certainly have been quite successful, moving a majority of this wholesale base to commercial agreements. We now have 90% of the base on commercial agreements, providing upside on a revenue per line basis as well as an incremental margin opportunity since there is no incremental cost. Wholesale is already very efficient in terms of provisioning flow through. On the carrier side of wholesale, while switched minutes continue to decline, we see very solid demand for our wholesale data services, particularly driven by the continued growth in wireless usage.  

On the cost side, we continue to closely monitor force levels and balance force with work volumes, shifting manpower capacity wherever possible to support our fiber initiatives. Our overall wireline headcount remained roughly the same as last quarter, slightly below 142,000. We have eliminated the cost of certain nonstrategic activities in areas like logistics management as an example. And we've done a very good job absorbing the cost of the fiber initiatives, increased advertising, and higher energy costs. We also continually focus on productivity improvements. You can see a few of the key metrics on this chart which all have shown improvement over the course of time. As you can imagine, we track all types of metrics related to employee productivity, including jobs per day, installation times and so on. We also see further opportunities for savings in the area of real estate and call center management.  

So in summary, our third quarter financial and operational results reflect good progress. We see significant opportunities to sell FiOS data and are pleased with the FiOS TV launch in Keller, Texas. In the intensely competitive wireless market, Verizon Wireless continues to set the industry standard for excellence, innovation and performance. Overall, we have demonstrated our ability to manage our business efficiently, provide excellent service, and deliver innovative products that customers want. Finally, as you view our Company, our results demonstrate that we continue to drive solid operating momentum that provides us with the flexibility to further drive share owner value.  

That's all, Cathie, and I'll turn it back to you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Thanks, Doreen. Operator, I believe we're ready for questions.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS].David Barden, Banc of America Securities.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey. Good morning, guys.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hey, Dave.  

DAVID BARDEN: Good quarter. I just wanted to follow-up on kind of a few issues. One, on FiOS, you talked about $0.04 of dilution impact in the quarter, $0.10 to date. Is that $0.04 number a good kind of baseline to extrapolate from in terms of the costs that are filtering into the business, maybe heading into next year, given that you might be a run rate ramp, if you will, currently? The second thing is, could you get a little bit more specific about what Radio Shack's contribution to the wireless business was in the quarter, so we can get a sense of magnitude? And then last, on the force side, you had good cost control in wireline. Force wasn't really a contributor there. You've made dramatic moves in force in the past. What is the plan heading into the fourth quarter and into '06 on wireline headcount? Thanks a lot.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Well, that was a few questions. Let me start on the FiOS side. I would say for -- what I'll talk to you about is '05 at the moment without '06 guidance. I would say for the year, you should probably think around, oh, another $0.04 maybe for the fourth quarter would be right. You've seen a number -- we've given -- I gave you a number in the talk points of doing 3 million home passed next year from a capital perspective, which is a million more than we passed this year. We're still really working through the '06 numbers exactly. So while we are becoming more efficient on the capital side, we haven't really closed down on the total -- on what '06 looks like right now. On the Radio Shack, I don't have an exact number for the quarter. We think it's about 9% of the gross adds, right? -- of the gross adds. And it's been coming down consistently. What was your next one? Cost control. Cost control on the telco or --?  

DAVID BARDEN: What is the headcount plan --?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Oh, headcount, okay. From a headcount perspective, we will continue to look at this. And we are looking at it. We haven't really landed on '06. But as you would expect, we are very focussed on cost controls. I went through some of the things that we're doing. When I went through the slides, we are still looking at a lot more web-based. We're looking at a lot more flow through. So we will definitely looking at headcount, but not ready to commit to a number at this point.  

DAVID BARDEN: Okay, thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Okay. Thank you. Good morning. Could you update us on the regulatory side of things with MCI? When you expect to, one, get the final approvals with California November 18, can you close soon after that? And California's proposed some ideas around naked DSL, if you have comments on that. And then following up on David's question on costs, SG&A and wireline was pretty impressive, down about 7%. If it's not force and there's the FiOS dilution, what are the other big deltas that are helping the SG&A? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VERIZON: On the MCI transaction, as you probably read this morning, there's a pending solution at the Justice Department. We'll wait for them to release their official document on it. So we're comfortable that we'll achieve a reasonable solution there. We will move to the FCC. We have several states left. All of them should be done by the second or third week in December. And we will shoot to close as soon there after if possible. It -- possible to close at the end of the year. It's more likely to close during the first part of January. So we're very comfortable with that.  

In terms of the naked DSL question, we're offering that now, so as far as we're concerned, if that's part of whatever solution to the MCI transaction, we view them as separate issues. But to the extent that we need to document that and agree to it, we've already made our statement in the market about what naked DSL is all about.  

Now, in terms of force, let me just expand that a little bit. I think Doreen covered it clearly. That as we go into next year, we're challenging ourselves to figure out a way to take further cost out of the business so we put in place a few things right away that looks at a lot of the infrastructure costs that go with real estate and accounts payable and receivable, and billing and payroll and things of that nature. Benefits administration is another one. Logistics and procurement. I think all of those things you get to take not only non-wage out, but over time you also get to save on the wage side. I also believe that as we continue to deploy more and more FiOS, we'll start to see more and more productivity gains from that. And then, of course, we've been very aggressive on the question of IT deployment. So I think you should expect that we are committed and focussed on taking another important step toward cost reduction to be consistent with the nature of where the business is going, and that will be clear over the next couple of quarters as we lay out the plan. But hopefully, in this quarter you began to see the focus that we have around this question and what we're doing to put in place the mechanisms to make it happen.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I guess I would just add on the cost reductions that you're seeing, some of it is force. There is overtime. The overtime was substantially less this quarter. We have obviously been executing on the cost saving initiatives to the extent that the logistics the contract that we lost as far as the supply, the cost of goods also goes down. That piece being sustainable for the year that it will be gone. And we've done some real estate consolidation. I expect that we will be doing real estate consolidation for the next year or two. So there was some of that in there as well.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Viktor Shvets, Deutsche Bank.  

VIKTOR SHVETS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes. Good morning, everyone. I just got three quick questions. One regarding FiOS. Could you give us some idea how many homes did you market the product to in the last six months or so? The second question regarding wholesale, 5.8 million wholesale connection, just what is the split up between the UNE-P as well as resale, and could you give us some idea of the profitability of the wholesale trend and wholesale revenue? And finally, access line losses in the consumer area, could you give us some idea regarding kind of the source of those losses, in particular the impact of cable competition? Thank you very much.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay, let me see if I got them all. On the first one, which is how many homes that we're marketing to, it's around 1.1, 1.2 at this point for the quarter that we've been marketing to. What was the -- oh, the wholesale. The wholesale profitability one with -- we have about 90% of our UNE-P lines under contract. The ARPU is at this point a little bit over $24. So at this point the wholesale, while not as profitable as the retail line, is certainly sitting in a better shape than it was, and actually we think is in fact profitable. What was that middle one on supplies, Viktor?  

VIKTOR SHVETS: The split up of wholesale between resale and UNE-P, 5.8 million.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Oh, I don't have that off the top of my -- if somebody -- I'll have to look for that one. And then do the last one while somebody's looking for you. What was the last one?  

VIKTOR SHVETS: Access line losses in the residential area.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Oh, in the residential area. I guess on access lines, what I would say is, we are where we expected to be. We've mentioned to you that we were going to be continuing to lose. I would suggest that, once again, this isn't a single metric. And you have to look at it more holistically, which we talked about looking at your broadband lines, your access lines, your wireless lines. We feel comfortable that we've laid out a plan that will address the secular change that we're seeing here. Certainly, as you look at the ARPU, I mentioned we're up for the last six quarters in ARPU, and we've been able to sustain the margin. As far as consumer retail access lines, we've seen them relatively stable. On a -- it was really the wholesale lines that really picked up for us. And if you ask me where I was seeing it, I would suggest that we've seen some pickup in particular in the Northeast out of VoIP in a few states. Not a huge one, but we continue for the -- to see the biggest piece be wireless.  

And I think we've come up with the wholesale split. It's 364,000 loss in UNE-Ps and 34 adds in resale line.  

VIKTOR SHVETS: Thanks very much.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Blake Bath, Lehman Brothers.  

BLAKE BATH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, and congratulations on the excellent quarter. Two questions. First, of the 389,000 broadband adds, how many of those were for FiOS? And the second question -- Ivan, a couple years ago you alluded to some prospective asset reshuffling that could further enhance the overall corporate growth outlook. And since that time, your ownership of Verizon Wireless remains at 55% and would suggest your fortunate exposure to wireless is around 20% of total revenues pro forma of the MCI deal while you've invested heavily in MCI and FiOS. How important going forward is it to expand your exposure to wireless, both organically and via acquisition, while reducing your exposure to wireline and directories? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, on the first question, on 389,000 broadband, it's our policy to combine the FiOS and DSL number, primarily for competitive reasons across the market. So we'll continue to provide that as a single number. As we go out in time and we sign up video customers, we'll come up with a -- the appropriate time at which we'll break out the video customers for you. So we'll do that when the results reach some sort of a stable result in a given market. We -- we're very pleased with the DSL number this quarter, and actually the momentum we have in the -- built in the third quarter we already feel going into the fourth, so we have gotten off to a good start there.  

On the issue of asset reshuffling, I might comment this way. I think that the issue for us is to make our business more dependent on growth markets rather than the simple metric of more exposure to wireless. I think that, if you ask me, do we want to go from where we are to more wireless, I think I would say we want to go from where we are to more growth. And so wireless is certainly a key part of it. So to the extent we can expose ourselves to more wireless, we would do it. To the extent that we had an opportunity to ramp up broadband like we're doing, we'll do that as well. I -- on the broader question of asset reshuffling, I just can say this. I think that we've been focussed on the MCI transaction all year. That naturally caused us to keep our head down and not look at a lot of other things and so on and so forth. So I think as we look at 2006, and we look at the, I think, a very good quarter here in terms of execution, I think it's natural for us to take a look and take a relook and look at the entire business in a way that would -- how do we unlock value? So my view is, Blake, it's not so much the simple metric of going from one technology to another. It's how to figure out how to get us more to a growth orientation as we go forward.  

BLAKE BATH: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: John Hodulik, UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Okay. Thanks, good morning. Two quick questions for you. The first one I guess is for Ivan. On the -- during reporting season here, two of your largest peers have talked about cash or stock buy-backs that they're going to do over the course of the remaining year and maybe for the next couple years. Obviously a lot depends on how MCI shakes out. But if you could just give us a little insight into your views on stock buy-backs and especially after Doreen elaborated on the expectations that you'll easily cover your dividend and CapEx scheduled in '06. And then secondly, Verizon has introduced some new lower price points in a few states for unlimited calling recently. Is there any initial feedback from how that's affected line loss or even gross new line additions, and do you expect to take that strategy to your -- some of your core Verizon or Bell Atlantic and 9x markets.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Let me do your second question first. I think it will be fair to say that where we sell more Freedom packages, where we sell -- more customers purchase satellite packages, where we sell broadband, the churn of those access lines for the Iloc [ph] is generally a little bit better. So to answer your question is that one of the reason we try to segment the market along these lines with these different approaches is to try to create a better stickiness with the customers.So without a specific issue for those markets, they all are part of the fabric of what we're trying to do to segment and to be more surgical in terms of how we approach the market. Do you want to add something?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I was just going to add, John, it's really too early. They really just went in in -- like September 20 like in the Texas, California, Florida market, so they are a trial. We're pleased so far, but we're really only a month into this. So I don't think we can tell you how successful these new ones are for a little bit longer.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I agree. I think the point being, though, is that the churn of those lines generally should be better over time as -- if these programs are successful.  

Now, in uses of cash, I think Doreen laid this out. I think it's easy to answer this question. I think if you look at uses of cash, we want to make sure we have the proper amount of reinvesting in the business we do. We want to be properly leveraged, Doreen feels we were. We want to -- as go into '06, I don't think that we have the desire or the strategic need to be as acquisitive as we were in '06 -- '05, I mean, meaning that we bought a lot of spectrum and we completed the transaction with MCI. It's possible that there'll be opportunistic ideas in '06, but nothing of a nature that we know of going into the year. The dividend's very important to us and I think that we raised it last year and we'll continue -- our Board will continue to look at that. And so I think the issue is to the extent there is free cash flow, a share buy-back is a good idea. I mean, it's a good use of cash and I think what we'll do is as we look through the year, we have a sort of a system here in place of how we think about how '06 might look, and to the extent there is free cash flow, we'll certainly consider a share buyback.  

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Operator, we will take one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Jeff Halpern, Sanford Bernstein.  

JEFF HALPERN, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, guys. Just two follow-up questions on FiOS. The first one is, if you look at your operating expenses in the wireline business, there's a very sizable piece of it that all falls into New York, and I was wondering if you could just update us on where we were with a multiple dwelling unit solution for FiOS, and when you think that New York would be a logical market to start rolling out in -- New York City. And then the second question is, you gave us a update -- a little bit of an update on the operating expense savings you anticipate for FiOS. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about capital efficiencies as well? I mean, our math shows something -- the gross CapEx is X, the net CapEx is 30 or 40% less than that, when you take into account the savings on the wireline business. I was just wondering if you have your own math you might be willing to share on that subject? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes, I'll start with the -- when we might get to the MDUs in places like New York. First of all, on the -- more like the single family MDUs, the ones that aren't the really tall buildings, that we're already doing. From what I understand, probably by first quarter, maybe early first quarter they think they have a solution that will do the MDUs.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: We're trialing several different technologies right now. And we'll get to this as soon in '06 as we can. It's an important issue and it's a good question and we'll get there.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Right. And on the -- on the capital efficiencies, what we've seen is as we've scaled, we've seen significant improvement in the cost per home pass from a capital perspective. So as we've scaled, this number has really come down well for us as you get experience. The number that we're still working on is really on the cost per home connected. As you would imagine, we have a lot less homes connected than we do passes, and to that, from an efficiency standpoint, they're doing a lot of things to improve that in different technology and different methods. But that's probably the one that we need to spend the most time on.  

JEFF HALPERN: In terms of copper, in terms of savings on the actual core network when you build out fiber -- when you overbuild with fiber do you have any sense of what your savings look like on the capital side there?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, nothing that we've released yet. Jeff, we certainly have some estimates in the case, but what we're trying to do now is track -- I gave you some examples -- or an example of after having this horrendous weather in the Northeast, we were able to see from a trouble perspective that -- the savings that we got. But we don't really -- we haven't really finished those studies yet. Not enough data to really release it.  

JEFF HALPERN: Okay. Thank you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Okay. Before we end the call, I'd like to turn the call over to Ivan for some closing comments.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Cathie, thank you. I just have a few points I'd like to make of emphasis, and I'll do these quickly.  

First the MCI transaction. It's on schedule. It'll close end of the year or early in '06. We're pleased. There is nothing material that we think will distract from us getting this done. And we're very excited about moving forward. We have done a lot of work, as you know, in the last several weeks to assign teams, do some planning, working with MCI and getting the transition going in that regard.  

I think secondly we had a very strong quarter. I suspect that the -- most of the questions being on the FiOS and telco side, everyone recognizes the extraordinary performance on the wireless side. What you have there is record performance against the rest the industry. Great growth, great churn. Great net adds, great revenue. So I think we're very comfortable. I know there's been a lot of questions we give privately about the sustainability and the growth of the wireless industry. I feel very comfortable that Verizon Wireless is positioned to take whatever reasonable amount of market share that is available in the growth of the industry, but in addition to that, we've been taking share against the rest of the carriers, and we are -- our view in '06 is that we're going to continue down the same path in that regard.  

FiOS, we gave you some guidance on capital. So we -- hopefully that it'll five you some better benchmarks about the progress we're making in those things. Excellent progress on cost per homes passed. Working on other metrics that we will continue to make improvements on. So we're very pleased with the quarterly results. If there's a point I would make about how you would -- I would ask that those look at the Company, that we are in transition in some parts of our Company. Other parts of our business are growing very healthily, but we've maintained our margins and we still have very strong margins across the business when you look at us as a consolidated company.  

If you look at the access line question, you have asked a lot about that. Doreen nailed that one. Our view is we still should expect access line losses. That's not a surprise to us and everything we're doing around that to create growth revenue units is geared to continue to build value long-term.  

Other issues, we have touched on capital guidance and we have touched on costs. I think you can just expect us in the next several quarters to display more issues surrounding how we deal with the overall cost question. Because we do agree that there are -- there is a shift from some of the fixed and legacy cost of the business that we need to work through as we deploy the capital to achieve growth in the new markets. So that's something we'll do.  

And cash generation. The question about -- I know all the other calls have discussed share buybacks and stuff. Well, you can see the -- as we see the uses of cash, to the extent that we were in a position to do share buybacks we would, but it's important that you understand sort of the pecking order of how we look at the cash situation.  

And then lastly, there was the question about the whole issue of assets and all those kinds of things. We are open to continue to look at all the things going on. Markets change. Valuations change. Lots of things go on. I think the MCI transaction gives us an opportunity to take a fresh look at the whole business going into '06 and our Board is committed to make sure we do that.  

Last comment is the stock price, I just want you to know starting with me, we're all focussed on the issue. We feel bad that the stock has drifted down as low as it did to its two- or three-year all-time lows. Hopefully, that -- the results this quarter and the visibility of our programs will make people somewhat more comfortable about what the program is as we go out into '06 and '07. We think we have the right strategies. We think that we have revenue- and value-creating programs. And we're committed to the path we're on. We'll be flexible as things give us a chance to change along the way. But we're committed to get the stock back to levels that we think are commensurate with the underlying assets and values that reside there.  

So thank you very much, and, Cathie, I'll give it back to you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Okay. Thanks, Ivan, for those comments, and thanks everyone for joining us this morning. We'll be available to answer any questions that we were not able to reach on the call. Thanks a again.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051110e1ar0011e
  


 HD
 Q2  2005  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
7,929 words
   PD
26 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon second quarter 2005 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed in listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

It is my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Cathie Webster, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.  

   TD
CATHIE WEBSTER, SVP, IR, VERIZON: Welcome to the second quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us. This is Cathie Webster, and with me in New York is Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEO, who will make opening remarks, and Doreen Toben, the Chief Financial Officer, who will review the quarterly results. Ivan and Doreen will take questions.  

Before we get started, let me make sure you are aware that our earnings release, financial statements, the 'Investor Quarterly' publications, and the presentation slides that we will be reviewing, have been made available on our Investor Relations website. This call is also being webcast live at this time. If you would like to replay this call later, you may do so from our website.  

I'd also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking, and subject to risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that may affect future results are contained within this presentation and also contained in our SEC filings, which are on our website.  

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures, as defined under the SEC rules. As required by these rules we have provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the Excel worksheet file, which you can find on the same webpage on our presentation slides.  

One additional item that you should be aware of. As a result of our recent completed sale of access lines and directory operations in Hawaii, we have reclassified certain prior period line items to reflect comparable operating results, excluding Hawaii operations. This treatment is consistent with how we have handled access line sales in the past. These reclassifications only affect revenue, expense, and operating income. Earnings are the same as previously reported.  

You can find these reclassifications in the consolidated statement of income before special items, as well as the Wireline and Information Services segments, financials, and operating specifics. You will find the historical financials with reflect these prior period reclassifications on our website in the financial performances section.  

With that I'll now turn the call over to Ivan for opening remarks. Ivan?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VERIZON: Okay. Thank you, good morning, everyone. As we complete the first half of 2005, I'd like to offer a few observations about our business, specifically the comment on the operation results, our strategy, and focus to build sustainable value to shareholders. You can all see from our release, results show that we have delivered solid operational performance. Revenue growth exceeded 5%, and continues to remain a top priority.  

We continue to generate strong cash flows, maintain margins, and we have a strong balance sheet. We're getting solid contributions to income and cash from international and information services. Our overall capital returns are growing steadily even in the face of increased capital spending. And the capital capacity of the business is sufficient to fund our growth strategy.  

So on an overall basis as we position the Company for the future, we have increased our levels of investment in wireless, and in our domestic telecom business. We see the results of this steady investment today in our wireless results, and we firmly believe that this stepped-up investment is the right long term strategy for the wireline side as well.  

At the corporate level our challenge is always how to allocate capital and resources, and generate the capital returns we need to build long-term value. And while we have a very disciplined approach to capital allocations and spending, we recognize this is an area in which investors closely monitor our results. Doreen and I will address this issue in our comments on this call.  

Now, turning to our major segments. In the wireline business, our strategy is to transform the revenue growth profile around new markets, driving costs out of the traditional business, maintaining margins, and generating cash. After two quarters the performance of our wireline business, shows we are executing against this strategy. We're seeing a steady turnaround in revenue performance, as we ramp up our growth initiatives around broadband, LD and Enterprise Advance. Our challenge, of course, is to move fast enough to develop scale in these growth businesses, to offset the decline in our traditional business.  

We are encouraged that this strategy will revitalize the growth in our domestic telecom business. We've been able to hold margins relatively stable, even as we shift resources away from our traditional business, and increase investments in growth areas. Our fundamental assumption is that secular changes and technological forces will cause the number of access lines to continue to decline.  

In general, we see no real change in this trend, and our approach has been to increase average monthly revenue for the residential customer, to mitigate the effects of declining access lines. Another way we are combating this challenge is by moving aggressively to build FiOS, our broadband growth platform for the future. Long-term value is created through innovation and investment, we're developing a product portfolio and building our marketing skills in growth markets. Later in the call we will provide some additional information on our progress on FiOS.  

And we're positioned to solidify our competitive position in the enterprise market, with our Enterprise Advance initiative, and of course through the planned MCI transaction. So, again, lots of work to do. But we are committed to our strategy and believe our results demonstrate we are transforming our asset base and product set for the future. In the second half of this year, we believe we can be even more aggressive in gaining share in both the consumer broadband market and enterprise segments. At the same time, we will look for ways to further mitigate the impacts of access line decline, as we move into 2006.  

Now, turning to Verizon Wireless, we came into 2005 having established Verizon Wireless as the top performing wireless company in the industry, with consolidation taking place in the wireless industry, investor questions centered around the sustainability of our extraordinary growth and performance. After the first two quarters of the year, it is clear that Verizon Wireless is still the best performing wireless franchise, and continues to break its own records.  

Our wireless team is driven to better than own record setting standards of excellence. They just delivered the most net adds and the lowest churn. We gained market share and still drove excellent cash flows. They are building for the future with investments and new technologies, like EV-DO, and innovation in new products, like video and data, that expand the wireless market, and they continue to execute and deliver value to customers and shareholders quarter after quarter.  

So while the game is still on and there is always more to do, the first two quarters show that even in a consolidating industry, investors should have the confidence, that as others strive to meet the industry-leading performance of Verizon Wireless, it does not come at the expense of Verizon Wireless. This is an important message and is actually positive for the entire wireless sector. Doreen will provide more information on both telco and wireless results, and provide more CapEx commentary, as well as update you on our 2005 and CapEx outlook during her review.  

Finally here is a quick update on the MCI transaction. We are working to complete the process with the SEC to clear our S-4 registration statement. We filed an amendment to the S-4 with the SEC about a week ago, and we are working on another filing that we would like to make as soon as possible. The timing of the completion of the process with the SEC will determine the date of the shareholder vote.  

The federal and state regulatory approvals are proceeding. To date, we have 12 state approvals and we have most of them--frankly all of them, scheduled for completion prior to the end of the year. So, therefore, we are working towards closing this transaction, hopefully by the end of 2005.  

Now, with that by way of an update, let's review second quarter results. Doreen?  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, Ivan. Our second quarter results show that we have executed against our stated business goals of good earnings performance, solid revenue growth, and a strong cost focus. We are once again pleased with the operating metrics in our key areas of growth. Adjusted EPS was $0.63 for the quarter. This figure excludes the effects of some special items, which I will cover in a minute.  

Adjusted consolidated revenues grew 5.1% compared with the second quarter last year. This is our fifth quarter in a row of better than 5% consolidated revenue growth. Wireline revenue trends have improved, with sequential growth across all major lines of business. As Verizon Wireless, our best quarter ever with record high gross and net adds, with record low churn, as well. We continue to generate very good growth in data services, and we are seeing increased demand for our broadband products. Lastly, we are focused on maintaining margin stability, as we continue to improve productivity and drive costs out of the business, as we devote the necessary resources to our growth opportunities.  

Moving to earnings, let me quickly cover the effects of some of the special items in the quarter. Reported EPS was $0.75. This included a $0.12 after-tax gain on the sale of wireline and directory operations in Hawaii. We also recognized $0.09 of PAC benefits related to prior year investment losses, which we can now utilize as a result of the Hawaii sale. Lastly we recognize an $0.08 charge for net tax expenses both foreign and domestic, related to repatriation of foreign earnings, primarily from Vodafone Omnitel. Excluding the net effects of these three items, we had an adjusted EPS of $0.63 for the second quarter.  

As Cathie noted, financial history above the operating income line has been adjusted to reflect the absence of Hawaii operations for purposes of comparability. Total revenues grew 5.1% this quarter, led by Verizon Wireless which improved total revenues by 14.6%, driven by record customer growth and increases in data revenues. Wireline revenues continue to stabilize, declining only 0.5%, sequentially revenues increase 78 million. Combining information services and international revenues, results in just about a 1% increase year-over-year.  

On the expense side, we continue to focus on managing our controllable costs. Cash expenses, excluding depreciation and pension and OPEB costs, were up 252 million or 2.3% on a sequential basis. In Wireline, these expenses were up 110 million, or 2% from first quarter. Wireless cash expense was up about 3.4% from first quarter, primarily results of our record-high growth customer adds. On a sequential basis cash expense per customer declined, and was the second lowest in the Company's history.  

On a consolidated basis, adjusted operating income margins excluding pension and OPEB costs were 29% for the second quarter, an increase of 50 basis points sequentially, and down 90 basis points year-over-year. Margin performance at Verizon Wireless continued to be excellent, the second highest margin in the Company's history, and up sequentially. Our Wireline margins excluding pension and OPEB costs remain steady, although down slightly, both sequentially and year-over-year. Again, more details to follow during the segment reviews.  

A final word on information services and international. Together these segments generated 526 million of income, representing about 30% of our consolidated bottom line results.  

Shifting to capital spending as Ivan said, our strategy continues to be to allocate capital to fund the platforms for growth and capacity. In wireless, we continue to build the capacity in our core network to preserve our position as America's most reliable network, while at the same time we are investing to bring true 3G broadband services to the market. On the Wireline side, our FiOS fiber deployment, as well as Enterprise Advance, continue to be priority items, as far as capital spending.  

In the second quarter, we spent 4.1 billion bringing our first half total spending to just short of 7.7 billion. Year to date, 4 billion is in the wireline business and 3.3 billion is in wireless. More than 70% of this spending is allocated to the growth platforms of wireless and broadband. As you would expect, some of the capital spending to date relates to building our video network architecture.  

On the network side, we have completed construction of two national super-head ends. We are also well along in the process of building regional video hub offices in certain metro areas, for the distribution of national content, and the insertion of local regional programming. As we add more metro area markets for FiOS TV in the future, we'll build more of the VHOs.  

Earlier this year we indicated that we expected 2005 capital expenditures to increase by about 10% over our 2004 spending of 13.3 billion. We now see the increase to be more in the 15% range, as a result of the very strong growth at Verizon Wireless, and some increased spending related to the FiOS deployment as we get ready to roll out video, and do the planning and engineering work to prepare for our 2006 deployment.  

To reiterate what Ivan said, we have a very disciplined internal process relating to capital allocation and spending. We believe it is strategically important to adequately fund growth in the key areas of wireless and broadband.  

Before I move into the segment review, let's cover cash flows and debt. Cash flow from operations was 6 billion this quarter. You will recall that the first quarter included the Vodaphone dividend, and one-time cash outlays for pension plan prefunding. Total debt increased to 41.8 billion, from 39.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.  

As I indicated on last quarter's call, this was expected as a result of several wireless spectrum purchases and the purchase of the MCI shares from Carlos Slim. At this level we are below our stated goal of less than a 1.5 times debt to EBITDA ratio.  

Let us move into the segments, beginning with Wireless. This was our best quarter ever, built on a foundation of best-ever quarters. Highest gross adds, highest net adds, lowest churn, virtually our six straight quarter of 1 billion year-over-year revenue increases, and near-record high margins. We continue to be proud of the accomplishments of our wireless team, as they have once again posted the best performance metrics in the industry. It is clear that Verizon Wireless has consistently outperformed all other wireless companies.  

We approached 2 million net adds, almost all of them post-paid retail. We had a very small number of prepaid and reseller net adds in the quarter. We had record customer loyalty levels with total churn of 1.22%. We were able to absorb price decreases and handle increased volumes and still deliver excellent EBITDA margins, testimony to the efficiency of our business.  

And, finally, Wireless continues to drive strong cash flow growth with 2.5 billion in CFFO. Overall growth in the wireless industry remains very strong, and Verizon Wireless's relative growth is even stronger as we gain share on our competitors. This quarter our local number of portability results were stronger than the first quarter, for every major carrier we have improved the local number portability ratio. Our total customer base now stands at stands 47.4 million. We have added nearly 7 million customers over the past 4 quarters.  

Service ARPU in the second quarter was $49.42. This is up sequentially but down modestly year-over-year. As you can see from this chart, we continue to increase our base of post-paid retail customers, which now comprise 92.4% of our total customer base. And we continue to set new records when it comes to churns. Retail post paid churn is now 1.01% on a base of 44 million customers. That's a decrease of 23 basis points over last year. Our exceptional churn performance continues to increase the long-term value of our customer base. These are very impressive results, given the competitive nature of the industry, and a tribute to our focus on customer satisfaction and superior service.  

We're also expanding our wireless data business, which in the first half of 2005 was almost half a billion dollar business for us. Data now stands at 7% of ARPU, or $3.47. 40% of our base of data users and the number of data users has grown by 50% over the past year, as customers respond to the value of our IN-messaging bundles. A good example is picture messaging usage, which has increased 50% just since the first quarter. This is due in part to our IN-messaging plan, and also to the introduction of intraoperability with other carriers during this past quarter.  

We're really excited about the growth in broadband. We're deploying wireless broadband farther and faster than anyone else and customers are buying it. During the quarter, we continue to launch new EV-DO markets, and expand our existing markets. We are on-track to cover about 150 million POPs by year end.  

Today, we cover more than 50 major metropolitan areas and not just a downtown business district for selected hot spots, but throughout those regions. We also have broadband in 57 airports, again, not just in those airports but for miles and miles around them. We have a growing array of devices with five EV-DO handsets and four PC cards, Two PDAs, and there are more on the way.  

Most important, we're seeing a clear demand for wireless broadband, especially in business, and particularly in enterprise, where users are already seeing a return on their investment. We have tripled the number of users for broadband access since the third quarter of last year. We've also seen a sharp uptake in our broadband VCAST service, since we introduced it in February of this year. In all, we are very pleased with the uptake of our broadband services, and with the advantage broadband gives us in the marketplace.  

Our cost performance continues to be very strong. Cash expense per customer was up only slightly over last year, but more important was the second lowest level in our history. Even though we added 11% more gross adds this quarter over a year ago. Again, our low-cost structure is what enables us to be nimble, take market share, and still maintain strong margins.  

As you can see on this chart, we continue to focus on the efficiency of our business. In particular, web-based transactions. For example, we introduced a $20 incentive for customers to pay their bills via electronic payments. Acquisition costs per subscriber are up, due to a higher mix of higher-value handsets which provide more data revenue opportunities for us.  

So to wrap up in Wireless, we had another very strong quarter with great growth and profitability and superb execution. The key focus is, and has always been, cash generation. And that, more than anything else, is what separates Verizon Wireless from anyone else in the industry.  

Moving to our wireline business, revenue trends continued to improve. Of note, we generated sequential growth in consumer, business, and wholesale. Data revenues were strong once again, totaling 2.1 billion, representing a 10.9% year-over-year growth. This growth was driven mainly by data transport, which increased both year-over-year and sequentially. We also added 278,000 broadband connections which includes both DSL and FiOS customers. The demand for consumer packages and bundles continued to be strong, with 60% of our customers subscribing to at least one additional service.  

Cash flows from operations were strong at 2.2 billion. And operating income margins, excluding pension and OPEB costs, remain relatively stable since last quarter at 16%. Let's take a look at wireline revenue by lines of business. Let me reiterate that all major lines of business showed sequential growth.  

Starting with consumer, revenues were up, both sequentially and versus the same quarter last year. This is a significant change in trend, and the first time we have seen quarterly year-over-year growth in a number of years. The story here, is that revenues from DSL and long distance, along with Freedom packages, are mitigating the challenges posed by technology substitution and competition.  

In business, revenues were up sequentially by 32 million or 1.2%, and down only slightly year-over-year. Again, growth here is fueled by data services, broadband and long distance. Wholesale revenues were up sequentially by 1.2% and are essentially the same as second quarter last year. The good news here is that local wholesale rates are driving this improvement. Resulting in opportunities to expand margins.  

Finally, revenues in the 'All other' category were down only 12 million sequentially, and 45 million over last year. Most of the year-over-year decline is from the absence of revenues from activities, either divested or discontinued over the past year. I would also point out that almost the entire 47 million revenue decline in Wireline, can be attributed to this 'All other' category.  

Going forward, this trend of declining revenue in this category will continue. For example, during this quarter, we ended a relationship with a large customer in the area of logistics management, that generated 80 million in quarterly revenue. However, these are generally low margin activities, so shutting down, or unwinding these non-strategic activities will have little effect on profitability.  

Now, let's take a closer look at the volume drivers in each of these markets. In consumer, our approach to the marketplace is to focus on customer retention and loyalty, while increasing the average monthly revenue per customer through these new services and higher penetration of bundles and packages. In the second quarter, average monthly revenue per customer was nearly $51, up more than $3, or 6.4% versus the year-ago quarter, and up $1 sequentially. We have increased these key metrics for five quarters in a row.  

As expected, retail residential lines continue to decline, although the rate of decline continues to be less than it was during all of last year. Broadband remains the key to our strategy in the consumer marketplace. We have now passed the 4 million customer milestone in total broadband lines and service. This includes both DSL and FiOS.  

During the quarter, we added 278,000 new broadband customers. Obviously even as we continue our fiber deployment, and expand our FiOS marketing, increasing the penetration of our DSL customer base, remains a key focus and is critically important for the business.  

To that end, some of the things you will be seeing in the weeks and months ahead, promotional pricing. We will be introducing a Yahoo portal for custo'mers. In addition to using Yahoo as a sales channel, the portal will provide a value-add feature to attract new customers and to help retain current customers. In the next few months we will be more actively marketing 'DSL over dry loop', or 'naked DSL.' We believe this presents a significant new opportunity for us to provide a data solution for the large number of wireless-only households. We will continue to push our 3-megabit service where available. We have seen great success in both sales and churn with this product so far.  

Finally, as far as local DSL marketing goes, we are looking at targeted pricing to compete even more aggressively and effectively in our more competitive markets. We are also testing some creative ideas in the area of bundling, so stay tuned on the marketing front. I would now like to provide an update on our FIOS fiber deployment. Just six months into this initiative we're very pleased with our progress. We remain on track to pass 3 million homes or premises with fiber by the end of 2005. I would note that we won't have all of these premises open for sales. In particular, the multiple dwelling units, as we still are testing the technologies for these buildings.  

We also are preparing to keep up the momentum in 2006. Our engineers are well under way in planning and designing next year's FiOS markets. On the cost side, deployment costs are continuing to go down, as we gain scale and our field technicians become more and more efficient, as they gain valuable experience in installing this technology. We're also very pleased with the stability and reliability of this all new technology platform.  

Most important, customers are really responding to the superior customer experience we are offering with FiOS. Looking at the Texas market where we have been marketing the longest, the average penetration rate is about 15%. Our customer churn levels are exceedingly low, and customer satisfaction is very high. We are firm believers that when it comes to broadband, speed sells.  

On the video front, we are pleased with our progress in acquiring content, and we expect to roll out commercial video services to selective communities later this year. We have secured lots of great content, and will continue to be very active with content providers and developers as we move ahead. Although we have not signaled any pricing, you can expect that our offer will be competitively priced. Operationally we currently have video trials going on with a few hundred paying customers. In these trials we are testing various aspects of video functionality, including provisioning, maintenance and system flow-through, as well as the aspects of the video product itself. So the bottom line is that we continue to make lots of progress with the FiOS rollout.  

Another area I want to touch on is video franchising which we are tackling on three fronts. First at the local level, we have secured franchises in eight markets to date, and another 15 are nearing completion. We have negotiations under way in more than 200 communities, so we expect the number of franchises to increase quite a bit as we move through the year. We believe we will have the necessary franchise agreements in place to support our video rollout plan for 2005.  

The next two fronts are at the state and federal legislative levels. Some states already have shown a keen interest in passing legislation to expedite the process through the granting of state-wide franchise. We look forward to successful legislation in Texas. We believe that Texas is a when, not if, situation, as the legislation has received overwhelming support in both houses of the Texas legislature. In New Jersey, we believe we can address this issue after the November elections and when the legislature is back in session.  

Finally, at the federal level we have been successful in getting this issue on the radar of Congress, and are hopeful that national legislation may address this issue in the foreseeable future. I want to stress though, our legislative effort is designed to streamline this process so that we can more quickly bring video choice to more consumers, while bringing additional franchise revenues to their municipalities. We're managing through this issue and believe our 3-prong strategy will give us entry into this marketplace. We think that, as more and more consumers see the obvious choice and value we can bring to the video market and their communities, our initiatives to simplify and reform this cumbersome process will pick up steam.  

Next is business. For revenues includes small, medium and enterprise customers. In the large business or enterprise market, you will recall that we showed a turnaround in enterprise revenue growth during the course of 2004, managing to hold annual revenues relatively steady at around 6 billion. That trend has continued in 2005, and we experience sequential growth in the second quarter.  

Within the enterprise markets, pricing structures are continuing to evolve. As you would expect, a fairly high percentage of new contracts are priced with certain volume commitments and associated discounts. Products with strong growth include our SONET-based products, transparent LAN services, and data sales outside of our traditional exchange boundaries.  

We are seeing an improved mix of Enterprise Advance contracts. By that I mean, a higher proportion of these contract revenues will involve recurring network services and less on CPE. The declining product lines are the older, more traditional products like Centrex, basic exchange services, and older low-speed data circuits. In the highly competitive small and medium-sized business market, we're focused on customer retention and have been actively pushing our Verizon Freedom for business, as well as DSL. We have shown steady improvement in the number of small-business customers taking Freedom packages, and we have excellent excellent growth in DSL for small-business customers.  

Moving on to wholesale, on the local wholesale side, as you might expect, we continue to see a loss of UNE-P line. However, many of our wholesale local voice connections are now under commercial agreement, providing some stability to this revenue base at higher prices. Total voice connections which include both UNE-P and resale lines, declined by 204,000, more than 47% of our wholesale local voice connections are now under commercial agreements. Revenue per wholesale line is going up. The bottom line here is that we see opportunities for margin improvement in this line of business.  

On the carrier side, we continue to see strong volumes for DS1 and DS3, as well as other high-speed data services. Before moving to cost management, let me review a chart that I showed you last quarter, which demonstrates how technology is changing the way we look at different metrics within the business. No question, switch to access lines continued to decline, as customers migrate away from dial-up modems, and substitute other technologies like wireless and voice. Keep in mind that some of the migration is coming to Verizon Wireless, and to our own broadband connects with DSL and FiOS.  

We're growing vertically instead of horizontally. As I mentioned before, our average revenue per customer is going up and our data revenues are growing at almost 11% a year. The story here is that while access lines are declining, overall wireline revenues are stabilizing, particularly when you look at the consumer market. On the substantive cost management, we continue to focus intently on driving costs out of the traditional business, while shifting resources to growth opportunities.  

Over the past year, our workforce additions have been to support FiOS, Enterprise, and Information Technology, where we have replaced high-priced contractors with our own employees. The force level supporting our traditional business are actually down. We think that head count will remain relatively flat for the rest of the year. Back fills will be limited, as we redeploy people to growth areas of the business. Salary and wages are down sequentially, driven by tight overtime controls and fewer resources dedicated to the traditional business.  

It is imperative that we remain focused on good old-fashioned cost management, through productivity improvement and other cost efficiencies. This is especially important as we begin to sell more and more new services which have driven up the cost of sales. As you can imagine, we track all types of metrics related to employee productivity, including jobs per day, installation times, revenues per call to our call centers, and the like.  

In addition, there are a number of automation initiatives in the wholesale and enterprise space. On the residential customer side, our sales reps are consistently improving the revenue-per-call-handled metrics. We also continue to push our self-service web-based transactions on Verizon.com, where we have seen an almost 30% increase in a number of people paying their bills online. Lastly, we see further opportunities for savings in the areas of real estate and call center management.  

To sum up, we are confident in our overall strategic direction and very pleased with another quarter of strong results in executing our plans. Once again, we have demonstrated our ability to manage our business efficiently, deliver excellent service and innovation to customers, and invest in platforms that will drive future growth. This we believe is a winning formula that has produced sustained excellence at Verizon Wireless, is transforming the revenue profile in our wireline business, and will create value and growth over the long term.  

That's all, Cathie, I'll turn it back to you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Thanks, Doreen. Operator, I believe we're ready for our questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Your first question is from David Barden of Banc of America. Please go ahead.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, thanks. Maybe two just kind of strategic questions brought up by the results and your comments, Doreen. First, on the pricing for the DSL, and kind of your outlook with respect to targeted promotion things. You guys have been fairly steady in your pricing for the last year or so, as you guys have been battling against Cable Vision, Time Warner, and wireless substitution forces. Could you talk little bit about why now, and specifically how you're planning on using the pricing, is it preventive? In new markets? Or targeted towards win-backs of old markets and some more strategic thoughts there?  

Secondly, on the wireless side, obviously very strong growth in adds and retention. On the ARPU side, there was kind of a reversal of a trend over the last couple of years for growth in that metric. And it looks like there was a decision to kind of turn the corner a little bit in terms of taking share now, as opposed to focusing on individual subscriber revenues, and could you talk a little bit about, kind of based on the success you have this quarter, how you plan to develop that directionally over the rest of the year and into 2006? Thanks a lot.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. Hey, David, I think I'll take them backwards. I'll start with the ARPU. You know, we had an incredibly strong quarter. We had really good revenue growth. We had good margins. Most importantly, we had good cash flow. So if you look at all the metrics on Verizon wireless, extremely strong quarter.  

If you look at going back five quarters, we've probably had accretion over the past five quarters. We've had mild dilution this one, a modest number. We feel what we got this quarter, we picked up a lot in the youth segment, which is something we wanted to do. We clearly took share, as well as reduced churn. So we were very happy with the results that we had. We also saw sequential ARPU accretion.  

Going forward what we'll take a look at is what--you never give forward-looking guidance of where you think ARPU will go, but clearly data plays a major role in going forward in what we're going to do. We have made some handset pricing moves going forward. So we'll just take a look at the mixes as we go forward. Once again, you know, we think we hit on all cylinders. If you look at the margin, the cash flow is really strong and had a good quarter.  

If I move over to the DSL question, I think what you're seeing, as I said in the script, we have the Yahoo portal coming on this quarter. We needed to do some systems work that has taken us some time to really be able to do some targeted competitive on pricing, which I think you'll see us do this quarter which really took some system initiatives.  

I am pleased to say for the first quarter we're actually EBITDA positive in DSL, and when I give you that number it is an all-in count, everything, it is a major first step from us that gives us a lot more -- it will give us some flexibility. So I think we'll take a look, now that we're EBITDA-positive, now that we have our systems in place to do some target segmentation, we have Yahoo! to help us, we'll see where we go with DSL pricing.  

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Okay. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from John Hodulik of UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: First, on the wireline revenues, you are showing some improving trends quarter-to-quarter, and being down less than 1% this quarter. Can you talk about the outlook the rest of the year? You are seeing strong growth on the consumer side and very strong growth in data. How see the business segment led by data to play out for the rest of the year, and can we expect to see some revenue growth in the second half?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think we're certainly encouraged by all the trends we saw. Data in particular, and we saw it across all product lines. Not just DSL. We saw it in special access. You would need to go through all of them. That was certainly encouraging. We see in Enterprise Advance, it continues. We told you last year it was doing well, it continues to do really well this year.  

Even though we have the MCI acquisition, we have not taken our foot off the gas in really trying to do that, and so we think that will be certainly helpful. We've been also, you know, we've also been encouraged on the consumer side, you know, in what we're seeing with the ARPU.  

So I think we're having, you know, we have better coverage in business, you know, we have new products coming out, and so I would tell you that we're encouraged with, you know, where we think we're going with the business revenue and the TELCO revenue in general.  

JOHN HODULIK: On the retail business lines do you see a drag from the dialup ports? How many of these dialup ports do you have in the network that you expect to lose, and when are they going to sort of fall out?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think that one is just about done. So we're happy to say, very small if there is anything left into the next quarter.  

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Timothy Horan, CIBC World Markets.  

TIMOTHY HORAN, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: On the wireless side, have you continued, in terms of to see this strong results in subscriber growth in June and in to July, and would there be anything to change that? And maybe give us a little bit more color why you think it did so well in the quarter? Was it promotions on the family plan side, was it EV-DO data only, I know you're highlighting the strengths in the overall businesses, but was there anything more specific? Thank you.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Tim, Ivan here. I think I would say that the performance in wireless was pretty steady throughout the whole quarter. You know, we've been visiting all the stores around the country, and we have seen a steady flow into our stores throughout the whole three months, and we feel confident we're sustaining that as we move through July.  

I think the big issue is we refreshed our America Choice. We had a lot of new handsets come onto the market. People are excited about the prospects of EV-DO. And we just think that we have a lot of excitement around the things that the customers see that we're doing.  

Also, being named leading wireless carrier by the magazines, all of these things have an effect of driving traffic. The proof of the pudding is, that we've had the best growth adds that we've had in a long time. So I think that people feel that we've made the investments in wireless, and they're responding by buying the products.  

JOHN HODULIK: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, good morning. I wandered to follow up on the CapEx if you could help us think about what some of the key drivers are. I understand the gross adds have changed. But on FiOS, where is the delta versus where you were at the start of the year? If I look at the guidance, it implies spending in the second half is equivalent to first half spending, and also to second half of last year, where normally there is a back-end loading to CapEx. What is different this year? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hey, Simon. I would say if you look at the increase, it is primarily in the wireless area, to tell you the truth. You are seeing probably we have probably higher gross adds, net adds than we expected. So we have some capacity issues.  

We will always continue to have the best network quality and value, and we're certainly not going to compromise that position. We have some build-out in some of the spectrum and properties that we've purchased that we're going to do on the wireless side. And on the network side, there is some, you know, piece of FiOS.  

The other piece that you'll probably see at the end of the year is the actually building in Basking Ridge that we purchased, falls into capital as well. So it should be flatter, might be a little bit up, to tell you the truth, at the second half of the year, especially in the fourth quarter.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Mike McCormack of Bear, Stearns.  

MIKE MCCORMACK, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning, guys.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Hey, Mike.  

MIKE MCCORMACK: Couple of quick ones. First on margin, looks like you had about a 70 basis point sequential decline on the wireline side. Is that all FiOS-related, and how should we look at that through the balance of the year? Secondly, maybe just some comment on seasonality for access lines? Can you quantify for us what that impact was, and maybe just a comment on Vonage and Cable Vision voice-over-IP adds?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. That was a lot. Let me start back on the margins. On the margin, and I assume you're taking the pension and OPEB out. when you look at the wireline.  

MIKE MCCORMACK: Correct.  

DOREEN TOBEN: So if you take that out I would suggest that it really is--it is all FiOS. Probably round numbers it might be worth as much as $0.06 to us in the first half of the year, so that is what has put some pressure on the margins, not unexpected from where we expected it to be. Before you get to Vonage? What was the one before the Vonage and Cable Vision you had?  

MIKE MCCORMACK: Seasonal impact on access lines.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Seasonal. Okay. If you look at the first and second quarter and go back and track history, we're anyplace from 80 to 90,000 to as much as 200,000 a quarter. You can go back literally for years and say that -- So would I tell you, you know, is around a 100,000 is normal seasonal, I would suggest that is about the right number. And then as far as the others, as you would imagine, we don't have perfect vision into what those folks are doing, but I would suggest that we've probably seen a pickup, particularly in the VoIP in the northeast region this quarter.  

MIKE MCCORMACK: Thanks, guys.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Operator, we can take one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Michael Rollins , Citigroup Smith Barney.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Can you hear me?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I can hear you now.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Doreen, Ivan, quick question on bringing the wireless and the wireline facilities together in New Jersey. Can you talk about maybe some of your efforts more in bundling these products together, and what you're looking to get out of bringing these organizations closer together?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Michael, I think there are two different issues here. I think one is just a physical issue, that we have what I would consider to be headquarters/staff operation. As far as bringing the organizations together, we thought this was an appropriate way to get the benefit.  

The second question centers around service conversion. We're pretty convinced that over time, that having our people cohabitate, that we will accelerate the introduction of integrated product bundles. I'm not sure we're in a position to identify specific products, but we do have a whole array of things we're working on, to try and take advantage of this arrangement.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Thank you for joining us everyone. My staff will be available today to answer any additional questions that you have. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may now disconnect your line, and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050809e17q000ji
  


 HD
 Q1  2005  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,352 words
   PD
27 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome come to the Verizon first-quarter earnings conference call. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Cathie Webster, Senior Vice President Investor Relations of Verizon.  

CATHIE WEBSTER, SVP IR, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our first-quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Cathie Webster. With me in New York this morning is Doreen Tobin, our Chief Financial Officer, who will review our quarterly results. At the end of Doreen's presentation, she and Ivan Seidenberg, our Chief Executive Officer, will answer some questions.  

   TD
Before we get started, let me make sure you are aware that our earnings release, financial statement, the investor quarterly publication, and the presentation slides that we will be reviewing have been made available on our Investor Relations website since 7:30 this morning. This call is also being webcast live at this time. If you would like to replay any or all parts of this call at a later date, you can do so from our website where we will be archiving this call. In addition, a 48-hour replay by phone will be available beginning at noon today. The dial-in number for this replay is 877-519-4471, and the conference ID is 575-9428.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. Information in this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements we claim protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Discussion of factors that may affect future results are contained within this presentation and is also contained in our SEC filings, which are on our website.  

This presentation also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SBC rules. As required by these rules, we have provided reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the Excel worksheet file, which you can find on the same webpage as our presentation slides. With that, Doreen?  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Thanks, Cathie. Good morning, everyone. Our first-quarter results show that we are off to a terrific start in 2005 with good earnings performance, improving revenue growth, solid cost controls, and sustained margins. All business segments executed well this quarter. We are especially pleased with the strong operating metrics in key growth areas which drove our very solid financial performance.  

EPS was $0.63 for the quarter, an increase of 8.6% over adjusted EPS in the first quarter last year. There were no special items in the quarter. This is the second quarter in a row of solid growth in earnings, something we have not seen for several years. This is particularly notable given the fact that pension and OPEB costs are once again higher than the prior year and depress earnings.  

Consolidated revenues of 18.2 billion grew 6.6% compared with the first quarter last year. This represents another quarter of improved growth, comparing favorably with the 6.2% increase in the fourth quarter. Growth was driven once again by Verizon Wireless, which increased total revenue by more than 20% for the fifth consecutive quarter. We turned in another quarter of strong and stable margins, demonstrating sustainability as we continue absorbing the cost of growth through productivity and cost efficiencies.  

We continue to see very healthy growth and increasing demand for our broadband and data products and services. I'm talking about both business and consumer markets in the wireline and wireless segments. I will go into more detail on some of these key metrics in a few minutes when reviewing the segment results. We believe the investments we are making in the wireless, broadband, and enterprise markets will serve us well. We're committed to funding the platform and capacity for future growth by allocating the necessary resources and capital to succeed.  

Moving to slide 5, let's take a look at revenues. This chart shows improving year-over-year growth and a stable picture sequentially. Verizon Wireless's revenue growth was once again driven by very strong net adds and increased service ARPU year-over-year. Wireline revenues declined 1.2%, which is an improvement over recent levels of decline and a good sign in terms of revenue stabilization. In fact, it is the lowest level of decline in nearly four years. When added together information services and international first-quarter revenues increased 1.9% over last year.  

On the expense side we continue to do a good job managing our controllable cash costs. In wireline cash expenses excluding pension and OPEB have remained relatively flat at 5.7 billion per quarter. On a sequential basis these costs were down 31 million. On a year-over-year basis they are up slightly at 57 million. I'll provide more detail a bit later in the segment review.  

In wireless, our scale, distribution, productivity programs, and low churn once again resulted in strong expense control as we saw a decline in cash expenses even as revenues increased over fourth quarter. Although it is combined with international on the chart, cash expenses at information services declined both sequentially and year-over-year, resulting and solid margin improvement.  

On a consolidated basis, adjusting operating income margins excluding pensions and OPEB were 20.5% for the first quarter, an increase of 20 basis points both sequentially and year-over-year. Margin performance at Verizon Wireless continued to be excellent, and increased both sequentially and year-over-year. Our wireline margins excluding pension and OPEB costs remained relatively steady, although down slightly both sequentially and year-over-year. Again, more details to follow during the segment reviews.  

A final word on information services and international. Together these segments generated 622 million of income, representing 35% of our consolidated bottom-line results.  

Shifting to capital spending, our strategy is to allocate capital to fund the platforms for growth and capacity. In our case this is best accomplished through the deployment of new technologies, particularly broadband. This includes our fiber initiative and wireless 3G. In wireless we're also continuing to bolster capacity in the core network to ensure our position as America's most reliable network. In addition, we continue to expand our data networking capabilities to support the organic growth of our enterprise business.  

In the first quarter we spent a total of 3.6 billion, compared with 2.6 billion a year ago. In addition to a higher level of spending, the percentage of gross CapEx to total is also increasing. These increases are in the areas of higher growth -- consumer broadband, wireless, and data networking. We are about on plan with our fiber build initiatives, and ahead of plan with our wireless 3G deployment expansion.  

Before I move into our segment review, let's talk a bit about cash flows and debt. As noted earlier cash flow from operations were just under 4 billion for the quarter. While this amount is lower than our usual quarterly run rate, it was expected. This quarter included the prefunding of about 600 million for certain qualified domestic pension plans, and 100 million for the Puerto Rico telephone company. Based on our current view this should represent all contributions required in 2005 and 2006 for the domestic plan.  

In addition, we paid a little more than 900 million in minority interest dividends in the quarter, which was about 250 million more than first quarter last year. These are primarily to Vodafone. We also paid about 500 million in taxes during the quarter related to the prior year's sales of Canadian directories and Telus shares.  

For comparison purposes, I would also point out that the 4 billion in CFFO last year was lower than usual. You will recall that we paid about 1.2 billion in severance payments during the first quarter a year-ago. In addition, the first quarter last year included tax refunds. Excluding the effect of these items CFFO would have increased.  

Total debt decreased by about 80 million from year-end to 39.2 billion. Looking ahead to the next quarter, it is likely that debt will be somewhat higher due in part to our wireless spectrum purchases from NextWave, which closed earlier this month, and Metro PCS, which was a much smaller number. This 3 billion-plus cash outflow will be offset in part by about 1.3 billion in proceeds we are expecting from the sale of our Hawaii access lines to the Carlisle Group. At this point in time we are not sure of the timing of the purchase of the MCI shares from Carlos Slim.  

Let's move into some more details about the segments. I'll start with wireless, which started the year right where we left off, with industry-leading strong performance across the board. Net adds were a strong 1.6 million, a first-quarter record, coupled with an all-time record low churn of 1.3%. These adds, together with a 2.1% increase in service ARPU, led to strong revenue growth, margins, and cash flows.  

EBITDA margins were a very strong 41% for the quarter, about the same as last year, with much higher customer growth, and CFFO was a very strong 3 billion. Service revenues for the quarter grew at a rate of 19.2%, while total revenues grew slightly over 20%. ARPU was strong, gaining almost a dollar over the past year, or 2.1%. As you'll see in a minute, data is an important contributor to this ARPU performance.  

Net adds of 1.64 million set a new first-quarter record and increased 18% over last year. We now have 45.5 million total customers, up 16.8%. As you will see on this next slide we continue to have the highest quality customer base in the industry.  

We continue to improve the quality of our base by emphasizing postpaid plans and service contracts. As a result, 92% of our base and all but 58,000 of our organic net adds consist of postpaid retail customers. One of the real headline numbers this quarter is the best-in-class total churn of 1.33%. For postpaid retail customers, it was even lower, 1.11%. Both of these are new record lows for us, and we believe a remarkable result in light of the competition in the industry. Very impressive numbers that clearly demonstrate the industry-leading loyalty of Verizon Wireless customers.  

I would also point out that on a local number of portability front we continue to have a net positive customer flow from all major carriers.  

Wireless data is an important contributor to ARPU and revenue growth. Wireless data is now a 1.7 billion annualized revenue stream. Data revenues are now at 6.3% of ARPU, or about $3.11 per customer. More than 87% of our customers now have data-enabled devices, up from about 63% just a year-ago. Almost 40% of our customers are active data users. We believe our success will be even more robust as we continue to increase our 3G coverage nationally. We are ahead of our plan to reach 150 million covered pops by year end.  

So far we are very pleased with the acceptance of our broadband access product with business customers, who use it primarily for remote mobile access from their laptops. We are seeing significant adoption among existing enterprise customers.  

On the consumer side we are very pleased with the trends on V CAST, our new broadband video service which we launched in February. We currently offer more than 300 newly updated video clips daily, movie previews, mobile episodes of TV shows, music videos, sports updates, and the like. We are obviously very bullish about the wireless data opportunity, as it represents a significant growth area for with terrific margins.  

We are growing not only fast but also profitably. Our margins remain very strong even with higher growth. On the cash expense per customer side the slight increase is driven primarily by 6.5% growth in retail gross adds. We continue to have the lowest overall cost structure in the industry. Our cost of acquisition is up only slightly year-over-year and was actually down sequentially. That is because we continue to focus on distribution not only as a way to differentiate our service, but also a way to manage our costs.  

During the quarter 68% of our retail gross adds came through Verizon Wireless direct channels. At the same time we saw a doubling in the use of sales service Web transactions. And customers per employee continued to increase, another key measure of productivity.  

Moving to slide 15, we are intensely focused on maintaining our position as America's most reliable network. We measure our network quality a number of ways, some of which are on this chart. The bottom line is that our network usage continues to grow strongly while improving the customer experience. Our ineffective attempts and lost calls have been very low for a long time, but we're never satisfied and continuously work to bring these down even further.  

At the same time we have lowered our cost to deliver the service. Even as we invest steadily in our network to preserve our industry-leading position, we also focus on increasing the efficiency of each investment dollar through very purposeful and efficient engineering and technology decisions. Our network quality is the foundation for our success and market leadership position, and we believe this will continue to be a key to winning in the marketplace and driving value in our wireless business.  

Moving to our wireline business, where we are seeing revenue stabilization and continued solid margin performance. Looking at the highlights, data revenues were strong once again, exceeding 2 billion in the quarter, 11.6% higher than first quarter last year. Growth was driven by data transport, which increased by 200 million year-over-year and is also up sequentially 71 million. We added a net new 385,000 broadband lines, the vast majority of which were DSL lines, resulting in our best by far quarterly DSL line growth.  

As you know adding broadband customers is a key part of our loyalty and retention strategy. We had another strong quarter in adding customers through our popular Freedom packages. Our penetration rate for customers with bundles that include an access line and one or more key services is now 58%.  

Our cash flows remain healthy. CFFO totaled 2 billion, about the same level as reported a year-ago. The 600 million pension fund contribution I mentioned earlier is part of these segment cash flows. Operating income excluding pensions and OPEB remained relatively stable at 1.6 billion resulting in a 16.9% margin.  

Let's take a look at the wireline revenues by line of business. Before starting I want to point out that we have moved around some revenues and eliminations within the lines of business to better match results with internal management accountability. For purposes of comparability all prior periods have been reclassified. Overall these changes had no significant effect on growth trends.  

Okay, so let's begin our revenue review with consumer. Revenues were flat sequentially and down about 41 million from first quarter last year. Once again revenues from long distance and DSL, along with our Freedom packages, are helping to offset the challenges posed by technology substitution and competition. In business, revenues were down 125 million sequentially due primarily to higher CPE sales in the fourth quarter, which is fairly typical. Year-over-year we were up slightly.  

Wholesale revenues were essentially the same both sequentially and year-over-year. Here, increases in special access and local wholesale continue to offset the declines in switched access usage. Finally, revenues in the all other category were down 33 million on a sequential basis and 69 million year-over-year. The sequential declines are primarily in businesses like operator services, payphones, and logistics management.  

More than half of the year-over-year decrease reflects the absence of revenues from activities either divested or discontinued over the past year. An example would be BBNT, which we sold in the second quarter 2004.  

Now let's take a closer look at the volume drivers in each of these markets. Our approach in the consumer market is to focus on customer retention and loyalty, while increasing monthly ARPU to mitigate the secular changes brought on by technology substitution. In the first quarter average monthly revenue per customer was $49.95, up more than $2.00 or 4.6% from year-ago levels. Once again this is driven by the strong performance of broadband and long distance. We are seeing an improving trend in the level of retail residential line losses due to both UNE-P declines and our win-back programs. Wireless and broadband substitution are still the main reasons we continue to experience residential line erosion.  

As you know one of our key initiatives in the consumer market is our fiber deployment strategy. Let me provide some information by way of an update. We have dedicated resources including 7,500 people and are allocating the necessary capital to ensure the success of this strategically important project. We have equipped more than 100 wire centers or central offices in 14 states, and continue to make progress toward our goal of passing a total of 3 million homes by the end of the year. After fieldwork is complete, some additional administrative work is required before the homes are open for sale.  

We are now open for sale in over 250 communities. Our marketing efforts are going well as we start out in each community with a grass-roots approach, which is very local and very targeted. By that I mean door hangers, fliers, direct mail, a FiOS promotional vehicle in the neighborhood or at the supermarket. We are getting a strong response to this startup approach. In direct mail we are seeing a significantly higher response than normal. When critical mass is achieved within the community, we then shift to a broader marketing approach. So far we are encouraged by the take rates we are seeing in the communities we are marketing to.  

We continue to make good progress with our plans for offering video later this year. Verizon FiOS TV will offer customers a better alternative to cable or satellite. In addition to cable and broadcast channels, FiOS TV will also deliver hundreds of other digital video channels, high-definition programming, video on demand content, music channels, and an interactive programming guide and other customer-friendly features. This is by no means a me-too alternative; it will be truly differentiated.  

You are also probably aware of the many content agreements we currently have in place. Some were announced as recently as last week. Content providers are responding very well to the opportunities for alternative distribution and higher bandwidth. In sum, we are pleased with our progress and remain very excited about the opportunities that fiber provides us.  

As I said, we believe having a Verizon broadband connection is a key element of both our growth and customer retention strategy. At the end of March we had more than 3.9 million total broadband lines in service. This includes both DSL and FiOS. We have significantly increased the number of DSL customers under annual contracts. Having customer sign these contracts has been very beneficial to churn management and has not deducted from our gross sales.  

Next is business, where revenues include small, medium, and enterprise customers. In the large business market you will recall that we showed a big turnaround in enterprise revenue growth during the course of 2004, managing to hold revenues relatively steady at around 6 billion, while others in this market continued to experience decline. That trend has continued in the first quarter as year-over-year enterprise revenues increased slightly. In addition to our Enterprise Advance initiative, our strategy with large business customers is to retain a greater share of the market for core transport products, by focusing on key accounts and improving our service and provisioning times.  

As far as Enterprise Advance is concerned we continue to have an evolving suite of new data products and services. Our sales bookings in the first quarter are up significantly as the additional resources we have devoted to this initiative are capturing growth. We continue to expand the reach of our network and its capabilities for customers. We remain very focused on continuously improving our business processes, driving productivity, and delivering solid margins.  

In the highly competitive small and medium-sized business market, we are focused on customer retention and have been actively pushing our Verizon Freedom for business products and services. We have shown steady improvement in the number of small-business customers taking Freedom packages, which we believe has helped the line loss to some degree. You can see on the chart the improved overall picture when it comes to retail business line losses, especially if you exclude ISDN line losses related to the expiration of certain dial-up port contracts such as UUNet, for example.  

Dial-up carriers typically sign volume purchase contracts for a certain number of access lines, which we count in our switched access line metrics. With the significant drop-off in demand for ISP dial-up, once these ISP contracts with us reach expiration we generally lose the line. There are about 158,000 lines lost in the quarter that fall into this category. These line losses will continue as dial-up businesses continue to lose customers to broadband. We expect to lose approximately 75,000 more lines for this reason next quarter.  

Moving to wholesale. On the carrier side of wholesale, the focus is obviously on data services. The main driver here is higher data transport revenue. We are encouraged by the pickup we are seeing in demand for our transport services. DS1s and DS3s have all been consistently trending up with year-over-year growth of about 12% and 8% respectively.  

On the local wholesale side we have decided to use new terminology to characterize UNE-P and resale lines, calling them wholesale voice connections. During the quarter the number of these types of lines declined by 200,000. Our strategy in this area is to seek commercial agreements with competitive carriers in order to continue to provide them with end to end wholesale solutions, but at higher prices. To date we have been fairly successful. At the end of the quarter we had a 40-plus% of our former UNE-P base under some form of commercial arrangement. The important point here at that we are getting more revenue and margin per local wholesale line.  

Before moving on to the cost side I want to spend a minute talking about access lines; in particular, how technology is changing the way we look at different metrics and how best to measure volume trends within the wireline business. Total access lines are down 5.1% on a year-over-year basis, with the residential decline at 6% and the business decline at 3.6%. However, if you look at total wireline revenues you see a much improved trend, indicating that our revenues have stabilized somewhat.  

This is best illustrated when looking at the residential retail market. On this chart you see our line losses over the past five quarters, with the net additional consumer broadband lines as an overlay. This improving trend in these revenue-generating units track better with the consumer revenues to which they relate.  

On the cost side of the equation our results reflect our commitment to operational excellence and demonstrate once again our ability to manage our business efficiently. The relatively small increases in wireline headcount were primarily results of some new hiring related to the fiber deployment initiative.  

From an operating expense standpoint, cash expenses excluding pension and OPEB have remained relatively flat over the past five quarters. We believe this is particularly notable given our focus on new growth initiatives like DSL, LD, Enterprise Advance, and more recently FiOS. The success of these new services have driven higher cost of sales; so it's imperative that we offset these costs with productivity improvements and other cost efficiencies.  

As you can imagine we track all types of metrics related to employee productivity. One example of an area of focus and one that is showing an improved trend is the amount of installation and repair hours per dispatch. In enterprise, for example, systems improvements designed to improve flow-through, much like we have achieved in wholesale, are well underway.  

Another big area of focus providing significant savings opportunity is automation and self-service. Whether it's B2B in the wholesale and enterprise markets or utilization of our voice portals and the Verizon.com website for transactions and bill payments for residential customers, there are countless initiatives underway, all designed to cut down on the cost of doing business. Lastly, we see further opportunities for savings in the areas of real estate and call center management.  

To conclude, I am very pleased with our solid start to the year. Our business fundamentals remain strong. Look for us to continue improving our competitive position across all our markets. Our business model is based on strong margin performance and sustained operating cash flow generation. We believe that the investments we are making in wireless, broadband, and the enterprise market will serve us well as we provide both the platform and the capacity for future growth.  

Finally, in the intensely competitive wireless market, Verizon Wireless continues to set the industry standard for excellence, innovation, and performance. That's all. Cathie, I'll turn it back to you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Okay. Before we go to questions and answers I'd like to ask Ivan to make a few comments for us. Ivan?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.: Okay, Cathie. Good morning, Cathie, and good morning, everyone. Just not to repeat a lot of things that Doreen covered in great detail, but just from my perspective, just a couple of thoughts. I'm very pleased, as is Doreen and the rest of our team, with the start we have to 2005. We see excellence momentum in our growth areas of broadband, wireless, and enterprise. We not only had strong results there, but in some places we actually picked up the pace.  

We had lots of self-improvement in business fundamentals relating to volume drivers and cost drivers, and very solid cost controls during the first quarter. I know most people will recognize that we had year-over-year significant increase in expenses related to growth, as well as purchased acquisitions of additional spectrum. In spite of those two things we were able to deliver strong and stable margins for the quarter. And by the way, for the first time in a long time, we were able to raise the dividend.  

So we feel very good about the use of cash and the ability to deliver on strong and stable margins for the quarter. So overall, Cathie, a good start to '05.  

Before we get to the questions, we know that there might be some interest in some comments on the MCI merger agreement. As you might expect on this call we would like to focus on our first-quarter earnings and answer questions related to our results. To the extent that any matters relating to the MCI transaction come up over the course of time, we will of course address that when it is appropriate. So with that, Cathie, let's go back to you and we will answer the questions.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Jackie, I believe we are ready for our first question.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) John Hodulik, UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Just a couple quick questions on margins and CapEx. Doreen, Verizon saw about a 230 basis point decline year-over-year in wireline margins. A lot of it had to do with the new growth initiatives. Could you -- is that 230 basis point decline a good yardstick with which to look at 2005?  

Secondly on the CapEx, CapEx is a little bit, about 400 million higher than we expected. Can you give us a little bit more color in terms of guidance on CapEx? I think at the fourth-quarter call you said that you expected an annual increase of 10%. It looks like a lot of the spending came in the wireless side. Any additional comments you could make on your outlook profile on the CapEx would be great too. Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'll start the capital side. On the capital I don't think we are going to -- no change really from what we said before. We're still expecting about a 10% increase. You'll see an increase both in wireline and in wireless. At this point we're going to continue not to split out the difference; but you will continue to see that over the year at about that rate.  

On the margin side I guess two things. One, there is less of an uptick if you look, if you take pension and OPEB out. So if you -- I think we have that on one of the charts. So the difference Q to Q, if you would, or even year-over-year is much different when you take pension and OPEB out.  

But if I just spend a second on margin, obviously we consider margins extremely important. We compensate people on margins. We feel that we've built sort of a cost-efficient business. We are very consistent with that. What we've been doing is we continue to have productivity improvements as best we can, and efficiency improvements.  

What we are doing is we are using some of the nongrowth areas that are sort of maybe turning around -- DSL might be an example, where you've got some margins that are turning around, which enable you to cover some of your other growth initiatives. So we have been doing that.  

We think if you look at our history, especially the telco, if you take pension and OPEB out, you have seen really a stabilization of their margin. And we will continue to really focus on doing the same thing. Next question?  

OPERATOR: Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Another strong quarter from wireless. I was wondering what can you do to help us understand the 3G metrics. When are we going to be able to get some sense of subscriber growth and units there? Related to that, the handsets are still quite expensive for the V CAST; what is the pipeline like in terms of getting the form factor, the price points to sort of mass-market type levels?  

And secondly, any sort of update on the thoughts on wireline spin. Is that still sort of on the back burner right now? Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think if I do the V CAST and the EV-DO from a business perspective, what we -- we are sort of early in the process. What I will tell you is that we are exceeding our targets both on the V CAST basis as well as EV-DO basis for the business customers. I think you've seen that we're on plan; and we've told you how many pops we will be up by the end of the year.  

I think at this point in time -- we only launched mid-February with V CAST -- we think it's too early to disclose. You can see our overall numbers, which as you would imagine at 1.6 were incredibly strong. So as we go out in time, I think you will expect to see it from us; but not at this point. I actually don't have an answer on the V CAST phones and where it's going to go at this point. Okay?  

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. And on the wireline spin?  

DOREEN TOBEN: What was the wireline question again?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Spin.  

DOREEN TOBEN: On, the spend on the capital?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: No, (multiple speakers).  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'm sorry; on the spin. No change since -- I think the fourth quarter we may have told you this, or perhaps it was one in one of my presentations. With the MCI acquisition pending, we have really backed off that at this point. We think there are a lot of regulatory issues. So we're going to wait and see where we go with MCI before we go back into the market with any kind of access line spin.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Ido Cohen of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

IDO COHEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: I was looking at the DSL broadband number; it looks pretty good. I wanted to see if you could give us at little more detail on the split between the FiOS and the DSL in there. And also an update on how DSL churn has been trending; and also the profitability of DSL generally. Is this an EBITDA positive product for us right now?  

DOREEN TOBEN: On the DSL versus FiOS, I'll tell you, as I said, the vast majority by far was DSL. At this point in time, once again, it is way too early to think about splitting out. So we are just going to deal with a broadband number for this point in time, maybe going forward for a while. But once again, vastly DSL.  

DSL churn has dramatically improved. We went to contracts some time earlier this year, maybe end of last year; that has made a big difference for us. We have also tightened up our credit policy, which has made a big difference as far as profitability. With the scale and scope that we're now getting, now that we're approaching 4 million homes connected, we see some scaling in the network cost. So the churn has come down substantially, the profitability is better.  

It is not yet EBITDA positive in total. I always do this in total, not just the recurring piece. That's how I look at it. A lot of that is obviously the cost of the upfront marketing and the fact that the modem -- we cover that. So not there, but we have a goal to get it there quickly and certainly making vast improvements. One of the reasons we're able to hold the telco margin where it is, is really the turnaround that we are seeing in the DSL margin.  

IDO COHEN: Just one other question. You currently offer naked DSL, I guess recently introduced that. Wanted to understand, are you also going to offer naked FiOS broadband?  

DOREEN TOBEN: If I start on the naked DSL, we think that is really a market-driven, as you would imagine. Lots of, say, the younger folks are looking for a wireless with a broadband connection. You've seen our initial offer; and as you can imagine the systems work has been substantial because we only really had the telephone number to define both the voice line and the DSL.  

So it has taken a while, more work in progress to spit that out within our system. So you will see more from us on that. As far as naked FiOS, yes, that is something we are offering I believe today, and we will continue to offer it.  

IDO COHEN: Thanks.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: David Barden of Banc of America Securities.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Just maybe two questions, two thematic (ph) questions. One is on the line porting. If you could give us some sense of how you saw line ports moving in the quarter, UNE-P, to Verizon and then from Verizon out to wireless and cable, as kind of maybe a benchmark to kind of get a sense of where things are going?  

Second, maybe on FiOS. Could you give us maybe a few more metrics around, for instance, how many people have been passed in the 250 communities where it's being offered today. And kind of where you stand in that million to 3 million homes passed metric that you gave us before.  

I guess in that vein, one of the key economic points with the FiOS deployment was expected to be the cost savings on plant. Could you give us some sense to this point? Are you kind of moving along the path that you would get to those cost savings in those communities where you are rolling it out? Is your experience satisfactory on the cost savings part? Thanks a lot.  

DOREEN TOBEN: If I start, let me see. What was your first one again?  

DAVID BARDEN: The line porting.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Oh, line porting. I would say there is probably no substantial trend. There is some wireless, but I would say the trend really hasn't moved up on the porting of wireless, not a huge number. I would actually say that, probably even on the cable side, not huge trend difference.  

We do see -- we continue to see UNE-P adds, ins if you would. Some of that, we've got these new commercial agreements. They are much more profitable to us. I think you've seen some of the numbers that -- because they're out there. So from a profit perspective the new UNE-Ps are in a much different spot than the embedded ones.  

We have also been able, because we have 40-plus under some kind commercial agreement, we will able to move up somewhat the embedded base pricing. So from that standpoint a much better position for us.  

At the metrics as far as homes passed, I think you've seen in the past what goals we have had. I am not going to give you an exact number, but I would say we're close to our goal as far as the homes that we have passed and what we've told you before. On the cost savings it's just way too early to really have the effect of that yet. And so that is pretty much where we are.  

DAVID BARDEN: Thanks.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Viktor Shvets of Deutsche Bank.  

VIKTOR SHVETS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Could I just have two quick questions? One on access line losses. There was quite a significant step-up in what should be seasonally one of the better quarters. It looks like about 1.5% Q on Q. Could you give us a little bit more color? If we look at those 600,000 lines or 500,000 residential lines, how much of that do you think was cable? How much was wireless cannibalization?  

The other question is on your commitments to programming. You have signed so far four commitments in the last couple of weeks. Two questions. Number one, how are you going to differentiate your product? At this stage it looks like they are fairly standard agreements that everybody else has.  

And a related issue, of course, at what stage should we start putting those costs -- at what stage will you start expensing some of the guarantees that you might have signed? Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Starting on the residential access lines, I guess I'd say a couple things. First on the retail perspective, we did see an improvement and so we were certainly pleased with the improvement. As you would expect we saw a bigger improvement in the primary lines than we did in the secondary lines.  

I would suggest a couple things. When you look at our geography you should think of us as probably having more competition than perhaps some of the other parts, certainly in the Northeast than some other parts of the country. In particular I think a difference that we see is the satellite penetration. The Northeast has a much lower penetration of satellite, much higher penetration of cable.  

What that means is obviously you have more opportunities for cable modems, for cable telephony than if they are satellite. So we see that as a difference. We see that within our own geography. In places where it's lower you actually do better both from your voice penetration and less loss in cable telephony.  

My sense is that, as I said, I don't think it has changed much as far as the mix. I think you will continue to see some pickup in VoIP and cable telephony. We have some significant competition, but not much of a change from where we are. I'm going to let Ivan answer the video piece if he would.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Thank you for your permission. On the programming issue, on the differentiation of the total experience with FiOS, we're already seeing a differentiated with FiOS data. Higher speeds, richer products, good take rates in the communities that we're offering it.  

I think to your point is when we take FiOS data and FiOS video and put it together as a total package, we will have -- yes, a lot of the linear programming that you read about will be part of the package; but we will have an opportunity to display it differently, to add additional programming capabilities, bundle it with the FiOS data, and give the customers sort of a multi TV experience in the home. You can do all of these things on multiple televisions.  

So I think we have lots of places that we can differentiate the total product, and we're starting with the base of the FiOS data.  

To your question about when do you start expensing programming costs, the issue is when we start offering video. Which at this point is somewhere out into the year, so I wouldn't worry about it in terms of when we get it. But I think it is important to establish the momentum that we have access at reasonable rates to all of the required video content that is necessary.  

VIKTOR SHVETS: Thank you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: May we have the next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Blake Bath of Lehman Brothers.  

BLAKE BATH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Can you talk about the growth in the workforce at the telco? I noticed it was up over 2%. Is that something that we should expect to continue rising? Obviously you're seeing improving wireline revenue trends. I assume that your expectation is that over time you would grow revenue at faster than the rate of growth of employees.  

Secondarily on that point, can you talk about the use of contractors? It looks like the workforce on wireline was up 3,000 people year on year. If one were to look at it on an FTE basis with contractors, how much does that 3K understate what is really going on in the overall cost of the FiOS project? Thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: If I start with the embedded force and the increase in telco, I think we have been telegraphing the increase was really due to FiOS. So if you look on a year-over-year basis what we are trying to do is bring the embedded base down, which we have been doing; but we have been growing the FiOS.  

The only other piece that we may have a slight increase is in the sales force for enterprise. We had been down a little bit. We've been beefing that up that as well. So that is the primary increase. I would say that the target for the end of the year is around 143,000. So we will continue to do what we said, bring the base down and put additional people in FiOS.  

As far as -- and by the way, you will remember that last year we had the offer that we had. So we had the 20,000 people that lost (ph) the payroll. So part of the year-over-year you are still seeing it took us longer than we anticipated bringing the folks back.  

On an FTE basis I don't actually have that right here in front of me. My sense is that there is not much of a difference in contracting in the numbers we've been seeing. Because most of the people that we have brought on have really been more term employees. So we actually have not had to use contractors, because instead we are using two and three term employees.  

BLAKE BATH: One quick follow-up. On the enterprise business, which I believe you sized at about $6 billion in annualized revenue, can you talk about margin and pricing trends that you are seeing in that market?  

DOREEN TOBEN: From a marketing perspective I would tell you it continues to be flat margins. We've been careful in our pricing with Enterprise Advance and not been very aggressive. We have been getting I'd say margins that are normal to our business. I think you know that from our perspective the enterprise margins are good. We feel very comfortable with them.  

There has been some certain pricing pressure, more so on the Enterprise Advance, especially when you are competing on an embedded customer, different from a new than an embedded. So if we saw anything it would be really in trying to get some of the new business when it's an existing contract.  

BLAKE BATH: Thank you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Can we have the last question, please?  

OPERATOR: Daniel Henriques of Goldman Sachs.  

DANIEL HENRIQUES, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I have two questions. The first one, you obviously had very strong net adds this quarter in wireless; and you mentioned that 96% of net adds were retail postpaid. But this quarter you made some changes to your prepaid and family plans; so it looks like at least this quarter yet you still haven't benefited a lot from that.  

So if you look forward, can you give us a sense in terms of the trajectory of family and prepaid adds this quarter? And into the second quarter, do you think this could be an extra leg of growth for you? And if you could update us in terms of your strategy for prepaid and family plans as well, because it changed a bit this quarter.  

Second question is about DSL. You had very good adds this quarter. Can you tell us how much of that is because of churn? You had an initiative to try to stimulate subscribers to switch to contract; and how much of that is because of gross adds? Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: If I start guess on the wireless question, from a prepaid perspective certainly it's a growing market. We do see some opportunities here. You probably -- we did launch our Inpulse prepaid product. We think it's attractive. We launched it so it would be profitable. We have been very careful with prepaid from a profitability and churn perspective. But having said that, we continue to be really focused on high-quality customers and will continue to do that from the wireless perspective.  

On the DSL question, what was your question again?  

DANIEL HENRIQUES: The question was basically how much of your growth improving this quarter is because of churn going down; how much is because of gross adds. If you could give us an idea of how much of your percentage of your DSL subscribers are under contract.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I would say it's both. The churn has gone down but the gross adds have definitely gone up. The sales have definitely gone up. So I think both metrics went in the right way. I would tell you of the new adds we are over 50% in contract. So it has been really good on the folks that we've added this quarter.  

DANIEL HENRIQUES: Thank you.  

CATHIE WEBSTER: Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. That concludes our conference call. My staff and I will be available to answer any questions that we were unable to get to this morning. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may now disconnect your lines, and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050511e14r000ma
  


 HD
 Q4  2004  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,193 words
   PD
27 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Verizon Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2004 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants have been place on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation.  

[OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

   TD
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Mr. Tom Bartlett of Verizon. Sir the floor is your.  

TOM BARTLETT, SVP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON: Good morning everyone. Welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2004 Earnings Conference Call. Thanks for joining us this morning. I'm Tom Bartlett. With me in New York this morning is Doreen Toben our Chief Financial Officer who will review our quarterly and full year results. At the end of Doreen's presentation, she and Ivan Seidenberg, our Chief Executive Officer will answer some questions.  

Before we get started let me make sure that you're aware that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication and the presentation slides that we'll be reviewing have been available on our investor relations website since 7.30 this morning. The website address is  www.verizon.com/investor . If you'd like to listen to a replay of this conference call at a later date you can do so from our website where we are currently webcasting this call. A replay of this call will also be available by phone for 48 hours beginning at noon today. The dial in number is 877-519-4471 and the conference I.D. number is 5446782.  

I'd also like to draw your attention to our "Safe Harbor" statement displayed on slide two of our presentation charts. This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are "forward-looking" and subject to risk and uncertainties. For those statements we claim protection of the "Safe Harbor" for "forward-looking statements" contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is also contained in our SEC fillings which can also be accessed from our website. In addition, this presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by these rules we have provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly and comparable GAAP measures in an Excel worksheet file which has been posted to our website on the same web page as our presentation slides. With that Doreen.  

DOREEN A. TOBEN, EVP AND CEO, VERIZON: Thanks Tom and good morning everyone. Let me start by saying that as we close out 2004 and move into 2005 our business fundamentals are stronger now than they have been in years. Our fourth quarter completes the year in which we produced our strongest overall revenue growth in three years.  

We generated incremental revenues of $5.2 billion as Verizon Wireless which continues its outstanding performance demonstrating once again that it is far and away the industry leader. Our wireline business also turned in a very solid performance with steadily improving revenues and stable operating margins. Importantly, we continue to see strong cash generation throughout the entire business. So let's start with the financial highlights.  

Revenue growth of 6.2% for the quarter and 5.7% for the full year. Consolidated revenues grew $3.8 billion in 2004 and totaled more than $71 billion. Consolidated revenues were also up for the third consecutive quarter. Growth was primarily driven by Verizon Wireless which now represents about 40% of our quarterly revenue stream.  

We had another quarter of solid margins demonstrating our ability to drive growth in new areas while increasing productivity and reducing costs.  

Cash from operations remains strong at $6.3 billion in the quarter. We ended the year with $39.3 billion of total debt, a reduction of more than $6.0 billion or 13.5% in 2004. We also ended the year with $2.3 billion of cash on hand.  

Adjusted EPS was sixty-four cents for the fourth quarter bringing us to $2.51 for the full year 2004. This is a significant increase over fourth quarter 2003. These solid financial results were made possible by continued excellent operational performance inductive of our strong business fundamentals.  

Verizon Wireless capped off an outstanding year with a very strong fourth quarter.  

Net ads were $1.7 million for the quarter and $6.3 million for the year. Service (inaudible) of 5032 grew 3.0% over fourth quarter of last year. More than 16.6 million customers use our data services. A 62% increase over last year and our commitment to network quality and customer satisfaction helps us reduce total churn to a new record low of 1.43% in the fourth quarter.  

In the wireline business customers continue to respond to the excellent value proposition of our bundled services as package penetration grew to 56%. We added another 306 DSL subscribers in the quarter for a total of $1.24 million for the year. An average consumer revenue per customer in wireline grew to just short of $50.00 per month, a 4.0% increase.  

More details on each of these areas in a few minutes, but first let me take you through our earnings reconciliation for the fourth quarter.  

Reported earnings were $1.08 per share reflecting several one-time gains that we have excluded from adjusted earnings. During the quarter we recorded net after-tax gains of just over $1.0 billion or thirty-six cents per share on the sale of our Canadian directories and our interest in Telis. The sale of our Canadian directories also resulted in a taxable capital gain which allowed us to utilize some previously unrecognized capital losses. The resulting tax benefit was $234 million or eight cents per share. Excluding these effects, adjusted EPS was sixty-four cents for the quarter.  

Again, we are obviously very pleased with another quarter of strong quality earnings. I want to bring one additional item to you attention regarding a recent accounting ruling dealing with the inclusion of contingently convertible debt and diluted earnings per share calculations. There is a footnote on our income statements detailing this information. Essentially here is the change.  

Our zero coupon debt which is convertible into Verizon common stock is now included in both current and prior periods diluted EPS calculations and will be going forward. The retroactive effect on 2003 is worth about two cents per share meaning that the $2.62 adjusted EPS from that year is now $2.60 for comparability. In 2004 the effect of this change diluted EPS by about one cent, so without this change EPS would have been $2.52.  

Now let's move on to a real story of 2004 which is the growth and change of our revenue base around wireless, broadband, long distance and the enterprise markets. As you can see on the chart 55% of our revenues now come from these initiatives up from 49% a year ago.  

Over the course of last year these growth areas generated incremental revenues of $6.2 billion representing growth of almost 20%. Looking at annual revenue trends you can see that we have grown revenues by nearly $5.0 billion in 2002 highlighted by 5.7% growth this year. You can also see the increasing contribution of our high-growth wireless segments of these results and the fact that this growth has greatly exceeded the decline in the wireline business.  

Looking at revenues by segment, Verizon Wireless continues to be our primary revenue growth driver with a 22.7% increase in total revenue. Although wireline revenues were down 2.4% from last year, they were up $21 million from last quarter.  

Together international and information services increased revenues by 1.7% over last year. International had a particularly good fourth quarter with revenue growth of 14% and 3.3% for the full year.  

Information services revenue were down $43 million in the quarter and $10 million sequentially. This business continues to be a significant source of cash generating CFFO of about $1.1 billion during 2004. During 2004 we did an excellent job of controlling cash expenses. The reduction in wireline expenses were driven by full year wage savings from our force downsizing initiatives last year offset in part by higher cost of sales due to the growth in DSL and long distance markets.  

In wireless our scale distribution and productivity program resulted once again in lower growth and cash expenses than revenues. Our adjusted operating income margins excluding (inaudible) remain strong. On a consolidated basis full year margins grew 90 basis points from 20% driven by nearly a 300 basis point increase in wireless to 21.1% and stability in wireline at 17.1%.  

Verizon Wireless generated another very strong quarter relative to both EBITDA and operating income. However, I want to draw your attention to one item in particular. Fourth quarter margins include the effects of a sizable accrual of compensation expense related to the Verizon Wireless long-term employee incentive plan. This is a plan that virtually all Verizon Wireless employees participate in. The increase in the amount recognized as compensation expense in the fourth quarter reflects both the extraordinary operating performance of the business as well as its significant appreciation in value in 2004.  

Let me give you some numbers so you can put this in proper context. Sequentially we recognize $125 million more expense for this issue in the fourth quarter than we did in the third quarter. For the full year these amounts were $544 million in 2004 and $97 million in 2003. Had it not been for this accrual the operating income margin would have exceeded 20% and been more in line with previous trends. Similarly EBITDA would have been well over 40% and in line with past performance. Frankly, if you consider the difference in the amount recognized and expense in the full year of 2004 versus 2003, it makes the increase in EBITDA margins from 39.2 to 42.3 in 2004 all that more impressive.  

On the wireline side, margin performance was again strong. Operating income excluding (inaudible) increased $92 million sequentially and $141 million year-over-year driven by productivity improvements and cost control.  

Now let me review some segment level detail starting with Verizon Wireless. Net ads were strong at $1.7 million. These ads coupled with a 3.0% growth in service RPU lead to strong revenue growth margins and cash flows. EBITDA margins were 39.5% for the quarter and 42.3% for the year and CFFO was $2.4 billion. Very strong once again.  

Service revenues for the quarter grew at a terrific rate of over 20%, while total revenues grew just under 23%. Data continues to represent a significant portion of this growth. In the past year we have seen a significant number of America's choice subscribers from about half of our base to nearly two-thirds. Additionally, about one-fourth of these subscribers are on monthly price plans of $55.00 and above.  

As you know we are very focused on increasing not only the size but also the quality of our customer base. At the point of sale, we accomplish this by emphasizing our post-paid price plans and service contracts. You can see the results on this chart. Most significantly retail post-paid customers accounted for about 97% of our net ads for 2004. This focus on quality is also evident in our churn levels.  

Wireless data has really come into its own. More than 83% of our customers now have data enabled devices up from about 50% just a year ago. Data now represents an annualized revenue stream of about $1.4 billion based on fourth quarter numbers. Almost 40% of our customers are active data users exchanging billions of text and pictures messages, downloading applications and accessing e-mail on the web. We believe our success will be even more robust as we continue to increase our three-G coverage nationally.  

As you know, we recently expanded coverage to 22 more markets. So far we are very pleased with the acceptance of our broadband access products with business customers who use it primarily for remote mobile access from their laptop.  

As you know, next week we will launch our consumer broadband offering which we are calling, VCast. We believe that VCast will really begin to change the game for consumers. For $15.00 a month in addition to their regular calling plan, VCast customers will receive unlimited access to a wide array of video programming and 3-D gaming from leading content providers including News Corp, NBC, 20th Century Fox, and MTV networks. At launch customers will be able to access VCast on a number of new cutting edge phones. We're obviously very bullish about the wireless data opportunity. With our significant "first-to-market" advantage it continues to represent a significant growth area for us with terrific margins.  

We are growing not only fast, but also profitably. Let me spend a minute or so on what is driving this profitable growth. We have always focused on distribution as a way to differentiate our service and manage our costs. Almost two out of every three new customers comes through the Verizon Wireless direct channels. Principally our company owns store in Kiev. Scale is also a significant factor in our profitability. We have effectively controlled both the cash and acquisition costs per customer associated with our rapid growth. Keep in mind the cash costs per customer this quarter are affected by the compensation costs that I covered earlier.  

We measure our network quality using a number of metrics some of which are on this chart. The bottom line is that we have more than doubled our network usage while improving the customer experience and we have lowered our costs to deliver the service. We are intensely focused about maintaining our position as America's most reliable network.  

We drive our footprint everyday to test our performance versus our competitors, a process we call base lining. During 2004, we drove over one million miles and we will test even more this year and these tests we win about 95% of the time consistently across our footprints.  

Our internal testing has been validated by independent third party tests and surveys such as Consumer Reports where out network quality is ranked the best across the country. Our network has served as a foundation for our success and market leadership positions.  

Let me demonstrate this leadership story by showing you some trends on a few key metrics for the past three years. The message of this chart is clear. We've improved in every important category. In getting to this point we've done things that few wireless companies have been able to do. We've ramped up our growth by more than doubling our net ad in two years time. We've raised (inaudible) by almost $2.00 by attracting customers to the Verizon Wireless value proposition.  

We've significantly improved churn and not or, we've done it profitably. We've generated EBITDA margins that have improved by over 300 basis points. We're very proud of our record of profitable growth and we are just as excited about the opportunities ahead of us.  

Let's now cover our wireline business where we had another strong quarter. Here are a few highlights.  

Revenues were up $21 million sequentially on a base of over $9.6 billion. Underlying our growth were data revenues which rose by 9.2%. Data transport revenues grew $191 million or almost 12%. Our margin performance was excellent as continue to hold the line on costs while generating new revenue. This has allowed us to sustain our operating margins and generate very strong cash flows while we fund our growth initiatives.  

Let's take a quick look at revenues by lines of business starting with our consumer segment. Revenues of $3.9 billion were about flat sequentially and down 2.8% or $112 million from fourth quarter a year ago.  

Revenues from long distance and DSL along with the popularity of our Verizon Freedom packages are helping to offset the challenges posed by technology substitution and competition. Four quarter averaged monthly revenue per customer was just shy of $50.00 up about 4.0% from year ago levels.  

In business revenues of $3.0 billion grew $75 million sequentially and are up 2.0% year-over-year. Higher data revenues including both transport and CPE helps drive this improvement.  

Wholesale revenues declined $67 million sequentially but grew by $11 million compared with fourth quarter last year. Local wholesale revenues have contributed to this growth. As for special access we are encouraged by the increasing demand for higher bandwidth circuits like DS1s and DS3s.  

We are also beginning to see increase demand for OC3s and 12s as enterprises migrate to even higher bandwidth capacity.  

Finally fourth quarter revenues in the all other category were $565 million up $29 million. For the year revenues in this category declined 24.6%. As I discussed last quarter this reflects the absence of revenues from various non-core, non-strategic initiatives that we have either discontinued or divested over the past year.  

Now let's take a closer look at the volume drivers in each of these markets. As I think we agree the best way to analyze our consumer business is to understand what is driving monthly revenue for customer and the corresponding revenue trends.  

With respect to total residential lines which include both retail and wholesale, we continue to see line erosions for all the reasons we have cited for some time, principally wireless and broadband substitution. Nothing new here except that the economics of this erosion have actually improved for us due to the significant reduction in the number of retail lines for us to wholesale or UNEP.  

On a sequential basis we lost 466,000 retail residential lines during the fourth quarter. However, this does show an improving trend of retail line losses due to both the UNE-P declines and our Win Back programs. These 2 factors have really helped reduce the primary line losses over the last couple of quarters.  

And, as we've seen for several quarters now, our non-primary line loss is more than offset with new DSL additions. Another interesting observation is that in our more historically competitive markets, we are seeing significantly less retail line erosion. That said, we have been successful to date in mitigating the effects of line losses with a 4% increase in monthly revenue per customer due in large part to the success of our bundles and the strong performance of our growth products.  

In long distance, we continue to see growth in residential market share as it now stands at over 50%. Total long distance revenues represent more than 4 billion in annualized revenue. Finally, we are convinced that the most critical component to retaining customers is the broadband connection.  

Right on plan, we added 306,000 DSL lines in the quarter and 1.2 million for the full year. We are also succeeding in reducing churn through our service improvements, as well as the introduction of annual contracts. DSL revenues in the quarter were about 370 million, an increase of more than 56% versus the same quarter a year ago. We believe that last week's announcement of our partnership with Yahoo! will further strengthen our DSL offerings as we move into 2005.  

Next is business, where revenues include small, medium and enterprise customers. Business lines showed steady improvement over the course of the year. Our retail sequential quarterly line loss was our smallest of the year.  

In the highly competitive small and medium size business market, we have improved our revenue performance, but there is still more to do in this area. Our Verizon Freedom for Business products have been well received as we more than doubled our number of lines. In the large business market, we saw a big turnaround in enterprise revenue growth for 2004. For the year, we managed to hold revenues steady to slightly up at around 6 billion, while other major players in this market experienced double-digit declines.  

Even more significant is the sequential improvement from a 2% loss in the first quarter of the year to a 4.9% growth rate in the fourth quarter. We've accomplished this by selectively increasing staff to support major accounts and targeting high-end services such as optical networking. As a result, we've retained a greater share of market for our core transport products by focusing on key accounts and improving our service and provisioning times. I will talk more specifically about enterprise advance in a few minutes. M  

Moving to our wholesale business, on the carrier side of wholesale, the focus is obviously on data services. The main driver here is higher data transport revenue. We are encouraged by the pickup we're seeing in demand for our transport services. As an example, OC volumes, measured in terms of voice grade equivalents, have grown over 40%. I have put our UNE-P trends on this chart because they represent local wholesale. The chart is indicative of the favorable changes underway with regard to this issue.  

To sum up our revenue discussion, this chart demonstrates that despite the loss of traditional access lines, 2004 was a year in which we saw revenue stability as we successfully offset the effects of technology substitution and competition with new sources of revenue and strong data growth. Today when we talk about consumer broadband, we mean DSL. In the future, that definition will expand to include FiOS. We're very excited about the rollout of this transformational network platform, so let me give you a quick snapshot of where we stand.  

We are passing homes at the rate of about 35 to 40,000 per week and expect to increase that rate throughout the year. Specifically in Keller, Texas, our first market, we are now at over 20% FiOS penetration and 26% total broadband penetration after just 4.5 months in the market. Customers are finding the speed and reliability of our FiOS offerings very attractive. FiOS is now being offered to more than 100,000 customers across the country. We are on plan to launch commercial video service in select markets in the second half of this year. We have secured most of the necessary content and we have developed an intuitive, easy to use interface for customers. We are very excited about the prospects of offering a true competitive alternative in the video market. When coupled with the 15 megabits of high-speed capacity, it's a value proposition that can't be beat.  

Moving on to Enterprise Advance, we exceeded our 250 million revenue objective for the year. We introduced a number of new products and services during the course of the year and will continue to do so going forward. We are actively partnering with Verizon Wireless on major accounts and we are expanding our reach into new markets, which keeps more traffic on net. While doing all this, we are very focused on continuously improving our business processes, driving productivity and helping margins.  

On the core side of the equation, our results reflect our commitment to operational excellence and demonstrate once again our ability to manage our business efficiently. For the most part, the wireline workforce remains fairly stable for 2004 as we effectively captured the benefits from our cost reduction and productivity initiatives. Adjusting for net pension OPEB, we reduced cash expenses by 114 million sequentially and 346 million compared with the year-ago quarter.  

So to sum up the wireline segment, we're showing that in spite of challenges to our existing business, we can successfully enter new growth markets and maintain overall margin stability. And with almost 12 billion in cash flow from operations, our wireline operations continue to be a strong healthy business that is generating the cash we need to grow.  

Moving to international, our strategy is to manage and, where appropriate, rationalize this portfolio of properties to focus on our core strategic investments. Over the past year we've sold our investments in Canada, as well as some other smaller properties. Let me spend a minute providing an access line update. From a strategic point of view, we are looking to improve our mix of assets and reduce our exposure to lower growth assets and those subject to traditional forms of regulation. As we have said, one way to accomplish this is to shed some existing access lines. We continued detailed property assessment and analysis and, as the year unfolds and industry events provide more clarity, we will explore our options.  

Shifting to capital, we continue to allocate more capital to fund growth areas and new technologies such as Enterprise Advance, EV-DO and FG-GP (ph), as well as to support the organic growth of our business. We spent just over 13 billion, which was just above the top end of our guidance. This was driven by slightly higher spending at Verizon Wireless to support their strong customer growth and slightly higher spending in our wireline business. More than 30% of our wireline spending was in growth areas. This included reallocation of about $900 million. As we look to 2005, we expect our overall capital spending to increase by about 10%.  

Before I wrap up, I want to cover 1 of my key areas of focus, our cash flow and balance sheet. Once again, we effectively demonstrated our ability to generate strong cash flows, reduce debt and invest for the future, all at the same time. Cash flow from operations totaled almost 22 billion for the year and we reduced total debt by more than 6 billion to 39.3 billion. As you know, we have been on a path for the past 3 years of strengthening our balance sheet by using our free cash flow to reduce debt. We are very pleased with the progress of our improvement in the balance sheet. Our business will continue to generate significant amounts of operating cash flow. So in spite of increased capital spending, we still have a fair amount of financial flexibility.  

To conclude, I am very pleased with the operational performance of Verizon. As I said, our business fundamentals are the strongest they've been in years. I am confident that we will continue to improve our competitive position across all of our markets. Our business model is based on consistent margin performance and sustained operating cash flow generation going forward. We also believe that we are well positioned to take advantage of an improving industry sector and regulatory environment. We believe that the investments we are making in wireless, broadband and the enterprise markets will bode well for us as we provide both the platforms and the capacity for future growth.  

That's all I have, operator. Back to you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mr. Bartlett, are we ready to begin the question and answer session?  

TOM BARTLETT: Hey, Jackie, before we go to Q&A, I know, Ivan, you have a couple of comments you'd like to make.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, VERIZON: I do, Tom. Thank you, Tom, and thank you, Doreen. Good morning, everyone.  

Let me start by saying I'm very pleased with our progress and the momentum we've built heading into 2005. As Doreen just described, overall our focus on growth, while adapting to changes in technology, keeping our eye on margins and improving our balance sheet, is the right strategy for our company and is really paying off. We have developed an incredibly disciplined approach to managing our business. Now, of course, there is always more we can do and always areas for improvement and that's what 2005 is all about.  

Now, just for information, as many of you heard earlier, Tom is moving along -- Tom Bartlett that is, is moving along to become corporate treasurer, a wonderful move for Tom and for our business. Bill Heitmann, our current treasurer, will now assume responsibilities for our pension assets and credit company, also a great move for Bill and for our company. And finally, Kathy Webster will assume responsibility for investor relations. Kathy, as you will soon learn, has a wealth of experience in our business, having served in many senior financial roles in finance and operations. As all of you know, we view the IR job as a critical mainstream financial position in our business and I am very excited that Kathy is taking on this new responsibility.  

Now, 1 final comment before we get to the Q&A part of our call. I would like to brief you on a change in our policy concerning forward-looking guidance. Doreen just went through a very comprehensive, transparent discussion of results for our company. From this, I am sure you have the necessary information to create a reasonably accurate model of our company's performance. Our policy in discussing future guidance will, therefore, focus on broad trends, qualitative discussion and much less on point targets and numerical guidance. This is increasingly becoming more common across many industries as the regulatory environment is changing, competition certainly is intensifying, and frankly, is something I have been thinking about for quite awhile.  

Now, of course, we do agree we have a responsibility to provide additional commentary or information to assist in making sure that all of you are in full understanding of our underlying business fundamentals. So I know if you have questions, you will surely ask them and we will try to help. So, from time to time, we may feel that we need to give you some supplemental information, such as the pension and OPEP guidance we gave a few weeks ago or the overall capital guidance that Doreen just provided this morning.  

I think, Tom, that covers my comments, so I'll turn it back to you and we're ready for questions.  

TOM BARTLETT: Great, Ivan, thanks. Jackie, we're ready for some questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you.  

[OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS]  

Your first question is coming from John Hodulik of UBS. Please go ahead.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning and, Tom, congratulations to you on the new position. I guess I'll start with sort of the obvious question. Ivan, the press is reporting today that SBC and AT&T are potentially looking at a combination. I know you typically don't like commenting on these things, but clearly the rationale would be to improve SBC's ability to compete out of region. I think that specifically means the Northeast corridor and just enterprise businesses in general. How would you view that type of transaction, how would that change your outlook and the way you approach the enterprise business and potentially the consumer market?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I think on this point nothing's really changed. Let's maybe dissect this and let's look at it through our eyes here. If you look at the enterprise space over the past couple of years, once we got all the long distance approvals and we started building our product platforms and our service orientation, our view has been to build organically, up from the small regional customers to the broader business customers and, where we can, serving the large customers as the second or third supplier into the market to do that. We feel, as Doreen reported, we've made steady progress over the last 5, 6, 7 quarters in that result. It's profitable for us and we think we're doing well.  

I don't look at the enterprise issue as an in-region outer-region market. Today, where necessary, we partner with others or we in effect have set up operations in selected places where our customers ask us to go. I think, getting to your question, I don't see any obvious need in our strategy as we have outlined it, so we feel very comfortable that we're doing very well.  

Now, what we told you all in the last 2 or 3 months is that with the changes in the regulator policy and the TRO and the carriers all shifting their focus to, I think work harder on their own cores and get out of things like UNEs and stuff like that, we were convinced over a course of time there would be a complete shift in the way that space would look, what those companies might look like, what valuations might look like. So, yes. So, the issue for us is we just keep an eye on it. But nothing I've heard this morning will change basically the importance that we place on the enterprise market and the strategy that we selected to pursue at this point.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Victor Shvets of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.  

VICTOR SHVETS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, good morning, everybody. I've just got a couple of questions, 1 relating to deferred tax liabilities. There's about $22 billion on your balance sheet, could you just give some guidance regarding degree of unwinding those deferred tax liabilities in 2005, 2006? We already have some numbers from SBC and BellSouth in that respect. And the other question on wireless EBITDA margin, that sort of increase in operational expenses, do you expect kind of similar kind of gains going through 2005 or can you recapture some of that EBITDA margin?  

DOREEN A. TOBEN: Hi, Victor, it's Doreen. If I start with the deferred tax question, I think we've given some guidance on this already as far as the impact on '05 versus '04, of which it's close to a billion 8. However, if you look at the different piece parts of maybe the 22 billion or so that's in the deferred tax number, we have a huge piece, like 10 billion, that's in the wireless assets that really doesn't turn around quickly. We have another several billion that's in the leasing piece that doesn't turn around quickly. So the piece that's really -- the delta is really only the depreciation piece. And, as I said, it's about 1.5 '04 to '05 and it's -- we've got lots of moving pieces as far as cash flow is concerned. And so that's how I would answer that one.  

And moving to the wireless question as far as EBITDA. I guess what I would tell you on wireless EBITDA is we spent over 38% EBITDA for probably the last 12 quarters and probably before that. So, if you look at our history, we have had solid margins over 38%, many, many, many quarters 40 or above, and I would use that as a guidance, perhaps, as what you think we might do going forward.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from David Barden of Banc of America. Please go ahead.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. Just a quick on the wireless segment. We've seen the first quarter performance from the new Cingular combined entity. They obviously did well on churn retained, a lot more subscribers. You guys were obviously very successful as well at the higher end of the market. I guess I would ask in light of kind of how you see Cingular strategy unfolding, how is your strategy evolving into '05 with respect to targeting high-end and then also penetrating the Family Plan market, the prepaid subscribers, et cetera. And then maybe second, just quickly on the Capex guidance expanding into '05, could you kind of just reiterate a little bit what specifically you'll attempt to get done on the FiOS project, how much of the Capex is going to that, how many homes passed, et cetera? Has there been any incremental change to those plans? Thanks a lot.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Ivan here. On the first question, here's what I would say. All of the consolidation that occurs in the wireless space is something we have suggested all along as probably necessary and probably a good thing. When companies combine, they do what they need to do. And so we probably will watch all of the people who are involved in their consolidation, execute on strategies they think make sense to them.  

The point I would make about us is we've been there already; we're a couple of years out beyond that. So I think the issue for us and you should look at it, we are -- we have built superior distribution, we have a great network, we have a good culture in our business, we are evolving our pricing plans, we're now into broadband. We have consistently focused on a balanced scorecard for the entire wireless business. So we're no longer in a starter phase or in an integration phase, we're in a phase where we look at all the metrics across the board. So I think what you'd expect from us is to continue to focus on expanding the market and driving solid financials across the broad balanced score sheet that you looked at. And Doreen just commented on that and if you look at our results over the course of the last 6 or 7 quarters, we've continued to build on that going forward. And that's our goal and that's how we compensate our people. I don't know what the future holds, but we certainly have built the capacity to deliver really good results in 2004.  

Now, on the other question, the Fios. I think we already perhaps gave you some information on that. Our view there is the project's moving along. I think Doreen mentioned that we're at about 35,000-40,000 home paths (ph) per week. Again, we're ramping up. This is where we are at this point and we're pretty satisfied that the project has gotten off on the footing that we would like it to get off on.  

DAVID BARDEN: Just as a quick follow-up, just in terms of the incremental CapEx, how much specifically of the CapEx is targeted for Fios in '05?  

DOREEN A. TOBEN: I think what we told you is we gave our capital guidance and I think a lot of it is really success based. There's lots of puts and takes on how rapidly we can ramp. We have issues sometimes like weather. If you look at California, we've had to really pull back in California because of all the flooding and trying to get the people back in service. So, I would suggest it will be really highly dependent on success based going forward.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Blake Bath of Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead.  

BLAKE BATH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. I guess just a couple of questions, maybe following up on John's earlier question, Ivan, about M&A of long distance companies. Is there any scenario you can imagine where you'd be interested in buying companies whose revenues are shrinking at double-digit rates and margins are declining? I guess that's the first question.  

Second, on the access line spin-off, I believe back in October you alluded to roughly 10-15 million access lines being divested. Is that still in the plans, something of that kind of magnitude? And I guess the final question is on EVDO, which down here in DC, I guess we've had over a year of experience with. Can you just talk about data usage per user down here or the penetration levels in some of these markets that have begun to mature a bit more, relative to what you've seen in your more traditional 1 axis (ph) markets? Thanks a lot.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, Blake. Thank you. Real quick. On the M&A question - I take it by the way you phrased it, you have an opinion about this. But it's okay. But here's what I would say. Look, on M&A activity, it is my policy, our policy is that we don't necessarily talk about things we're going to buy and not going to buy. Here's what I would suggest. This - because it's so prevalent in the newspapers today, the enterprise space is something of interest to us.  

We have worked very hard in the last 4 years to get our balance sheet down, get our debt down, focus on our growth strategies, buy spectrum, do Fios, improve our DSL, improve our enterprise. I think you should understand that any M&A we do, whatever it is - and we have done lots of things. We sold companies, we bought things in the last year. We're focused on the total picture as it relates to return to shareholders and to make sure that anything we do meets the tests of adding value to the company and so on and so forth.  

So, for all of you out there, you know for a fact that we look at everything, every day. There's nothing that we - that comes around the corner that we don't keep an eye on. And I don't view anything I read this morning as anything out of the ordinary. I mean, I guess to people - I guess Ed (ph) has to answer those questions. Our view is we just posted good results. You should understand that there's nothing that we have to report. But we have an interest in keeping our eye on everything that's going on and we will do it with the standards that we have set in the last couple of years.  

I think on the issue of axis lines, Doreen also answered this. If I had to offer maybe a comment, the issue of potential axis lines restructuring on spend is something that we still think about. It's an area that we think might make some sense. But in the last couple of months, lots of things have changed in the market. There are - we don't know what will happen with the lines of some of the companies that are merging. There are some other issues on the market. There's some changes that have occurred with even some of the other axis line companies.  

So, we want to take a more careful look to make sure, before we jump in the pool here, we now exactly what's going to happen. So, yes, it's something we're focused on, but it's something that we need to probably put a little more time dimension on. As to EVDO, here's what I would answer to that. I don't think we're going to get in the business of individual market results. I mean, in our fourth quarter, we talked about the explosion of data customers and I think, if you call into our staff, there's lots of stuff about the actual metrics concerning our performance you should feel good about.  

We also announced, at the consumer electronics show, a whole new suite of services that will go over EVDO VCAST. We're really excited by that. We think that's going to expand the market. So, I think the end of the first quarter will be here pretty quickly and you'll begin to see how all these things start to play themselves out. We are very excited about EVDO because it's not only a great competitive tool. It will expand the market and we have a chance of capturing a great share of this service all along. And that's been the strategy that we have talked to you guys about. Hopefully, that helps.  

BLAKE BATH: Yes, thank you.  

TOM BARTLETT: We'll take 2 more questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is from Richard Talbot of RBC. Please go ahead. Mr. Talbot, your line is live. Please proceed with your question.  

RICHARD TALBOT, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks very much. Two questions. The first is on the dividend. You've got payout ratios in terms of EPS and free cash flow in the mid-50% level. Dividend hasn't changed in awhile. I'm just wondering if you can give us your thoughts on how you look at the cash flows and visibility of the business with respect to the dividend going forward.  

And then secondly, you've had some good progress on the wireline costs. Wondering whether there's scope to step that up a notch and whether you see some room for further work force reductions or whether it's going to be more of an organic grinded out basis.  

DOREEN A. TOBEN: Hi, Richard. It's Doreen. I think, on the dividend question, what I would tell you is I think, from our balance sheet perspective now, we think we have some great flexibility. Perhaps we still have some room to improve it a little bit more. But I think that we can devote a lot more of our free cash flow to strategic initiatives going forward.  

If I - on the wireline costs, there is always room in my mind to increase both productivity. It's been a constant theme of ours. So, do I think there's more efficiencies in productivity? Absolutely, going forward. And as you've seen over the past several quarters, the telco has been able to, through operational efficiencies and productivity really offset their revenue declines and keep their margins flat. And they will continue to work on that going forward.  

RICHARD TALBOT: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Your final question is coming from Ido Cohen of Credit Suisse First Boston. Please go ahead.  

IDO COHEN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks. I wanted to ask, on DSL, I noticed that the trend from third quarter to fourth quarter has been pretty flat. Maybe talk a little bit - some of your peers have lowered price going into the fourth quarter - what your outlook is for DSL growth and pricing going into '05.  

DOREEN A. TOBEN: I think on DSL, first of all, we're very pleased with our results. We are exactly on plan. Actually, we had given some guidance even awhile back and so we are real happy with where we ended up. We have seen steady improvement. We have continued to see churn improvement, which we've been very pleased with in the fourth quarter and would expect that we will continue to work very hard on improving churn and some of those metrics.  

We will continue to be very focused on DSL. It is a high priority for us. You've seen us announce something with Yahoo!, which will now let customers have a choice, so they'll be able to pick their portal, if you will. We think that that will be something customers really like, so we will work - continue to be really focused on DSL going forward.  

TOM BARTLETT: Great, Jackie (ph). Thank you very much, everybody, for all of your attention. That concludes our call. We'll be around all day. So, if any follow-up questions, please give us a call. Thanks again.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. Please disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050210e11r000pl
  


 HD
 Q3  2004  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
25,306 words
   PD
28 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to your third quarter analyst meeting. Your conference call will begin momentarily.  

   TD
TOM BARTLETT, INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON: We can get going here. That would be great. I think everybody is in from -- from the outside. Good morning, everyone. My name is Tom Bartlett. I manage Investor Relations here at Verizon. Welcome to our third quarter analyst breakfast meeting. Let me start by saying that we clearly understand just how valuable your time is and particularly during this time of the quarter we know it's very busy. We really do appreciate your attention and thank you very much for being with us here today. Just really one kind of housekeeping note. As you can see from the agenda, it's in the packages that you had coming in, there aren't any intermissions, if you will, in our agenda today. So if there is a need, you guys are on your own. Regarding our earnings material, I want to make sure that you're aware that our earnings release, financial statements, the Investor Court of Publication, and the presentation slides that we will be reviewing have been available on our Web site since 6:30 this morning. And as you know, our Web site address is  www.Verizon.com/investor. If you'd like to listen to a replay of this conference call at a later date, you can do so from our Web site where we are currently Webcasting this call. A replay of this call will also be available by phone for 48 hours beginning at 1 p.m. today. The dial-in for domestic replay is replay is 877-519-4471, and the confirmation number is 5199106. And the dial-in for the international replay is 973-341-3080 and the confirmation number again is 5199106.  

I'd also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement, discussions of factors -- if you can read that quickly. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is also contained in our SEC filings which can also be accessed from our Web site and this presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by these rules, we have provided reconciliations of these nonGAAP measures to the most direct comparable GAAP measure and Excel worksheet file which has been posted to our Web site on the same Web page as our presentation slides. Before we do get started I want to go over one financial reporting change that we implemented this quarter. As you all know, on September 8, we announced an agreement with Bain capital to sell them our Canadian directory operations. Per FASB 144. We now report the results as a discontinued operation. This accounting and reporting treatment is similar to that when we announced the sale of Group O used to sell in the second quarter of 2003. The change -- this change that we reported has no bottom line effect on net income or EPS for the quarter or any prior period but does affect a number of income statement line items. We've restated prior periods for this change, so income statement comparisons to periods previously reported will likely be affected by this change. All necessary prior period restatements have been made to historical financial statements Excel file now available on our Web sites. Having that behind us, at this time, I would like to introduce Ivan Seidenberg who will provide us with some initial thoughts and an overview of today's agenda. Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHAIRMAN, CEO, VERIZON: Okay, Tom thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I do appreciate you taking the time to be with us this morning, to review our third quarter performance and to discuss the business in general. As you know, we released earnings this morning. I would characterize that -- those results as very solid performance and I'm personally very pleased with the progress that the Company is making in all of the areas that are important to our future progression. As you know, we released results in the second quarter which were substantially the same as the ones we just released in fact you might even think that today's results are stronger than the second quarter. Our second quarter results created a little bit of a stir, and excitement in the industry, as people began to see Verizon differentiating itself over the course of the last three or four quarters. And hopefully investors will see the continuation of that strategy and those results today. Our agenda today is pretty straight forward. You will hear from four of us, including Tom, will be five. Doreen will start off and you will understand from her presentation how we feel about the quality of our earnings, how we have leveraged our strength, how we have managed our challenges, that we've maintained stable margins and profitability and that we have used our cash in a very prudent way to continue to manage the business going forward.  

From then you will hear once again record-setting performance in Verizon wireless but more importantly, I think you will get some insights as to why we believe there will be no let up and an opportunity to continue to build a lead and a commanding presence in the market place, because the wireless space still has tremendous upside, and our view is to continue to take a premium share of that business going forward. And from Larry, I think you will see some very, very solid signs of a shifting mix, and evolving business model. Focusing on the things that we think will produce good returns in the future, and managing the secular changes affecting the industry and more importantly, I think you will see signs of some exciting, new technology and some exciting new products and services that we think will command a lot of attention in the telecom space as we go forward. Now, normally we do these -- these calls or these meetings on a conference call. Based on many of your comments, what we have found is that once we finished the presentations, there are two or three or four questions, and there's usually probably another 50 that you would like to ask us, so our goal today is to give you more opportunity for a comprehensive Q&A session with each of the speakers. Each of them will answer your questions after they are finished. I will come up at the end and then answer any additional questions that you might have and then wrap up and we'll get you out of here at a reasonable hour. As you might expect, today is all about our third quarter results. It's all about our strategy. It's all about helping you better understand the capacity that we have built into our business, and the direction that we see going. We will talk a lot more about 2005 in January, so today is not about guidance for next year, but it should give you some insights, as to our strategic thinking, as you take a look and extrapolate out our performance through the third quarter of this year. So with that, it is my pleasure to introduce our Chief Financial Officer, Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, EXEC. VP, VERIZON: Thanks, Ivan and good morning. Let me start by saying that I am very pleased with our solid quarterly results. They demonstrate another quarter of solid performance. So let's get to the highlights. Revenue growth of 6.7%, represents a 1.1 billion increase over third quarter last year. This is the highest growth rate we've seen in a number of quarters. Revenues are also up sequentially for the second quarter in a row, increasing by more than 450 million or 2.5%. Verizon wireless now represents more than 40% of our revenue stream. We had another solid quarter of margin and cash flow performance and we have used our cash to further reduce debt and strengthen the balance sheet. Looking at earnings, adjusted earnings per share were 65 cents this quarter. The only adjustment to reported earnings of 64 cents per share was an after-tax charge of 20 million or one cent per share for pension settlements under FAS 88. This is related to employees would received lump sum pension distributions during the quarter. So adjusted EPS of 65 cents and 64 cents on the reported basis. Again, we are pleased with another quarter of strong quality earnings.  

Our revenue growth mix and mix change is being fueled by wireless, broadband, long distance, and gains in the the enterprise market. Today 55% of our revenues come from these initiatives, up from 49% a year ago. Over the past year, revenues from these initiatives have grown by 21% and incremental 1.7 billion in revenues. At the segment level, Verizon wireless continues to be our primary growth driver, with a 23% increase in total revenue. Although wire line revenues were down 2.1% from last year, they were up 25 million from last quarter which is the second quarter in a row of sequential growth. I have combined international and information services on this chart, resulting in a 1% increase over last year. International revenues grew by 11.2% year-over-year and were basically flat sequentially. And information services revenues were down 4.2% year-over-year, however, relatively flat sequentially. Our adjusted operating income margins excluding pension and OPEB remains strong at 21%. This is up from 19% in the third quarter last year, and down from 22% last quarter. The sequential decline is due to the significant customer growth in wireless, and seasonal overtime in wire lines.  

Going forward, I remain confident that we can maintain stable margins, as we drive growth. This quarter, once again demonstrates our ability to generate strong cash flows. Cash flow from operations totaled 5.6 billion in the third quarter, up 300 million or 5.5% versus a year ago. Year-to-date CFFO is nearly $15.5 billion. Sequentially, free cash flows are less than last quarter, due to a Vodofone dividend payment of 814 million, made in late August. That leaves about 3.2 billion of free cash flow year to date, which as you know, we have used to strengthen our balance sheet and reduce debt. At the end of the quarter, total debt stood at 40.5 billion, a reduction of 1.4 billion since second quarter and is 4.9 billion less than the beginning of the year. Now, I will take you through some of our segment highlights, starting with wireless. Verizon wireless delivered another record quarter, extremely strong results which improve with each passing quarter. A few highlights, net adds of nearly 1.7 million were a new record for us, and an overall domestic record for the industry. Service ARPU continued to trend up, increasing to 5158. The churn rate for the quarter was down to 1.53, and revenue growth, margins, and cash flows were all very strong. EBITDA margin was 43.7, up from 40.1 last year.  

Let's get underneath some of the specific operating metrics. Service ARPU grew by 3.1%, to its highest level ever. This is an increase of more than $1.50 over last year. While data accounts for a significant portion of this growth, we also continue to see ARPU accretion from the increasing number of customers subscribing to America's Choice plans, with access levels of $55 or higher. In fact, during the course of last year, we added about 3.3 million subscribers to these higher paying plans. The combination of higher ARPU, and strong customer growth is driving service revenue growth of 20.6%. This was our best quarter ever, not only for net adds but also for growth adds. Growth adds increased by more than 300,000 sequentially. Our IN products which stands for In Network has truly caught the attention of customers, truly impressive numbers. If you look at industries of comparable size, the Verizon wireless growth performance, once again, ranks among the top companies globally and clearly demonstrates the premium franchise we have built.  

We also continue to improve the quality of our base through emphasis on postpay customers and service contracts. Retail postpay customers now account for 92% of our base, up 1% from a year ago. Less than 10% of the gross adds during the quarter were prepay customers. The success of this strategy is evident in our churn levels. Retail postpay churn was 1.29, down about 14 basis points from last year. The churn reflects our focus on having a premier network, coupled with provision of high, quality service. Wireless data now represents more than 1 billion annualized revenue stream, and accounted for 4.7% of service revenues this quarter. More than 78% of our customers now have have 1x handsets up from 40% just a year ago. So we are excited about the wireless data opportunity. We believe our success will be even more robust as we roll out more and more EVDO coverage and introduce a full suite of products and services for this advanced high speed network. We are not only growing fast, but also profitably. Let me spend a minute or so on telling you what is driving the profitability.  

We have always focused on distribution as a way to differentiate our service and manage our costs. Almost two out of every three new customers comes through the Verizon wireless direct channel, principally our Company-owned stores and kiosks. This distribution efficiency has helped us keep our acquisition costs essentially flat over the past year. Scale is also a significant factor in our profitability. We have effectively controlled our cash cost per customer with this rapid growth. We have also done a good job of improving employee productivity. As I wrap up wireless I wanted to show you some benchmarking charts which differentiate Verizon wireless and demonstrate our leadership position. Whether it's customer growth, expense controls, churn rate or profitability, we continue to distance ourselves from the competition. And when it comes to average service revenue per customer, we have seen a steady increase in ARPU each quarter this year. In fact, we are the only provider of those who have reported to have ARPU accretion this quarter. A very strong statement about our value proposition, the quality of our growth and the high percentage of retail postpay customers in the mix.  

Let me shift over to the wire line business, where we continue to generate improved results. Here are a few highlights: Revenues were up 25 million sequentially on a base of over 9.6 billion. This is the second quarter in a row of sequential growth. In fact our consumer, business and wholesale lines of business all generated sequential revenue improvement in the the third quarter. Underlying our business market growth were data revenues which rose by 11.5%. UNE-P net adds during the quarter were significantly lower than prior quarters. In fact, 75% lower than second quarter alone. We continue to capture the cost savings resulting from the voluntary retirement program at the end of last year. This has allowed us to sustain our operating margin and continue to generate very strong cash flows, even as we fund initiatives like LD, DSL, FIOS, and Enterprise Advance. Third quarter operating income margins excluding pension and OPEB were 16.3% on a sequential basis these margins were down slightly from 17.1 or 71 million, due primarily to seasonal overtime and associate wage increases in August. Cash flow from operations totaled 2.9 billion in the quarter which was about the same as last year. As you have heard me say many times, I am relentless on preserving margins and sustaining strong cash flows.  

Let's take a more detailed look at the revenues by line of business, starting with consumer. On a sequential basis third quarter revenues increased 36 million to 3.9 billion. On a year-over-year basis, revenues were down 127 million or 3.2%. Revenues from long distance and DSL along with the popularity of our Verizon Freedom packages are helping to offset the challenges posed by technology substitution, and competition. Third quarter average monthly revenue per household exceeded 49.50 per month, up more than $1.25 from second quarter, and more than $2 or about 4% from year ago levels. In business, revenues of 3 billion grew 20 million sequentially and are flat compared with third quarter a year ago. Higher data revenues principally in enterprise business, including both transport and CPE helped drive the improved performance. Wholesale revenues of 2.3 billion were up 47 million sequentially and are up 167 million or 8% year-over-year. Local wholesale revenues from both wire line carriers, CLEX, and wireless companies needing bandwidth have contributed to this growth. As far as special access, we were encouraged by the increasing demand for higher bandwidth circuits like DS-1s and DS-3s. We are also beginning to see increased demand for OCN as enterprises begin to migrate to even higher bandwidth capacity.  

Finally third quarter revenues in the all other category were 523 million, down 78 million or 13% sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, the decline is 240 million, or 31.5%. A couple of things going on here, first is the absence of about 30 million in quarterly revenues from BBNT which we sold in March of '04, second there's an absence of revenue from certain non-core activities which were either no longer emphasized or operated. These include our international LD and data network, some video operations in California and Florida, and inventory management services. The declining revenue effect of many of these activities is ongoing and is per our plan. You can expect to see year-over-year declines in this all other category again next quarter. For example, the effect of the sale of the Help Line systems which we just sold in October. That's a quick overview of the four lines of the business categories within the wire line segment. Now let's take a closer look at the volume starting with access lines.  

Total switch access lines were down 4.4% on a year-over-year basis to 53.7 million. Total residential lines were down 4.8. And business lines were down 3.6%. Business is straight forward. On a sequential basis we lost an additional 136,000 lines in the quarter, continuing the trend of steady improvement. Business line erosion has improved by double digit percentages, for two quarters in a row. With respect to total residential lines, which include both retail and wholesale, we continue to see line erosion for all the same reasons we have cited for a while now. Namely wireless and broadband substitution and other competitive alternatives. Nothing new here, except that the economics of this erosion has actually improved for us, due to the significant reduction in the amount of retail lines lost to wholesale or UNE-P. Just to make sure we're clear on this, on a sequential basis we lost an additional 530,000 residential lines during the third quarter. However, within this total line loss, the residential retail line erosion improved significantly. We lost 34% less retail lines in the the third quarter than the second quarter. 518,000 compared to 784,000. At the end of -- and of the 105,000 net additional UNE-P lines added in the quarter, only 7,000 were residential.  

It is obvious that the reduced consumer marketing presence of AT&T and MCI has not only resulted in less new lines lost to UNE-P, but has also impacted the total residential line loss. This is a net positive indication for the future. As the mix of retail and wholesale line losses improve, we should see less margin pressure from UNE-P. So it's fair to say that we expect to see less UNE-P effects going forward. I believe it's also fair to say that we expect to see a continuation of residential retail lines lost to wireless, broadband, including our own DSL and competitive alternatives. To date we have been able to mitigate the effects of this secular trend by focusing on increasing revenue per customer through greater penetration of our bundled. This has resulted in higher revenue per household and flat to modest sequential increases in consumer revenues this year. We will continue to be active in the area of retention, being sure that we maintain a competitive value proposition in the market. For example, this quarter we introduced some new service to offerings like Freedom Unlimited, VoiceWing, and Iobi home. Larry's going to go through some more progress on this later this morning.  

Bundling continues to be very successful to both retaining customers and growing revenue per household. 53% of our retail customers now have two or more services from us. In long distance, we continue to gain share, adding another 525,000 lines during the past three months. We now have more than 17.3 million LD lines in service. Total long distance revenues were nearly 1.1 billion in the quarter, representing an 8.7% growth from last year. We also believe that the most critical component to retaining customers is the broadband connection. We are making steady progress in this area, adding 309,000 DSL lines in the quarter and 934,000 year-to-date. DSL revenues in the quarter were about 340 million, an increase of more than 60%, versus the same quarter a year ago, and 14% sequentially. In the future, as we provision of more of our FIOS service to customers we will expand the definition of broadband lines to customers to include both DSL and FIOS.  

Let's spend a minute or so on the data services. We posted an 11.5% increase in data revenue this quarter. The main driver here is higher data transport revenue, which includes both retail and wholesale services in the business market, and DSL on the consumer and small business market. We continue to see pickup in demand for transport services and business. DS-1 volumes have grown more than 8% in the past year, driven in large part by the wireless carriers. And DS-3 volumes have increased by more than 7%. These are encouraging signs, to date we are seeing this growth more evident in the enterprise market than the small business market. We remain pleased with our progress of our enterprise advance initiative where we are winning new business and improving our network and system capabilities. As you know, gaining share in the enterprise space is an important strategic objective. We see this as a big area of opportunity for us and we are putting the right amount of resources behind this effort. To date we have done a credible job making headway with enterprise customers and expect to continually improve our competitive position as we introduce more data service offerings. Joint marketing efforts with Verizon wireless continue to go well, especially in the area of remote access for mobile professionals. We remain on track to meet our stated goal of 250 million in revenues from our enterprise advance in 2004.  

Switching gears to the cross side of the equation. Our results reflect our commitment to operational excellence, and demonstrate once again our ability to manage our business efficiently. In wire line our work force levels are down about 15,700 people, or 10.1% since this time last year. Cash expenses in the third quarter are lower than last year by 211 million and are higher by 90 million sequentially. In looking at the comparison to year-over-year from last year, remember that the third quarter of '03 included about 190 million of additional expenses related to adverse weather and work stoppage contingency planning. As I said earlier, the sequential change is primarily seasonal overtime, and associate wage increases. Our continued focus on cost controls, and the success of our productivity initiative is critical to operating margin stability. I would like to sum up the wire line segment by highlighting a few critical financial trends.  

I think these graphs depict the strength and the stability of the business as you can readily see the quarter-to-quarter consistency across revenues, margins, and CFFO. Shifting to capital, we continue to allocate more capital to growth areas and new technologies, such as Enterprise Advance, EVDO and FTTP. As you see on this chart, more than 60% of the capital that we have invested this year went to support growth businesses. The year-over-year increase in spending is almost solely wireless. Where in spite of the increased spending the ratio of CapEx to revenue continues to decline. To conclude, I am very pleased with the operational performance of Verizon. I am confident that we will continue to improve our competitive position across all of our markets you can also expect consistent margin performance and sustained cash flow generation through the rest of the year. Lastly we are well positioned to take advantage of improving industry sector and improving regulatory environment. We believe the investments we are making in wireless, broadband, and the enterprise markets will bode well for us as we provide both the platform and the capacity for future growth. With that, I will take questions. Tim?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED, ANALYST, UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think that we would answer it -- I'm sure Denny would answer it, that it's the continued doing the basics. It's all of the above. It's the network quality, it's the coverage. I think it's not taking your eye off the ball and just continuing to do all the same things. Clearly the amount that we have invested in capital over the last several years, I think you will remember, you know there was a big push years ago that it was way too much capital to have invested in the network, has proven to be, you know, the -- you know, the strategic advantage, I think, the quality of the network and we'll continue to do so. John?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think at the moment, you know, we just heard about that this morning. We have been comfortable with the DSL pricing. You saw Comcast yesterday. Their ARPU was $43. If you look at the other cable guys they have not taken their average ARPU down. So for the moment we are not hearing pricing as a reason that customers are leaving us to go to cable. So I think we'll continue to look at it, but for right now, I think we stay where we are. Simon?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think the capital guidance that we have with 12 to 13 billion, we will be at the top of that range. So, you know, it's at the very top of the range. As far as the right capital structure, you know, I said for a long time, debt-to-EBITDA of about 1.5, we are approaching that now. Maybe a little bit below that and when we get to that comfortably, it gives us the flexibility, you know to be able to look at other options, whether it be, you know, dividends, stock buybacks, so I think that, you know, comes into a next year time frame.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: The question was really to compare us to SBC, as far as UNE-Ps and where we are. Talk about win back and then finally what I will call the off net, where the off net folks went. I guess if I step back and give you a longer answer. First of all on a win back, I -- I think we ought not to be focused just on the one number, to sort of -- just to broaden it a little bit, if you think about win back, from our perspective, we know who left -- who left us over the last year. So when we talk about win backs, in general, we have records to -- to call and talk to those customers, and see how we're doing. In general, we're running 55, 60% of the folks that we're calling and doing on win back. However, you know, there's that embedded base that we're several other years older that, you know, will be sort of natural win backs but I don't think you can be focused on the one number. I do think that different companies may measure it differently. And -- and they give their statistics. As far as -- oh, off net was the other piece of that? If you look at our numbers and you look at the retail piece, and you think about what we might have gotten in -- in win backs, I think what you see is you will actually see some that some seasonality did come back into the retail. The other piece was win back. However, on the off net, that continues. It continues -- I think actually wireless may be growing a little bit to the extent that wireless in our own region is a good thing for us, right, if it actually goes there because the margins are the same or higher. We are seeing it through our own DSL. So as DSL picks up, people are dropping the second line. And then we see at the cable modems would be the other one. And we also see it to, you know, the VoIP, if you would and Cablevision. I would say that if you look across the region, we probably have two states that see the most reduction, which is in New York and New Jersey where we did see, you know some impact from Cablevision. But I think the trends -- I don't think -- we do not have more off net this quarter than last quarter. It's about the same level, but I would expect that level to continue.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. The question was: I guess, CapEx going forward, both wireless and wire line. If I start with the wireless just for a second just to reiterate what I told you. We have a growth business, the kind of growth that they are generating to have a little bit of capital growth for them, I think it's the right thing to do, more coverage, you have, you know, better service, and on the wire line side, you know, we're sort of looking at still -- I think Ivan talked a couple of weeks ago where we sort of gave guidance of slight increase. We have told you sort of the numbers at the moment, what we would expect for next year. So I would say with the guidance that Ivan gave from a while ago, it's a slight increase and as we work through it and get more specifics, we'll come back to you and give you a number. That would be more in the January kind of time frame.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. I think there's a lot that's going on in the wire line -- in the wire line issue. One piece, which is to the extent DSL continues to get better over -- year-over-year, which it does. You see the margin improvement from that. I had mentioned that the UNE-Ps, as the UNE-Ps come back, you'll have margin improvement there. The other thing is there is an enormous amount of opportunity for productivity and really using systems to -- to do more. If you look at a lot of our systems, whether it's in the call centers or in the repair centers, there's a lot more we can do on the Web, and just whether it's, you know, in -- in any of our functions, and I do think we do have some flexibility, you know so we don't have -- you know there's some flexibility, certainly with force, certainly in the old GTE properties there is flexibility. You have flexibility with anyone that's been hired since last August, you have flexibility with management. But I continue to see that we are doing more and more with our systems to be, you know, more state-of-the-art. John?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE MEMBER  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yeah, I don't think we've settled on our 2005 numbers. We certainly announced, you know, the 5,000 number on the fiber piece. We really haven't -- there will be some offsetting on the other part of the business. Quite frankly we have not settled on '05, so I can't give you an exact number as to where we have landed. I don't know if Larry will have a better, you know, number when he comes up. Yep?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. How are we doing on DirecTV? What was the last -- I couldn't hear the last piece of it.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

DOREEN TOBEN: DirecTV in non-FIOS. How I use DirecTV in non-FIOS households. As far as DirecTV, I would tell you that we've been really pleased. I think DirecTV is pleased with where we are. We are on budget so it's where we expect to be. At the moment, I'm not going to release a number, but things are going well. Are improving and in the non-FIOS. Well, FIOS at the moment is a very small piece. So the rest of it, I mean, I think we have rolled out DirecTV every place else. So every place else, and we'll sort of -- as FIOS comes into it, I don't think we see it initially as extremely, you know, against each other. Is that Frank? Okay.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

DOREEN TOBEN: On the -- the first question was on college disconnects and if I can really do that. It's sort of not like the old days where everybody had residential centrex, so you could see whether it came back or not, so I don't have a good number to tell you on the reconnects. Do we think that wireless is a big piece of the student population? Yes. But if you look at most of the universities, a lot of them still actually have to have -- you know they have to have their four digit number in their room so they actually still have to have a phone. We did see in the few states that we think there's seasonality, did see some of it come back. If you looked at my chart, that's part of the reason the retail number was better. The second -- oh, the UNE-P. The UNE-P churn is -- we can only estimate what it is. We think it runs sort of in the -- you know, 5 to 8% but that churn -- a lot of this churn is amongst themselves, like, for example if you look at IDT, you can see that, certainly not all of their adds come from us. In fact a lot come from the other -- other players. It appears that the volumes on the ends look like they are much higher but more than that, I can't give you at the moment. So -- okay. One more. Yes.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. The question is really enterprise advance, how is it doing this year? How will it do next year? How is it trending? I'm not going to give quarterly numbers. I said that early on that 250 was the number and we're happy that it's going to meet its number and it's clearly on target. Clearly the trend is up. You know, substantially up for next year. It continues to be, as we have said all along, a long sales and billing cycle so between the sales cycle and some of these complex networks if they are connecting new data networks or new data centers can take upwards of 9, 12 and 18 months to go in. So we do consider it extremely strategic for us. It's a -- you know, a business that -- that we think is nothing but upside for us. And we have a lot further to go in market share. So the numbers will grow, but, you know, as far as what the actual number is up next year, I'm not going to go there at the moment. Okay. I would be pleased to introduce Larry Babbio who will go through the Teleco piece.  

LARRY BABBIO, VICE CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, VERIZON: Thank you, Doreen. Good morning, everybody. This morning I would like to separate the presentation into a couple of different parts. First of all, what I would like to call an operational review. I reviewed our strategy in the beginning of 2004, in order to try and lay out what we hope to accomplish in order to strengthen our competitive position. So today I want to give you a progress report on that and as to how we stand at the end of the third quarter. The second part of the presentation, I would like to do a couple of things. First I would like to provide you with a little more color around the fibers of the premises initiative including some of the customer related metrics that we have seen in the early stages and lastly I would like to give you some more of our thinking around what we have described as our access line repositioning strategy. Let's go back to a couple of things we've talked about in the past, though. Clearly at our January meeting, I provided an overview of the strategies of the wire line business. And the overall message of the presentation that day was that even though we have secular trends going on in the industry, we are focused and have been focused on maintaining stability, gaining some growth and creating value in what we call operational excellence.  

As you know, the model that we used to run this business has been a consistent one. It optimizes the mix of revenue, margins, cash, and ultimately we use that cash to fund a new growth initiative and that business model has some very fundamental strategies upholding it. They are, first, delivering the best value proposition that we can to meet the customer requirements. They are to develop a world-class infrastructure, and our fundamental belief is that we absolutely need to provide great service at every turn, and that will essentially create overall the best way to be efficient in the business and ultimately generate the steady margins, the returns on capital, it will drive strong cash flow, and will also provide what we consider sustainable financial performance. The model also provides the team with the flexibility to respond to both the technological changes going on in the industry, and the competitive environment that, again, changes on a regular basis. This is absolutely critical to us, as we plan for the future. And that is something that we are equally focused on today, and that is -- and that will become more evident as I go through the presentation. I want to emphasize or maybe re-emphasize some of the points that Doreen made. Excuse me. And also give you a little bit of my own perspective on some of these statistics. In summary, I believe that the telecom's performance this year is one where we began to see improving top line performance, while at the same time, we delivered more stable margins.  

So let's look at a few of the results. We have been looking for signs of stability in the revenue area, and our underlying volumes and I think, in fact, we are beginning to see it, revenues were up sequentially as Doreen mentioned, albeit slightly, for the second quarter in a row. In fact, if you take a look at the different business units, consumer, business, wholesale units, all of them showed sequential improvement this quarter. Our growth initiatives on the data side including things like DSL, long distance, Enterprise Advance, we're almost $2.7 billion that's about a 28 -- 28% now of the total revenue and up almost 15% over last year. Consumer ARPU, at almost $50, was up, year-over-year and sequentially. And shows the impact of the growth initiatives and the bundling and all the efforts that we've put into trying to get more wallet share in this particular market segment. The most important item, however, related to our revenue results are the volumes that underlie these numbers. DS-1 and DS-3 volumes up considerably that produced revenue growth of about 11%. DSL net adds at 309,000 in the quarter and over 1.1 million year-to-date. That's -- excuse me again. That's about where we expected them to be and are about 50% more than a year ago.  

On the long distance side, which is still a growth business for us, we delivered close to another 2.5 million customers over the past year, and that helped us strengthen not only the LD results but also the bundling results. The bottom line, we've now seen two consecutive quarters of sequential revenue growth and our growth products are increasingly offsetting the loss in our traditional businesses. We have also maintained our focus on costs, improving efficiency and making sure that we spend every dollar wisely. Last year's cost reduction will help us cut almost $1 billion out of the salary, wage and related employee costs this year. Expenses usually run a little bit higher in the summer months, and as we deal with storms and hurricanes, that type of thing that -- generally cause sequential deterioration. Operating income margins are a good story given our shift to some of the growth products that I've talked about. The measure that many of you model in our business is the cash generation. Year-to-date the unit has produced about $8 billion in cash. From the operations of the business, and that includes a billion dollars that we paid out in severance in January, as a result of the employees who left at the end of last year. Regarding the capital, an increasing portion, about 29% of our capital is now focused on growth opportunities. And again, the early results of FTTP initiatives, hopefully you will see why we feel so strongly regarding the growth potential in fiber, and the related products and services that our fiber deployment strategies will bring. While these third quarter results are all encouraging, there continues to be much more to do, new challenges lie ahead of us and I will be addressing those as I speak.  

Total access line. Total access lines were down 4.4%, versus a year ago, and sequentially down about 673,000 lines, slightly less than the third quarter -- slightly less than the last quarter. Its been about four years now since we have seen access line growth. So I don't think anybody in this audience is surprised at the news that access lines continue to decline. More importantly, as I have said to audiences like this in the past, access lines are becoming less meaningful as time goes on, as an indicator of the health of the business. In the consumer market, I'm not sure we're ever going to look forward to much access line growth, when you measure them in the traditional fashion. During the quarter we lost 530,000 consumer access lines, which is about the same as we lost in the second quarter. We did see an improving trend on the retail line side, where we lost about 260,000 less in the third quarter than we did in the second quarter. In consumer, we actually saw a 12,000 decline in total wholesale lines. So we're seeing a far better mix of customers, as we move the negative margins associated with the UNE lines.  

Some other thoughts on this subject. Customers are moving up the bandwidth ladder this has an impact on the overall access line. We added a total of 309,000 DSL lines as I mentioned this quarter, some of which are clearly substitutes for the access line. Customers are disconnecting second lines when they get DSL. As a matter of fact, second lines are dropping at a rate of about 16%, which is significantly higher than the primary line losses. As I look at customers with broadband, we know that they will be a higher value customer, and that is why we are moving to accelerate the availability of our DSL and now moving aggressively to offer FIOS. Beyond broadband, I believe we see increasing effect of wireless substitution. If we look at the business market we see some stabilization. Sequential business access line losses have improved slightly, since the second quarter, but the story here is similar. Customers are migrating to data service, which is impacting traditional access line accounts. We are still in the early days, in a market place without active marketing of UNE-P from companies like MCI and AT&T. We have seen the amount of losses decline as Doreen pointed out, and we have a very focused win back program to try to go after the right mix of customers that are coming off the MCI and the AT&T UNE platforms. All of this is a good segue, I think, into the next slide and I will deal with the consumer market place.  

This is a chart that I showed you in January and what I call some of the key execution areas for 2004. Our focus has been to drive penetration of our growth products like DSL and long distance, enhance the bundled, introduce new services and raise the level of service through our Encore centers. We are also creating new platforms, FIOS, fiber to the premises, to drive the future growth in the mass market. We also wanted to add some new products DirecTV, VoIP, Iobe,Verizon one. Let's see where we are right now, though. Frankly, I think we have executed pretty well in this area. This has been a challenging environment, as you all know. But without going through all of the metrics on the chart, the key ones I will focus on for a minute are broadband, on bundles, on retention, on ARPU. About 53% of our retail customers now subscribe to a package. It usually includes local and long distance or local and DSL and we have had significant success driving penetration that has helped us to increase our consumer revenue per customer per month, as mentioned earlier, about 4.4% year-over-year. We also obviously like the stickiness of the bundles. We have about 3.5 million Freedom packages, that's increased by 1 million, over the past year. The customers that take Freedom or Freedom with DSL have about 70% less churn than customers without the package. Also, the average customer generates about $5 higher revenue per customer per month, with the packages.  

In addition, we now have about 475,000 customers on our one bill product offering. We added a million DSL and two million long distance customers over the past year. And when we do it through our bundles and our packages, it improves the economics, the customer loyalty and does attract more of the high value customers that we're looking for. In addition to long distance, and DSL, we're offering other new products in our bundle. We've got DirecTV, now available nationwide. We have just launched what we call iobe Home and we also believe that it's about more than just price. It's also about office. This year we have accelerated to the customers who have now served through our encore centers, it's really an enhanced service channel for us. We now serve about 800,000 customers through our encore service channel. In the small business market, this is very much like the consumer market and it is moving in very similar directions. It is a very competitive market. It has a broad disbursed customer base. We have about 2.4 million customers. Have about 8 million lines. Our focus has been to expand the channel coverage in this market. We want to drive bundles. Here again we want to drive the win back programs and business customers are asking, what in many cases some of the large customers are asking us to do, even at the small end, they are saying we need you to converge and integrate the various services that we offer -- that we take from you, both the dial up and the special services.  

So if you take a look at what we have done this year, we've made significant headway in the small business market. But this is an area where I think we can crank up our efforts even further and I think we can drive this market to generate some new revenue in the upcoming year. We have added about 200 people in the sales channels, who will focus on a very highly competitive market places like Boston, Philadelphia, New York, and Tampa, on the product side, we continue to offer Freedom bundles in this package, we've been fairly successful in penetrating the small business market with long distance. We now have about a 41% penetration of long distance and total long distance customers increased by 500,000 customers during the past year. Data is a key part of this market. We have equipped about 380 central offices in strategic locations with HDSL, this now allows us to serve the high end business market with DSL. And as you can see, we have begun to increase DSL sales in this area but this is another area that I also think we're going to do better in next year. By the way about 27% of our DSL units are now part of a bundle. And in this market, as with our consumer bundling, we believe that that gets us to the high value customer, and it helps the retention. Quality service is critical in this sector and our focus through our own sales channel and with an expanding partnership arrangement, I think it's been very successful. It is up 50%. And it is reflected in recent JD Power surveys that have rated our business broadband service the best overall and we have received the top honor as well from the Yankee Group.  

We will be rolling out VoIP in this market place in 2005, we think this will be also a very significant move into the market place. Here again, my goal is to drive stability into this part of the business. We'll continue to work on win backs and we will focus our attention at the high end of this particular market. In the consumer and the small business market, in many cases we play as much defense as we do offense. But in this particular market, that's the enterprise market, we are definitely on the offense. We see this as a very significant market, about a $40 billion addressable market. We have a relatively low share, and we are continuing to organically grow in this market. We are building our networks, our systems and adding sales force and adding new products. Customer in this market want an integrated end-to-end platform. We can offer them that with a very high degree of reliable. Our goal in 2004 was to expand the market place. We have a goal of about $250 million in revenue. We think we can take advantage of the fact that many enterprise customers are early adopters. They want IP technology. They want it in a way that's convenient to them. That is that they don't have to change out their entire CPE network to get it. We believe that we can leverage our in franchise capability. We can get to price points in this market that are competitive, if the products are competitive and then with that improving cost advantage, we think we cannot only hold the margins in this market, but we can grow our share.  

We have launched a number of new products that has opened up some good opportunities for us, for example, we successfully lost IP VPN, as well as VON. We have expanded the market place by going into areas where we have not previously been. We're now in about 100 major markets throughout the country. In addition we are putting more resources into the sales channel, adding about another 600 people. As far as the results we are solidly on track to meet the $250 million objective that we set this year. We have made about 2,700 sales to date with more than 700 sales in the third quarter alone. That speaks a little bit to the trend and where we have seen it go lately. Just give you a couple of examples from recent sales. You know, a place like the U Mass memorial hospital center just signed seven years $9.6 million, basically SONET based facilities, a consortium of 45 New Jersey colleges, three years, $13 million. Essentially designed to install, manage and interact with broadband network that will allow all the members to interact with each other. Many, many more examples both large and small, but the point in this market is that we are now positioned for success, and for more growth in 2005. I believe the customers also believe that we are a serious player in this market. We will continue to expand the capabilities along the lines that I have just described. We'll be rolling out a managed enterprise voice service in the first half, and we will continue to expand the market into other critical geographies.  

On the wholesale side, we have two distinct markets. We have a high cap market and then we have a local market. The carrier market or the high cap market is really about generating price and value for our customers that we serve. Our goal is to encourage carriers to use our networks, rather than build networks of their own. The key is reliability, good service, availability, and the ease of interfacing with us through electronic systems. Switch and special services provide -- or we provide to our carriers generate about $5.5 billion, of high-margin business for us. Switched access per minute charges usually have declined due to regulatory orders. And the consumers are shifting more long distance calls to wireless phones. As a result, switched access revenues are declining and they currently amounts to about one-third of this particular market. Special access, on the other hand, is showing tremendous growth as carriers strive to meet the demands that customers place on them, for more bandwidth, control of their own networks, and we'll talk here in the future about some of things we're seeing in the wireless industry. On the local side, our focus has been to challenge the regulatory regime. And improve at the same time the efficiencies that we provide service in this channel.  

The carrier market has been a success story. The volumes are up, the service is better, the costs are down, obviously the regulatory side is not moving as fast as we would like, but we'll continue to grind this out day in and day out and I believe that the pendulum has swung or is beginning to swing in the right direction. So looking at what we call the good wholesale, high cap part of the business, the volumes are growing, DS-1s are up 12%, DS-3s are up 3%. We're beginning to see some significant growth at the optical level of those networks and a lot of this volume is being driven by the strong growth in the wireless industry, where we are the premier provider of services to connect the wireless industry to the network. The wholesale high cap growth is a good margin business and has contributed about -- has contributed significantly to the 11.5% growth on the data side of our business. The key market drivers in this area are more bandwidth, increased control, increased flexibility, and reduced costs. That's the network story that we have been driving not only this year, but in past years. All of these plans are being implemented with a very focused discipline, on how we spend our capital, how we build the infrastructure, and how can we get the most efficient operation so that we can generate the return that we have been looking for.  

On the access side, we have expanded our DSL footprint, by another 4 million lines. We now have 49 million lines qualified for DSL. We continue to lower the maintenance cost of our network. We enhanced the quality of the service, and we have seen our repair dispatches decline by about 600,000 calls over the past year. We have begun the evolution of our switching network to a packet network. We're moving forward with the enhanced service software services, that are driven by services like iobe. That can offer not only access across both our switched and our packet network, but also across our wired and our wireless networks. We have installed seven packet switches. We have got about 27% of our total long distance traffic originating and terminating on the packet network. This has enabled us to keep the cost per minute down. And we have now begun to replace the local switches with packet technology. We are a leader in moving our transport infrastructure to our more efficient packet, and IP-based technology, and we are strengthening both the local and the nationwide presence that we have, as we move across the country building a nationwide back bone to support our enterprise program. We now can offer IP, VP, IN, in 20 ladders in the country.  

Overall I think we've made good progress this year. It's been again, a challenging operating environment and as I said there are more things to do and I think we will further strengthen the business. Let me move, if I can, to a few words on fiber to the premises deployment. This is a key area. And it is especially important that we do this to upgrade the local access plan. In some cases, as people would like to say, the access plan is truly your grandfather's network. And there seems to be a lot of disputes, some may even characterize it as a religious war in the industry regarding the technology, the timing, the costs of what's the best way to deliver broadband to the customer. The one thing that all the carriers agree on, is that customers want more bandwidth today and they will continue to want more in the future. And as you know, we have decided that we are moving the business to fiber to the premises. We don't believe that a copper-based technology is in the long term operating interest of the business. We don't believe that copper in the base or copper in our outside plant would form a basis for a successful network in the future. We believe fiber to the premises provides more services, higher speed, greater convenience, more opportunities for revenue growth and clearly more opportunities to lower the operating costs. Something that you cannot get by leaving copper, any amount of copper in the outside plan. More importantly, part fiber, part copper is inferior to the competitive network. All fiber is far superior to the competitive network. We should not lose sight of some of the regulatory benefits that come when you upgrade the entire infrastructure to fiber to the premises.  

Let's look at some of the early results. You should not think that it's just a coincidence that the FCC voted to clarify some of the unbundling issues on broadband and then we announced last week the remaining states in our 2004 deployment plan. The regulatory treatment of broadband is a key incentive for us to invest in the new technologies, as we want to mix our -- move our business to a better mix of regulated and deregulated businesses. On Tuesday, we announced that Motorola will be providing the infrastructure, the set top boxes, as well as the systems for the video piece of this business. And we are targeting a video offering for the first half of next year. Just to get back to the announcements, if I could. Let me give you some of the flavor of what we've been up to. And I know one of you is out there, -- maybe a lot of you are out there, already pumping these numbers into your models. But we currently have about 1.3 million premises engineer, who have laid about 32 million feet of fiber sheet mile that really equates to about 6,000 fiber miles and you can measure that against anything you want. Round trip from Los Angeles to New York but frankly, Los Angeles to New York is not where this country needs the fiber, it needs it up and down every street so that you can get fiber to the premises, as we planned it. Needless to say, the entire organization has been very active and very busy performing this engineering job.  

I also might tell you that the people who see the competition day in and day out, and that;s the employees in the field, are energized about this undertaking. They recognize the competitive nature of the environment. They recognize the need to upgrade the network the way we're talking about it. They're excited about building the next generation network and so are we. We have learned a lot about how we can be more efficient in deploying the fiber. We have done all sorts of things from the early introduction in terms of preconnecting the loops, we've challenged the engineering standard, we have prepositioned certain conduit applications so that it's easier to do the installation when we get an order. We have engineered our order -- I'm sorry, we have engineered the orders so that we can afford our prefabricated cables. All of which, we believe ultimately drives down the cost of building this outside infrastructure. It is exciting to see at all levels the employees engaged in the process to trying to make this operation as efficient and effective as possible. We have been seeing the productivity improve as we've gone along. We've also built about 40 new operating support systems to support fiber to the premises. That streamlined the provisioning and the maintenance process so that service reps are now looking at an all in one complete system. Lower costs, better customer service.  

So if we now take a look at some of the offerings you can see what we are excited about, we have three service tiers as you can see from this slide. The one key differentiator that some people have not focused on yet is that we believe one thing will attract customers is that we now have two megabits of upstream speed. This will be an significant enhanced applications for transferring large files, for inactive programming, for gaming. Keller, Texas was our first market. Launched in mid-August. For those of you not familiar with the Keller area, it is a suburb of the Dallas -- the Dallas-Fort Worth area. It has about 15,000 homes. Very good demographics. Prior to the launch of FIOS. Our broadband penetration was about 13%. FIOS alone, just FIOS now stands at 13%. That's in less than three month. What we have essentially done by deploying FIOS in that area is double the broadband penetration and this in just a few months. About two-thirds of the customers that we are attracting are either from dial up, or other DSL or from cable modem. So you can see we are attracting the type of customer that we think will get the long-term value proposition.  

We have done a couple of things now. We have accelerated broadband penetration. We have grabbed share from the cable competitor and we have a superior value proposition. We have often been asked what would people be doing with 15 megabits. Well about one-third of the customers that we've sold this to tell us they have found things to do with it, whether it's gaming, whether it's telecommunicating -- telecommuting, whether it's networking multiple PCs in the same home, they are utilizing 15 megabits. Now I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves, since we are really at the leading edge here. We're only looking at these results after about 10 weeks of marketing but what we can see so far is that this has very positive results. Let me talk a little bit about access lines, repositioning. Actually as I was preparing the presentation, we were not sure whether to talk about fiber to the premises first or access line repositioning, because in many ways these two things are linked. What we would like to have ultimately is to change the business mix, more broadband and a more efficient platform that's less regulated and at the same time we want to reduce our exposure to some of the lower growth assets that we have. That is the ones that are traditionally regulated.  

Therefore we can enhance our broadband mix and we believe the best way to do that is to shed some of the existing access lines. This is an area that we are currently assessing very carefully, we are looking at alternatives. We are looking at which geographies, or bundle of geographies, and we are looking at what's the right form. Outright sales or other options that we might have in terms of spin-off. As you know, we have disposed of a number of properties over the course of the last few years. You can see some of them on the map, and we right now have Hawaii in the process. This will result in a smaller business, but one that is a higher penetration of broadband, more flexible from an operating standpoint. On the cost side of the equation, at our January meeting, we updated you on how we plan to remove cost from the business. We have kept our eye firmly focused on that goal. Telecom employees are down almost 16,000 over the past year. We continue to see significant increases in the usage of our online portals. We have over 6 million transactions now conducted online. That's growing at about the rate of about 76% over last year. Our voice portals now handle about 2 million transactions per day. We will reduce the net square footage that we occupy by about 2.5 million square feet this year and we will continue to introduce tools that will improve the efficiency, improve our dispatch systems, and ultimately improve our productivity. That's increased by about 5% over the course of the last year. All in all, we see about $1 billion of annual cost savings coming from all the different downsizings and the related savings as a result of those downsizings. This has contributed to our margin performance as cash expenses, including the -- excluding pension and OPEB are down about a percent year-over-year.  

In summary, I feel good about where we are, and I think I feel very good about where we're going as we're making progress in a number of important spots. We recognize the challenges that we face. It is a very competitive market but we are strongly focused on making sure that we continue to transform our business and improve our competitive position. We believe that we can hold or improve our position in every market that we serve. We also believe that's transforming our network in a way that will generate higher value products will create a long-term platform that will generate growth for us far into the future. I will be happy to take a few questions. Yes, sir. Right in front.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION FROM AUDIENCE What is the minimum requirement for an ARPU pickup to make this work from a financial perspective and maybe the minimal requirement from an expense reduction? Is it $10 a month in ARPU that you need on average for home pass? Is it a $5 decrease in expenses and that makes it work from a free cash flow perspective?.  

LARRY BABBIO: That's a good question. We've modeled it of course, we think we know what we can get. If I take a look at the expense side where I think we can generate at a minimum -- at a minimum 50% savings in our operating cost once we have fully deployed fiber into an area and once we've reduced our dependency on the existing copper plant. When you take a look on the revenue side of that equation. Of course, there are two opportunities. First of all , we think when we offer the higher speed that the FIOS product offers above the DSL and above the cable modem speeds, we have the ability to charge another $5 or so or maybe $10 in that area. When we then offer video on the product at relatively low incremental cost once the fiber is out there, we have the ability to ultimately get into packages that probably could start at the base level of 40 to $50 and possibly add 20 to $30 on top of that for some of the premiere and selective programming and we think when we look at those combinations not to mention the fact that once we do all those things the revenue retained as a result of essentially being the only provider of services in the home. Our goal with FIOS is not just to be another provider of voice and another provider of video, and another provider of data, it's to be the provider of those services in the home. And the revenue that we retain through this is a significant area as well. So this whole issue has to come together, not just on the revenue or the expense side but on both as well as on the positioning of that as being the premier provider. And if we do all that, once we roll this product out, into the fourth and fifth year of operation, as most network operations take, then I think we're going to see this business start to contribute significant long-term value for the platforms, to contribute significant value. Yes, sir? Do you want to just take the mic so not only audience can hear you, but so I can hear you.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Absolutely. The follow on the same question, the $1000 per home pass, can you also give us an idea of what the customer premises equipment is going to cost from the data side, and possibly on the set top boxes side.  

LARRY BABBIO: Okay. There's all sorts of numbers that float around on homes path. Let me give you a couple of figures that the engineering folks -- and, again, I want you to always keep in mind that we are in such an early state of deployment that as we go along and we get better at this, the economics are going to change, I think fairly significantly. So if you look at what I would call the fixed costs of getting -- getting service to the home, it is -- it varies depending on whether you are in an aerial environment or a buried environment. Clearly, if you are in all aerial, and just getting by the home, you are probably incurring costs of less than $400 per home pass. And if you are in a buried environment, you are probably generating costs in the neighborhood of about 900, $950 or something in that range. And then, of course, you have the cost of what happens when you are in a -- you get the customer. And that is the variable cost of the equation. And, again, it varies any place in the range of 700 to $800, when you get the customer. And that, of course, depends on the success rate that you have in a particular area. And those are the numbers. So, again, you have got to look at the mix and you have got to look at how much you spend initially versus how much you spend when you win the customer.  

So to me the investment that you really want to look at and focus on is how much does it cost to pass the home. This I think is an important issue. This is probably much longer answer than you want, so I apologize for that, apologize to the other folks who have their hands up as well, the most important thing that you have to look at is not just going around the country, and compare what people are saying about the cost past because you will hear from us, well, it cost 350 here, $900 there, and then you will hear from other companies, that, you know, it only cost us 2 or $300, if you do a fiber to the node or a fiber to the curb solution. The other part you better build in your model and I know you guys are smart enough to do this is the penetration that results -- that will result as the result of having more bandwidth. If it's cheaper, on a fiber to the node basis, and you get one-third or one quarter of the success, then it isn't cheaper anymore. Then it's more expensive. And I think you understand that math. And our goal is not to pass the home at the cheapest possible cost but to get the right mix of homes pass, success in the market place and the right costs. And that I think is the best equation that we have got going here. Yes, sir.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you, Larry. Can I turn back to the access line repositioning? Can you help us think about the criteria you use? You mentioned regulatory environment. Is it also distance from the CO? Is it income factors in there? And what percentage of your line base are we talking about a third of the line base can never really get FIOS? And just to give us a sense of the scale of that, and how does New York feel, the upstate play into all of that.  

LARRY BABBIO: Okay. If I forget some of those questions, you will remind me. That's okay. Let me give you a sense of what we're thinking about in this area. First of all, if you are going to think about divesting access lines, there's a couple of ways you can do it. If you happen to be adjacent to some other companies, some other local telephone company that wants certain rural access lines because they happen to be contiguous, there might be an opportunity to sell some of those because operationally they may not fit into what you would like to do. They may be more rural in nature, they may not be lines that will ultimately get fiber to the premises. That could be one opportunity to sell access lines, other opportunities to sell access lines are like we have done in the past, where we have a few in a state where they are not near other operations where they're not integral to the operation of the total business, where they are not strategic. So we may decide that in that case it's better to generate the cash. Let's take Hawaii as the most recent example. If we generate a billion and a half, or a billion six, a good use for that cash would be to put some of it back into the fiber to the premises program. The other thing we have to look at is state by state options.  

There are some states where, frankly we are just not growing the way we should. We are not generating the cash the way we should. Some of it is the competitive environment, but a lot of it might have to do with the regulatory environment. And if we have a state like that, then I think we should minimize our exposure to that. You saw what happened -- what we did in New York state, there was no secret there, that we were not generating the amount of cash that we wanted to in New York state. We were not operating in an environment that we wanted to operate in and frankly I think we have an obligation to the share owners to make sure that we operate in areas that are profitable. I think frankly we are probably among the best operators in the world when it comes to telephone companies and if our determination is that you can't make money at it, we have an obligation to say, you know, we've got to go on and focus on the businesses that are important. So we may, in fact, either divest a part or all of a certain state where we don't see the right regulatory environment and the right cash. Now ultimately, depending on how you reposition the Company, you might be able to up your penetration of fiber to the premises, especially if you can divest yourself of those lines which you ultimately would have not upgraded anyway. My guess, though is that we are not talking here -- it's a guess. I'm probably more educated than I'm letting on. But it's clearly not our intention today to say we're going to divest a third. But at 55 million, could we be better off at 45 or 40 and take the lines, the money generated from those? You know, I'm probably a little bit ahead of my headlights the lawyers are probably now getting real nervous so I probably need to stop by telling you that all of this is not firm. We are still looking at this and we want to hold all of our options open. I don't know if I just went over the edge. Well, the lawyers just ran out of the room. Well, now we'll have a better meeting. Go ahead. [ LAUGHTER ] Yes?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Can you you make a comment, Larry about access lines. Thanks. Thanks. Larry, you made a comment about access lines declining but they seem to been showing some signs this quarter of declining at a little bit of an accelerating pace. Notwithstanding what you just said about replacing copper with fiber, over the next couple of years, do you anticipate those access line declines will decline faster than we have seen, particularly given cable company deployment of VoIP.  

LARRY BABBIO: Well, this is where Ivan always gives me a hard time. Because I like to talk to him about second derivatives, and he rolls his eyes at me and says only you would be wanting to talk about second derivatives, which as all of you in the audience obviously know. It's a change of the change. And the fact is that I do think that you are going to see, at least from access line standpoint, a little bit better change in the change, if you will. I don't see the access lines accelerating; although I have to tell you we are still at the early stages of the competitive thrust of the VoIP players. Both the ones that ride over broadband as well as the ones that come on an IP network such as the cable offering. So it may be a little bit early to make these predictions but I'm not predicting an acceleration of the numbers. I'm probably predicting more of a flattening or a slight improvement in those numbers. I especially will see that, again, we are going to have to look at this market by market, where we are rolling out new networks, where we are providing fiber. I think, we are going to be in a much better position, so clearly, I think, again, if you are all out there looking at traditional access lines and just bunching them all together, you are going to come to the wrong conclusions. You've got to kind of parse this apart -- that's probably redundant. You have got to parse this and then say how are we doing in place where the plants have been upgraded, how are we doing in other places? How are we doing in Cablevision territory? How are we doing in other places? And you have got to look at this on a local basis. This business has become a very localized basis. The national players like the UNE players, AT&T and MCI are on their way out, but the local marking folks are here. So we're going to have to look at this market by market as opposed to just taking broad overall trends, but hopefully that gives you a sense of where I think it's going. Yes, sir.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

LARRY BABBIO: Got you.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: First one is you seem very committed to the idea that copper is a bad technology in general and therefore fiber is the right solution everywhere. I was hoping you could elaborate a little bit on that, as opposed to sort of selecting markets where you have the best economics for fiber. The second question is if you could just elaborate a little bit on your -- the success-based approach versus more of a mass deployment as it applies to achieving some of the cost savings of fiber and running the business in that it is kind of difficult to get 50% operating expense savings if you are only connecting 30% of the customers to the fiber network.  

LARRY BABBIO: Mm-hmm. Okay. Thanks. Thanks for asking me to clarify that. I appreciate that question. First of all, I probably did say it -- I don't know if I said copper is bad, but, you know, if you want to take that interpretation back it's okay with me. But I don't know if I said copper is bad. What I did say, however, is that any combination of whether it's fiber with copper or co-ax with copper, it's not as powerful in the network as all fiber. There's no question from any standpoint that if you are all fiber to the premises -- look, let's just look at the facts if you are fiber to a node or fiber to the curb, what would you advertise as your speed? 20 megabits, 30 if you're agressive? 50 if you are a little bit loopy. So maybe you would say 20 or 30 megabits and that's for everything, incidentally. If you are fiber to the premises, today's OMT generates 30 megabits on the data line tomorrow's OMT is going to generate 100 megabits on the data line and incidentally, that's just the data line. So again, when all you folks are out their comparing your numbers and you hear other folks saying, well, we can get 20 megabits into the home and the fiber folks are advertising 30. Not fair, folks. That 20 needs to be shared between the data, the voice, and the video. Our fiber gets 30 for the data only and, you know, as much as you want for the video. And, in fact, as much as you want in this case equates to a much broader offering than any of the cable companies have out there. So on that basis, do you want to come to the conclusion that copper is bad? Then I would say, you know, so be it. But I still think that fiber, when I say everywhere, to the cub, is not sufficient, to the node is not sufficient. To the home is the way to go and you Ed to blanket the entire geography that we choose to serve at the time.  

The reason for that gets to your second question. First of all our strategy has been fairly simple. We go into a market we cover the whole area so that we can market out there, so that we don't have the issue of customers saying, well, you can get fiber on this street but not on that street. So we'll market to the whole area. We'll do that for a period of 12 to 18 months. Once that period is over, we then go in and say, now we're taking the copper out of service. And it's that second step, which will then take probably another 12 months or so maybe 18 months which now get us the operational savings that I talked about. You can only get the true operational savings if you're maintaining one network and I think that was your concern a second ago. That's not our plan, our plan is to market like hell, after we have put up the entire network, let that soak in for 18 months or so, and then put -- take the copper network out of service. I'm going to only be able to take one more question and then Tom's going to make me sit down and I'm going to take this gentleman right here because that's where the mic is and then I will talk to others of you after the session.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Okay. Great. Just a follow-up on that question, just -- make sure I'm correct. After the 18 month, you will go ahead and roll out the -- the -- or incur the variable costs of 700 to $800 per home to connect to each one of these homes in each of the markets that you are -- that you have -- that you have upgraded and then secondly, you know, you talk about the cost savings that you are going to see with fiber in the home, are there any other incremental expenses that you might incur? You talked a little bit about hiring some more people, at least in terms of the network rollout, but from a -- a system standpoint, or, you know, things like that, that might net out the savings a little bit lighter?  

LARRY BABBIO: No, I think the numbers that I gave you before, especially the people -- of course when you hire the people, they are multi capitalized some extent but they are rolled into these numbers. So I would not look at those people expenses as anything that's incremental to the numbers that I gave you. That's embedded in the cost of pass in the home and when I look at some of the systems I mentioned that we did roll out some new systems but all of that has been rolled into the business case and we are comfortable that the business case works based on some of the criteria that I talked about a minute ago. As a matter of fact, not only does it work, as we roll -- as we look out into the future, you know, it achieves the types of margins that we've achieved in this business historically and we're comfortable that's the best value platform of the future. So once again, I'd like to thank you all for being with me this morning, and I am now going to introduce Denny Strigl who is the President of our Wireless Business. Thank you all.  

DENNIS STRIGL, EXEC. VP, PRES. - DOMESTIC WIRELESS, VERIZON: Thanks very much, Larry. Good morning, everyone. This morning I would like to give you my views on the three subjects that you see on this slide, first I will spend a few minutes on our third quarter results to supplement and to underscore what Doreen talked about. Second, I will review the strong foundation that we've built over time, and which we believe is the spring-board for capturing future growth. And then third, I would like to talk about some of the initiatives that we have been pursuing, the next higher level of performance, at Verizon wireless. Let's look at third quarter performance. This slide is an overall picture of our performance last quarter. It is a picture of quality, profitable revenue, and customer growth, growth incidentally while maintaining disciplined cost controls. A few of the highlights that I would like to point out. EBITDA, the margin that we have had for the quarter is the highest in the industry and, in fact, it's the highest for the third consecutive quarter at more than 40%. While you see here a total churn number, churn in retail postpay segment, which comprises about 39 million customers was even lower at 1.29%. And we achieved these results while increasing cash flow from operations and covering our investment in the capital program resulting in increased precash flow generation.  

You often asked me if we can sustain these results. And my answer is, look at our performance over the last several years. We can continue that record, as long as we are able to do what got us to where we are today. And I believe that it takes a performance-based culture, and never being satisfied with the status quo. You may consider us a market leader and I hope you do, but internally, we are focused on running hard, and not being content with where we are. What those metrics don't tell you is that it was also a busy quarter for us in laying the foundation for future quarters. As promised, we began the coast-to-coast expansion of our EVDO network, and the accompanying broadband access service. And I will talk more on that in just a few minutes. We also opened new distribution doors, adding leading national electronics, and specialty retailers and we're buying spectrum for capacity growth in New York City, and in key western and Midwestern markets, like Denver, Salt Lake City, and Seattle. And both of the deals are on track to close next wave very soon in Qwest in the first quarter of next year. I said that we would sustain results by preserving a never satisfied mind-set. Actually, equal credit goes to the very strong foundation we built, the foundation of fundamentals of network -- network quality, that is, distribution strength, customer commitment, and the brand reputation. These fundamentals that you see on this slide are the platform for differentiating Verizon wireless with with customers and potential customers and it is our aim to widen that differentiation.  

The first fundamental is network quality. Which we take, I think, as you know, very seriously to the tune of more than $4 billion every year, since our inception, and more than $5 billion this year as we roll out EVDO. That's more than other carriers routinely spend, in our case, it's not mainly for new technology or expanding footprint. Most of our CapEx is spent on our existing footprint to increase capacity, and also to enhance reliability. As you know, we strongly use our test man adds while Dick Lynch out Chief Technical Officer is our top test man and he is constantly pushing the envelope to make our network even better. We do this to stand up to the routine busy hour workout we get from our over 42 million customers. Equally important, we deliver that same reliability in times of natural disaster, as we demonstrated here in New York, in the blackout a year ago, and in California wildfires, and the recent hurricanes. These charts show the results of our drive tests along key routes in the hours and days after the two hurricanes. They offer a snapshot of wireless customers' experiences in the most impacted areas in fact, because our network withstood so well, we were able to loan thousands of phones to federal, state and local emergency responders, and set up emergency wireless call in centers for local residents. This is the type of reputation and brand equity that you cannot gain from just advertising.  

Fundamental to our network reliability is vigilant disaster recovery planning. Over the last five years we have been aggressive in shoring up full-time and backup power, building network redundancies and storing fleets of portable cell sites in strategic areas around the country, all to give us the ability to handle ordinary and the extraordinary. We will continue to make reliability a priority in both our voice and data networks. This is part of how we differentiate our service from our competitors, and we believe that it creates sustained competitive advantages. From our network model, we know that quality and coverage are king. We apply that same quality and coverage strategy to our distribution model. Our direct distribution is strong, and getting stronger. As of September, we started to bring Circuit City into our direct distribution lineup, putting our own staff in operated stores into about 600 Circuit City outlets, and 600 will be completed by the holiday season. This will put our direct store distribution locations at just under 2,000 in number. We have a -- a B-to-B sales and support force of 2,600 people and they are assigned to our largest customers, about 1,800 are -- of the 2,600 are salespeople. In the enterprise market place, we're gaining share, because we -- because of the focus that we have had, and we've spent two years integrating and upgrading systems. The way to appeal to the large customer, of course, is to have integrated your systems. We are building a solid mix of indirects with Radio Shack continuing to perform well, and we just added Best Buy, of course, as you know, a leading consumer electronics chain. Look for us to continue to strategically change and add more distribution at the right price.  

Our criteria is to be where customers are, while preserving increasing efficiency of our overall distribution mix. We have the highest customer loyalty level in the industry. Yet in my mind, that isn't good enough. I believe that we can do better. Our goal is to further increase customer loyalty levels by keeping the customers and keeping them for a longer period of time. We know we attract and keep customers with our network performance, of course, but we also know that to keep customers over a longer period of time, we need to be easy to do business with, at every turn in our business. One way we have done that is by increasing the percentage of customer issues that get resolved the first time the customer calls us. Our lawyer free guarantee and our new every two program are cited by our customers as reasons for coming to us and staying with us. We also realize that beyond obvious day-to-day interaction, customer commitment must be built into every aspect of our business, from the store design to even public policy issues.  

Our stance in supporting local number portability, and opposing the planned wireless directory, were ultimately driven by putting the customer first. I realize some people think we supported LNP because we thought we'd be the biggest beneficiary but when we made that decision last year, we had just as much risk as any other carrier and we knew we would have to work harder than ever under an LNP microscope to win and keep customers. As we approached the first anniversary of LNP, Verizon wireless is still working harder, harder than we ever have to earn customers' loyalty and to further reduce our churn. For that reason, LNP is still working for us. With the higher number of port-ins than port outs. Our premium brand is the fourth fundamental of our foundation, and is really the sum of the reputation we have earned for the three fundamental attributes that I've just mentioned. It all starts with our network and customer service performance our relentless network testing and with never being satisfied, but we -- we also like to be known for always reaching that next higher level in all areas of our business so I don't want to leave you -- leave with you the impression that we're satisfied with where we are. We're constantly reaching for the higher -- the next higher level. There's always more to do, whether tweaking the process, or attempting to change the entire game.  

Our strong foundation is a jumping off point for all of the major initiatives here. First, you will see us accelerating the network, our network build, and customer take rates for our broadband data products, with an aggressive expansion of EVDO. Second, we'll use our unique data capability in terms of speed and coverage, that is, to help us grow in the B-to-B space. In the consumer space, we have to grow our share with both high value consumers and high growth youth and multicultural space. And look to us to continue to mine opportunities to increase our overall efficiencies. When it comes to accelerating data products and customer uptake, broadband -- broadband promises to do more than any wireless data service has up until now, save maybe SMS. That's because our broadband speed, when coupled with mobility, changes the whole game. We can offer not just a new service or application, whole new forms of content and delivery capabilities will be possible from the combination of improved delivery time, increased file size, rich graphics, improved functionality, like going from still pictures to streaming video. With EVDO, we're committing to typical user download speeds of 300 to 500 kilobits per second. Now, I will point out that those are raw speeds. With compression speeds, it can be significantly higher. Either way, it's a true broadband experience for our customers. In broadband, we intend to leverage our time to market window.  

Our EVDO expansion last month, is not just a fast start or early lead in the high-speed category. We had our early start last October. October of last year, in Washington D.C. and San Diego. This was a significant deployment of major markets and corridors. And these are not isolated hot spots, or islands, but significant pop coverage. One-third of our network or 75 million people are scheduled to have broadband access by the end of December. You won't have to cross the street to take a right, to go three blocks down to find a connection. It will be where you are. By the end of 2005, we'll have two-thirds of our network pops covered, in between now and then, we -- we'll add new EVDO markets. We'll continue to expand coverage in existing markets to flesh out our broadband footprint. Moreover, our EVDO advantage builds on the extensive 1x network and the capability between the two. We are 100% -- I think you know, 100% 1x throughout our network today. So we're excited about the reaction to broadband access, to date.  

We have more than 75,000 EVDO customers. I would like to point out that these are customers with an EVDO card, and on an EVDO price plan, at an $80 price point. While I think that we're very early in the process to be giving out numbers, I share them with you because they show the traction that we're gaining when we have just had EVDO service in only three markets. United Postal Service is one of the many enterprise customers moving the desktop to the field, with broadband access, they have begun to roll out our service using 3,400 PC cards in San Diego, Las Vegas, and Washington D.C., and in 1x National Access Networks as well. So we are not introducing technology just for the sake of introducing technology. We're satisfying real and increasing customer needs for high-speed mobility. Our business model proved itself in D.C. and San Diego over the course of the last year, and there is clear demand for wireless broadband speeds in small, medium, and large business communities. Looking at existing data services, messaging downloads pictures, remote access, demand, as you see in this chart is climbing steeply. We have 14.6 million unique billable data customers. That's more than one-third of our base. This number of data users has grown 55% year-over-year. And these customers spend an average of $7 a month on data. Data now contributes about 5% of our service revenue, a significant revenue stream given the size of our overall revenue base. Given the success, our time to market advantage with broadband is why we have committed to spend $1 billion on EVDO, by the end of next year.  

So what's the data opportunity outlook? In a relatively short time, data has become a -- a significant revenue stream for us. Half of revenue is text messaging, but I would also point out, of course, that the other half is not. It's remote access and downloads, and multimedia, all forms of communication that will grow richer and -- and with higher speeds, new devices and applications hold significant potential for us to grow the non-text half of our data revenue. While we have gained share in the overall business market, and are on -- and are out front, as this Yankee Group survey on this slide shows, we clearly have more to do, especially in the enterprise space. EVDO will help because it offers speed, mobility, productivity, and simplicity. All cable stakes for mobile professionals in both small and large businesses. In fact, we believe our broadband access service will drive penetration of voice service, drive penetration of voice service in B-to-B markets. New process improvements and account maintenance, customer service, self-service and stream line billing will also help. And as I said earlier, we're gaining B-to-B share because of our focus in the last two years to build our dedicated sales and support force, and to upgrade systems that serve these customers. I said we believe broadband access is our -- is our way of gaining B-to-B share as well.  

For business customers, speed is the powerful enabler. For example, the delivery time for a 500 kilobit file shrinks to 10 seconds from a minute and a half. Up until now, business users have had the medium speed with high mobility, or high speed with no mobility. With EVDO, they have the best of both. In short, business laptop users can now have an in-office experience, when they are outside of their office. We have dedicated customer service specialists to assist broadband access business customers and we offer the VZ Access Manager which is a new customizeable tool that simplifies wireless remote access. The -- the third area where we want to do more is in growing our consumer market share. We're concentrating on youth and multicultural segments. Two of the highest growth areas. We have made good progress in expanding our share in both the year-over-year, especially with our get it now games and ring tones in the youth market and international calling plans, roaming, and messaging in the Hispanic market. High value customers is yet another area for growth. One way to attract and keep high value customers is to develop innovative, unique, content and applications they want, and we're doing this with our get it now gaming, digital imaging and ring tones.  

Such content and aps are key differentiators and key to our success is the VZW developer community that we've created. We're working actually now with more than 1200 independent developers building content and unique applications for us and our customers. As in the business segment, EVDO will help us grow share of high value customers. We are following along in working with current and new brand name content providers and developing get it now applications with EVDO space, so more on us later -- more from us later in that regard. Applications like multi player gaming, music, video content, video messaging, and other multimedia applications is what you will see from us. For the consumer, broadband speeds will enable existing wireless data services, like imaging, info services downloads to be transformed into high resolution, multimedia content, video, music, and gaming. We're working with another broadband innovator. I think you know this. SK Telecom, who has been -- who has had, of course, significant success in this area to develop broadband multimedia services for the consumer market place. To date, we've concentrated our broadband efforts on business. Where the greatest initial demand exists, we believe, in the coming months, as consumer devices are ready for prime time, you will see us launch consumer broadband services also. And these EVDO handsets will be customized to present fun, visual content like video, music, and interactive games. And, again, so stay tuned.  

All of our handsets sold today are 1x and SMS capable and the majority are color, which stimulates gaming and, of course, other graphic-based content. We'll continue to expand our lineup of megapixel and video messaging models and also e-mail devices. Cross management is an area we're known for. It's critical to our ability to sustain the margins that you have seen us deliver. Doreen talked about the reducing our cash costs. Here are some specific examples: Direct telecom per minute decreased 14%, year over year, and 4% in this last quarter alone. Our distribution efficiency is up year-over-year by 7%, and quarter over quarter by 4%. You will see us continue to mine these areas and find new areas to mine further cost efficiencies. And on the final page, you have seen this model -- many of you have seen it many times before, the model hasn't changed. Going forward, our initiatives, as I have just outlined, coupled with our model of strong fundamentals and disciplined execution, we think positions Verizon wireless well for continued strong performance, continued momentum to take maximum advantage of the growth opportunities ahead. And now if you would like, I will take your questions. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: You talked about the ability to sustain margins being a very important priority for the Company. Just looking forward, what opportunity do you see for Verizon wireless to grow margins from this point and what would some of the guiding factors possibly be to growth in margins from here.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Well, first I'm not going to give you a forward-looking projections. As I indicated in my talk, I think we have plenty of opportunity to continue the kind of performance that you have seen from us in the past, but I will go back to a couple of comments that Doreen made. It's based upon the ability, which I know we have, to stick to the basics, work the fundamentals, and work our own game plan in the market place. I think we can continue to perform going forward. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: On the subject of EVDO, can you just contrast what you are doing with what the competitors are doing. Sprint has got their network, Nextel will choose something, Cingular. I think you have defined it really in terms of top speed but also time to market. Can you talk about the engineering a little bit more and just how complex it is to get that blanket coverage of 3 to 500k and your spectrum advantage lower down the speed and just give us a sense if we are reading Walt Mossberg an a year from now, how is Verizon's EVDO going to compare with some of the competitors?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Well, I'll take your last point first. I think you will see us compare very favorably, the 300 to 500 kilobits per second, of course, is without compression. We like to, if anything, err on the low side. We think that our first to market advantage will be sustainable for a long time to come. And frankly, at this point, we hear a lot from our competitors, but we see very little. We'll continue to watch this, and I think that by the time our -- some of our competitors are up and running, and into this market place, you know, in a strong way we will yet move on to our next generation. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Could you talk about maybe not forward projection but the ultimate size of the market. How many potential subscribers are out there for -- just on the business side that have laptops that could use a card like this. Have you done that analysis and maybe consumer market? And I assume you're going to count them as separate subscribers and separate ARPUs.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Well, let's be clear. If a customer has both a cell phone for voice use, and a laptop with an EVDO card, that's two subscribers for us; although it may be one customer. But that's the way -- that's the way we intend to count that. Relative to the size of the market place, frankly, we think it is very large. We have done our own sizing of this market place. I will leave it to you to put pen to pencil and see what -- on the basis of what a lot of people and consultants are saying the size of this market place. We're -- we are very aggressive in how we're approaching this market. I think we have got great opportunity and I will leave it at that.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Thanks.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Denny to what degree do you think Verizon wireless has been benefiting from the consolidation that we were looking forward to up until a couple of days ago and with Cingular and EWE. Going forward is there a near term opportunity to increase share growth adds as they work through some of their issues and then out there over the next year or two, how do you expect that to change? Do you expect them to improve their ability to compete and what does that mean for your share?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Well, of course you -- you speak of the largest player in the market place today. Cingular. I think that Cingular is somebody we should be watching closely and obviously we should be concerned about. I think they have a good opportunity ahead. But that's not the focus of our game. We'll continue to -- to play our own game out in the market place. I don't think that what has occurred in the way of consolidation over movements toward consolidation over the past couple of years has had much significance at all in our results. I think our results have come from the business model that you saw, from the integration that we have done over a course of four years in this business. We'll continue to play our own game here, and I don't see consolidation having much past impact or much impact going forward. But it's something we'll watch very closely. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION And, you know, you have been very gentlemanly about it but what type of opportunity -- is there an opportunity here for you? And then second, on churn, last quarter, you guys cautioned us about extrapolating your very good churn numbers from last quarter into the future. You matched that performance this quarter. Could you highlight the one thing that you think is left in the churn base that you can work on, to try to improve that number?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Okay. The -- in the fourth quarter, I think Cingular will do as Cingular has done in the past. I think that they will have a good fourth quarter. But I don't think that it will come as a result of their merger. I think that the results of their merger is fruit that they will benefit -- that will -- that they'll bear probably two, three, four years from now. I think that's a time when Cingular becomes an even stronger competitor than what they are today. We know the pains of getting through system integration. It is key, as I indicated in my talk to success on, particularly on the enterprise side, but also in the ability to start eliminating some customer call center, realizing some call center opportunities not only IT opportunities. What do we do in the fourth quarter? We're going to continue to do what we have done for many quarters in a row. We're going to play our own game plan. We're going to pay attention to what we do well. We're going to focus as Doreen said on the basics. But Cingular does, Cingular does, we wish them well.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Churn?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Churn? Okay. On the churn side, I think that there is still some opportunity for downside but I -- again, I'm not -- I'm not going to stand before you, particularly in the busiest quarter of the year when churn tends to tick up a little bit, and tell you that we can take this number down. The couple of things that we can do additionally on the churn front, are actually the things that we have done in the past. I think that we focus on our store staffing levels and models. I think particularly those of you who are in the New York City area, know that our stores are crowded. We need to work on floor plans and space utilization. We're doing. I think that this will help us in churn, but, again, I'm not going to forecast that we'll bring that number down, particularly in the fourth quarter. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION How much are you running up against capacity constraints right now and should we expect you to be interested in more spectrum, particularly as we look to the -- FCC auction in January.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Good question and you may have heard me say this before. We are always interested in getting more spectrum at the right price. So you will see us interested in whatever comes available in the market place. We'll look at everything long and hard. What are we -- where are we bumping up against? Yes, there are some cities where particularly with the rollout of EVDO that we require more spectrum. Fortunately the biggest places in the United States, our biggest markets, are places that we have been able to get spectrum, like New York City. Los Angeles is another place that we're in good shape. And we have met our spectrum needs for sometime out into the future but there are a couple of cities, and I won't name them, across the U.S. where we need another 10 megahertz of spectrum in order to roll EVDO out but they are not major markets.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Should we think of you as a -- as a logical buyer for the Oklahoma City, that's coming to market?  

DENNIS STRIGL: I'm not going to comment on that.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Okay.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: You talk about the revenue opportunity of EVDO. Is there a capital efficiency opportunity as well in terms of your ability to add capacity on EVDO -- you know using EVDO and using 3g technologies in general that you didn't have in 2g and 2.5?  

DENNIS STRIGL: First of all in terms of CapEx as a percent of revenue our intention is to continue to bring that number down. Doreen has put pressure on us, and Andy Halford, our CFO is in the audience here, I think both could tell you that we always look for ways to be more efficient, we work to bring that number down. I don't think that EVDO itself gives us an enhanced ability to bring the capital number down. I don't know, Andy, whether you -- Andy says maybe.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: And if I could just piggyback one more on that. You alluded to the fact that by the time Sprint catches up to you, you will be on to the next great thing. Is that an indication that perhaps we should not expect a tailing off on your capital spending over time, as you get done with it -- with the EVDO build, that maybe there is something else coming, even if it doesn't bump up your CapEx to revenue ratio?  

DENNIS STRIGL: You mentioned Sprint. I didn't. I think that there is opportunity for capital savings going forward. I'm not going to give you a projection now. I do see for at least the next year, spending at about the same level with our continued EVDO buildout. A year after that, there will be some footprint holes that fill but a lot of our capital spending, as I indicated in my remarks relates to our customer growth levels. It is my intention to do everything we can to continue customer growth and capital spending, obviously is predicated upon our customer growth. Yes, sir?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Thank you. Two questions. The first a point of clarification. Did you say that you would be reaching two-thirds of the country with -- or cover pops with EVDO by year-end '05 or the other two-thirds of the country?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Here's the deal, I'm not exactly sure what my words were. Let me give you exactly what the -- the projection is. We will have two-thirds of the total country covered by end of '05. Two-thirds covered not two-thirds additionally.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Okay. My second question has to do with back haul. As you roll out EVDO on a nationwide basis, and you start to see some real pickup in usage in markets like New York, you could see a ton of traffic on certain cell sites. I'm wondering if the network has been engineered to handle that additional traffic, which will be far in excess of voice traffic. I'm wondering if the back haul has been engineered for that and if not, what kind of impact that might have on margins.  

DENNIS STRIGL: Yes, sir. It has been. We -- we have very carefully, with EVDO planned on our back haul requirements, our network either has been or is in the process of being engineered to handle not only EVDO, but all of the additional voice traffic that we have been generating from more customers. Maybe to your point, we don't see any specific -- we don't see any further capital costs associated with back haul requirements than the projections you have already gotten from us. One more, please.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Denny, you indicated a number of important distribution deals that you'd announced. Do you see that as being a strategy you are likely to continue going forward?  

DENNIS STRIGL: Yes, and I tried to indicate in my remarks that we're looking just -- just as we look to -- to do things efficiently throughout the business, we look to do things efficiently in distribution. One of the great cost advantages we have had, many of you have heard me say this over the years is a focus on our direct distribution. But we also know that to continue to -- to grow the customer base, we need to find additional indirect distribution at the right price. This is why we have moved forward with Best Buy. We think Best Buy is an excellent partner. Certainly supplements us very well with another great partner that we have is Radio Shack. We'll continue to look for opportunities along those lines going forward. Okay. Thank you very much, everybody. And I will now reintroduce our CEO, Ivan Seidenberg.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Okay. Well, thank you. Doreen, Danny, Larry, thank you very much. Just to offer a couple of closing comments and then I will take a few questions if you would like to stand on anything or ask me something different. First, I would like, Denny recognized Andy Halford, Andy just stand up and wave. He's the CFO of Verizon wireless and will become the Finance Designate, soon to be the CFO of Vodofone. So Andy, congratulations to you, Andy, you have been a great CFO of Verizon wireless and thanks to Denny Strigl, he's getting a new job. There's no question about it. Okay. Hopefully what you saw here, you know, I think it's really important that you take away what you want to take away from this meeting but you also take away what we intended for you to take away. So -- [ LAUGHTER ] Let me just repeat a few things. Knowing that you all have to take a health break now, I know that.  

First of all, we had very strong operating performance in the third quarter but it's not operating performance that came out of the blue. It's been built over a long period of time, and I think as you heard from all of our officers here, a business is not built on view graphs. It's built on operations and performance. So I think as you think about the whole industry, what I would like you to take away from us is that we have a positive and exciting vision of where we want to go. We believe strongly that we want to be a pre-eminent customer-driven operation in this space. The reason why we spent capital, to move closer to the customer, and make sure that we have the relationships, sustainable long term. We want to be premium. We don't want to do every other commodity service that everyone does. We'll do some of that as part of our bundle but the issue for us is to extract value from the market place. We have been evolving our culture and you can see the results in that last couple of quarters have been not only the result of consistent investment and consistent process improvement, but also the result of focused compensation plans that are driving at the very things that our team has talked to you about today. We have great market position, I personally think we have without question across the board the most experienced and deep management team, and I also think that when you look at the rest of the industry -- I know you asked a lot of questions about the competitors, look, our view is when we go into the corner, we come out with the puck. It doesn't matter who else is in the corner. And I think that our team comes out of the corner with the puck and you can let the others decide what they need to do to sort of catch up or implement their own strategies going forward.  

The last thing is, you've heard this from all three of the previous speakers, we are never happy. So even today as we speak, the stock is down. Very irritating to me! [ LAUGHTER ] Maybe there are other reasons for it and I suspect they are all sending notes on your blueberries or Blackberrys whatever have you got there. So I think it's important for us to say that no matter how well we think we have done, we are not finished. This is not a game that ends. This is a journey that just continues to go forever. And I suspect you probably have. I took notes of all of your questions, and as you know me well enough, I have rated them. [ LAUGHTER ] So do you have any further questions? Yeah, sure. Sure.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Larry said that enterprise customers on integrated -- Larry stated that enterprise customers want integrated end-to-end systems and clearly integrated systems have OpEx savings and enable end-to-end provisioning. When you look at the buildout for VoIP, VOD and FTTP on the non-trans support, on the intelligent switch side, will you use a single vendor and if so, what's your time frame for the infrastructure upgrades and the key benchmarks. Thank you.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: So was there a reason you didn't ask Larry this question?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: I had my hand up.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Huh?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: I had my hand up but --  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Oh, I see. All right. I will just answer this from a general policy standpoint, generally in most markets we migrate to end tools and to situations. Maybe when we enter something we'll go to a single vendor first and we'll do that, but we'll go to a dual vendor because we think we get better price, we get better balance in it. I don't think we want to go to three or four vendors in every single market. All the rest of that stuff, the answer is yes. We're going to do all of that.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Well what what is your time frame? INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I'm sorry, eventual to --  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: I also asked what the benchmarks and time frames are for delivering VoIP and VOD and FTTP, particularly with Advanced Fiber saying in public they are having difficulty delivering against performance requirements.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Who is saying they are having difficulty?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Advanced Fiber.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. I don't think that's true. I think that along the way there's always an issue here or there, but overall, we're pleased with the work they are doing. Any of the issues we have with them are dealt with contractually, and so they don't meet their goals there are some penalties. Now I would be less than honest if I didn't say there weren't implementation issues, but overall I don't think there's any major issues. I know Paul and Larry are here. Any big issues? Just start-up issues. We are okay. The contract we just announced the other day will get some giddyup in them as well. Yes?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Thanks. Ivan, you are getting on the -- you are on the cusp of starting to offer video services in the next couple of -- call it next quarter or so in some of your first fiber markets. Can you talk about where you are with the content negotiations with the major conglomerates, the media conglomerates?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, we are part of the conglomerate. We purchased content part of the consortium. We feel comfortable that we get competitive price. As we scale, we'll get better priced. But we're very comfortable with the prices we'll pay for the initial rollout of video. Remember we don't have to break any ground here. If you think back several years when cable had the lock on all the content, or at least the distribution and then the relationships, you didn't have satellite and you didn't have all the other distribution capabilities. So I think we enter this from the standpoint that other than a couple of selected places where people own original content the vast majority of things we'll get and we'll get with competitive prices. I think a good way to think about that, Denny, -- if you listened to him carefully, he talked about the explosion of people who have come to us and said we want to put applications and content over your business. They're the same people, that will want to put content over the rest. So here's what I would like to leave you with, over the course of the next 12 months, you cannot ignore us. Period. We will get the content we need to put over our systems. Yes? You get three questions? Is there a reason?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: They are good ones.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes. The answer is no. [ LAUGHTER ]  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: When do you think we might hear or you might be able to communicate something on the rural access lines and secondly, Directory's seems to be a business that has a lot of opportunity also, BellSouth just announced something with Google today. Would that be something you might consider spinning out to a potentially separate company, like a -- I guess you're thinking about with some of the rural lines.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yes, well -- do you have any specific rural lines in mind?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: The more the better.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: The more the better. No. I guess I'm going to repeat what Larry said. We are really not looking at the issue as rural versus urban or metropolitan or suburban. We are looking at it as to rethinking this and trying to be creative as opposed to just doing what people think is rural and other. Let me just add on the access line question because there are probably some deaf guys in the room and ladies. When when we think about access lines, -- let's take Hawaii what we did in Hawaii is we had a situation where there was both urban and rural. We had a situation where our earnings there weren't as strong as we thought it should be. We found a buyer who can go in, and get support from the regulatory process, and change the dynamic and create a very viable business going forward and we are very careful to make sure anything we would -- we would separate in any form would be viable and would be strong and we would do that as well. So I think that's the nature. So the issue on the timing of that, I don't have a deadline. We're just working on it and it's a priority to me and when we get ready to do it, we'll kind do it. All right? So it's not that we're -- your other part of the question was?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Directory's.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Directory's. Yeah, right. Directory's here's the way we look at this... Directory's, has got the same kind of secular issues that Teleco does. It's got declining books. You know we have to operate in lots of big cities with big books. Lots of people like it but it's not growing as quickly, we have a big push into electronic, which we think we are leveraging pretty well. Spinouts and separation of directory, we always felt domestically there's such an entanglement with regulation that goes with that that you're not sure if what comes out the other end is the value you put into it. So for the time being it's a great cash flow business, they are controlling your expense and contributing to the business. I'm comfortable that we'll stick to that plan but we'll keep looking at every option, I mean, it's not something that we've closed our mind to. But I'm happy where we are with Director's. Yes.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Is it too radical of a notion to assume that five years out every access line that you have will either be over built with fiber, be spun out or sold, is that too radical of a vision of where you're headed? In other words will see any of this straight up copper line that you own five years out?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, look, if you want to take any question or any issue to the end game, was five years ago was it too radical to think that we would have 60% penetration in wireless. Was it too radical to think, five years ago we would see 70% penetration of PCs in the house and almost 55% penetration of broadband connection? Here's the issue. I think what we need to do is be a -- here's what I believe. I think our Company cannot be afraid of you, and not be afraid of the market, in terms of reaching for growth opportunities. Now, we have to be smart and we have to be accountable, but what we don't want to do is start out by limiting what our vision of the market could be. So here's what I think, you know, it's funny when someone asked -- there was some question about -- they asked Denny, I guess it was, what's the size of the market? I will never forget the answer that performance CEO of Coca-Cola, he now passed. They asked him what's the size of the Coke market? And he stopped and he hesitated and he said. So I guess it's really -- how many people in the world drink water?  

So here's my answer to that. I don't know that we're going to get to 100% of anything. But it sure is going to be more than anybody projected to be today. And I think what we need to do is what you heard Larry and Denny do is build the capability to win, and not be afraid to win. That's where we are. So, yeah, we're going to have a lot more stuff out there. Maybe it will happen in five years maybe three, maybe seven, but if you look at us today, as opposed to us three years ago, we're very different. And yeah, we'll be a lot more different five years out. No question. Yep? Yeah. Well, two, one, two, three. Start at the top. Hold the mic up. Just hold it --  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: All right. There you go. I'm good at these things. Just following up on -- just a little bit on thinking about the video and kind of the next evolution of the product set that Verizon is moving into. To what extent do you look at the interplay, the give and take, the feedback loop between yourselves and the number one competitor that is emerging on the wire line side which is the cable industry? Do you see that your move into video has the potential to provoke a more assertive response from cable into your wire line business? And how do you think about managing that -- that interplay between the wire line world and the cable world, and making sure that what this evolves into is a potential consumer duopoly for bundled services, as opposed to a intense competitive war?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I think that -- I guess as one of the oldest running people in the industry, let me answer that this way. I think it's almost personally it's nonsense to think that there's a point, counter point with these things because if we spend, they'll spend or if we don't do it, they won't do it and no one will do it. I think people run to the market. If we don't follow what our natural strengths are, we won't just lose to one competitor, we'll get chipped away at five or six or seven other competitors. So this issue about if we spend, it's going to prompt cable, I don't buy that. I think what we say is this, let's go back to what Larry said. Do we have the natural platform, and the skill set to compete? Now, what we're not doing is providing a me too product. You would have a lot of reason to criticize us if all we did was provide a me too product. We don't think we're doing that. We think we're providing a much higher bandwidth, higher interactive, capable video strategy, unlimited HDSL channels and you heard it from Larry on and on. On the wireless side, it's the same thing. If we don't EVDO, will somebody not do it? The answer is we don't care. The fact is the market is out there and we -- we would be silly not to take advantage of that market. So I think we're going to run as fast as we can, and be smart about it, but we're going to make sure that we fulfill a potential that we think we have in these platforms. I don't think Wal-Mart sits around and says gee, if I expand 50 more stores, I'm going to prompt somebody to worry about me. You see, I think that's for losers. Our view is we need to run, as fast as we know how to run and capture the value because once you capture it, it's real hard for someone else to take it from you. Yes?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Speed to market we saw on EVDO with your leadership position. How do you think about deployment of FIOS, a million homes this year, 2 million next year. What's the data point to say, let's do 4 million next year and let's do 6 million.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. That's a clever way of asking about '05, we'll talk to you about that in January. [ LAUGHTER ] Okay. I'm happy to answer a different question.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Okay. Vodofone. Andy this here. You talked at our last meeting about wanting to get your ownership stake in Verizon wireless up to a higher level. How's the relationship today and do you think you get that opportunity over the next--?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, let's come back to this. I think that the -- there was a lot of speculation that was created because of Vodofone's bid for EWE and so, you know the chatter so to speak, was raised on both sides of the aisle. So here's the way I would look at this -- and, you know, I will also probably answer a piece of this you didn't ask, but that's about the business itself. The decision to leave Verizon wireless partner -- partnership is Vodofone. We have nothing that we could do other than go over there and pay some extraordinary amount of money for them to leave, which they have indicated no interest in. So there's -- just forget that. That's not a good strategy. So it's their call. It's their call. In return for that they have been terrific partners in terms of not getting in Denny's way, sending great people to work here, we turn around and become their CFO designate, and we're very comfortable with Vodofone. You know they are, they love the wireless business, they're global in their operations, they ask good things, they support what we need to do so we have a good relationship with them. You know at the partnership level, you know, we think a little bit, would you like to own it, would I like to own it. It's irrelevant.  

So I think the EWE thing is behind them, they have now come to peace with they're in this partnership for the foreseeable future and we'll go forward. What we're going to now do, and Andy has got both hats on and he knows how we think about this. We spent five years running a business to make it a pre-eminent franchise, and distributing cash to the partners. As a result we have levered up the business. We think what we need to do is what we have agreed to do with Vodofone and now spend a little bit more time continuing here on the business for growth but using the cash to deliver the business and we're going to do that and Vodofone, they agree with that. So I think everything's fine and chatter that exists, really comes from sources outside of us. I think we're fine where we are, at some point if something changes believe me, he'll be the first to pick up the phone and call us and we'll be the first to pick up the phone. Just a couple more and we'll get out of here.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Just turning to the use of free cash flow going forward, I wonder if you could just reiterate for us your priorities as you think about debt reduction, reinvestment, capital redeployment into the business, both on the wire line the wireless side rather and broadband and then perhaps some talk about the dividend opportunities going forward.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, the answer to your questions is yes. Yes, yes, yes. We're going to look at all of that. We believe -- we want to redeploy the cash to reduce debt. We've been doing that. Unfortunately, every time we seem to chase this issue, the rating agencies throw more scare tactics into the industry, and then we find that -- that 1.6 debt to EBITDA 1.5 and so on and so forth we are pretty comfortable with the stability our business. We have excellent top line growth we have great revenue growth the last couple of quarters so we are getting to the point -- I will make it short. But sometime in '05, we have some decision points to make about what we might be able to do. So we'll do that sometime in '05. Yes.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: I guess I just have to make the only obligatory question on long distance M&A going down the road.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Next question. (LAUGHTER)  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: The use -- you have been very forthright about your skepticism of that as a potential near term acquisition but I was hoping you could update us on your thoughts there, and do you think the problem with having a long distance -- a major long distance carrier as an acquisition candidate for you, is difficult because of the sharp revenue declines, that seem endless at this point, or that the stocks -- their stocks are being held up by dividend yields or both?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, okay. This is an easy answer for me. I think in the old form, you know, the prior the UNE change form when they were all things to all people and they were focusing on that, I just could never see my way clear to think that there was anything there that would lead us to believe that combinations might make any sense. I think what we need to do now is the market has told them they need to change their business. The market has told them they need to focus and do some things. They have taken some time to do that. Do we have an interest in the enterprise state? Absolutely you heard that from Larry. Do we think we need to get there through an acquisition? I don't know. We're just going to monitor it. But nothing has changed in my mind in terms of -- there's no imminent thing that I think I could think of where they would all of a sudden catapult us to the next step but you have to let them focus on their business, get themselves a little stronger and, you know, develop some credibility along the lines they see and we'll see what happens in the industry. So I'm going to look see at it in a monitoring mode and we're happy with the business plan that we have put in place. Yes.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Back to DSL. The cable companies had a pretty good quarter in the third quarter, and BellSouth and SBC just came out with price reductions on DSL. Were you satisfied with your adds in the third quarter and how do you think about pricing long-term on that product and then another question --  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Did we answer this already?  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Well, longer term, I know that you are not making any pricing changes right now. But what's your view on pricing? Is it a lever.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. First of all, let me say the obvious. We can always do better but I am -- I am pleased with the results that we posted because we did what we said we would do, which is to beat that just about 100,000 a month number, which is really what the target we have been setting for the year. If Larry had come in and said I did 200,000, we wouldn't have sent him home I can tell you that, but I think they have done what they said. Now, the reason I'm pleased with it is against what our penetration is and how we're conditioning our lines we feel our penetration of DSL is improving. We feel comfortable with that. Now in terms of pricing, Doreen said it. I think we're happy with where we are. We will be smart. We have introduced some new bundles. We have introduced a couple of different ways of packaging it. So our view is to not destroy DSL as a stand alone but to try to make sure that we broaden the offering to customers, so we can extract some value for it as we continue to build. Will pricing be important here or there? I'm sure it will be. I don't think we want to lead the market on that and I don't think we want to do anything precipitous. But having said all of that, let me just see, I've got all my team here, is there anything you want to change? No. Okay. So we're okay. That's the answer. Last question. Yes? Go.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: Back in the analyst meeting, you indicated that the Voice over IP for residential, you would launch sort of a moderate quality in the second quarter or so and a full quality in the fourth quarter. Is that still your plan?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: It slipped a little bit, they just told me. Did it slip? Yeah, no, the -- Yes that's true,  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: And all the Voice over IP would take place sometime in the late fourth quarter. INAUDIBLE QUESTION  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: So we have the sort of non-quality of service version available today. It's not part of a bundle. I guess we're -- what we're looking at is sometime in the first half of next year is do a little --.  

TIM UNIDENTIFIED: INAUDIBLE QUESTION To provide that high quality service?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: That's a fair question. Are we -- the question was. Is -- we are we gaining this improperly because we are not -- we don't think the market's fair or is this just an internal operational issue?  

DENNIS STRIGL: No, I think the answer on this one is that the -- what we call VoiceWing, we think there is a market out. We want to be in the market with a product that is competitive to some of the VoIP players who use broadband to transmit the VoIP call today. So we think for some of our customers, they want it, and we want to make it available. Now for the other product that's a technology upgraded to the core part of the network and we're going to time that as we see both enterprise customers and the consumer customer, you know, think that, number one, they are willing to take that type of service, and number two, willing to pay for that type of service because these are different services. One is non QOS which is the one that's out there today, one is quality of service level and they are different services at different price points. But the second is probably a little more technology driven and combined with a little bit of market place.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: If I might, just -- just -- maybe I think I got this right, the other side of this is that the other offerings out there, they're important, but they aren't -- they aren't killers yet. So I think the other side of this is, I don't think there's any big issue with them, that would suggest they can scale real quick, and do all the things that they claim. So it doesn't mean we shouldn't get out there with ours as soon as we can, but I don't think we're missing the mark here. Okay? All right. Thank you very much. [ APPLAUSE ]  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. If you missed any portion of today's presentation, you may dial in on the digital replay, which will be available from October 28, 2004, through November 4, 2004. On 877-519-4471, or 973-341-3080 with pin number 5199106 pound. Again, those numbers are 877-519-4471 or 973-341-3080 with pin number 5199106. You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | malev : MALEV RT
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
nyc : New York City | usa : United States | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S. | usny : New York
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041111e0as000k8
  


 HD
 Q2  2004  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,200 words
   PD
27 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Matthew and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Verizon's second quarter conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question press the pound key. Thank you. Mr. Tom Bartlett you may begin your conference.  

TOM BARTLETT, SR. VICE PRESIDENT INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Good morning. Welcome to our second quarter 2004 earnings call. Thanks for joining us today.  

   TD
I'm Tom Bartlett, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. With me is in New York this morning is Doreen Toben, our Chief Financial Officer, who will review our quarterly results. Ivan Seidenberg, our Chief Executive Officer, will join her on the phone from Dallas.  

Before we get stared, let me make sure that you're aware that our earnings release, financial statements, the investor quarterly publication, and the presentation slides that we will be reviewing have been available on our Investor Relations Web site since 7:30 a.m. The Web site address is  www.Verizon.com/Investor.  

If you'd like to listen to a replay of this conference call at a later date, you can do so from our Web site, we're currently Web casting this call. A replay of this call will also be available by phone for 48 hours beginning at 11:00 a.m. today. The dial in number is 800-642-1687, and the conference ID number is 7564198.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement displayed on slide two of our presentation charts. This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties.  

For those statements we claim protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is also contained in our SEC filings which can also be accessed from our Web site.  

In addition, this presentation contains certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by these rules, we've provided reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in an Excel worksheet file which has been posted to our Web site, on the same Web page as our presentation slides.  

I also want to point out that we have restated our long distance lines back to the first quarter of 2003, in order to correct the database errors which we previously announced. You will find this information on the same Web page as our presentation slides.  

Before Doreen takes you through the quarter, I want to take you through the earnings reconciliation. We have a few puts and takes that offset each other so reported and adjusted earnings are both 64 cents.  

We had an after-tax charge of 19 million or 1 cent per share for pension settlements under SFAS No. 88. This charge is related to the employees who received lump sum pension distributions during the second quarter. We took an after-tax charge of 87 million or 3 cents per share, related to asset write-downs associated with our international long distance and data network.  

Offsetting these items was an after-tax gain of 124 million, or 4 cents per share, primarily related to the MCI bankruptcy settlement as we have reversed the losses that were established in 2002 when MCI entered bankruptcy. So again, the adjusted earnings per share were 64 cents this quarter.  

With that, let me now turn the call over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks, Tom. Good morning everyone.  

We are very pleased with our results this quarter and believe that we are generally on the mark for the first half of the year.  

Our revenue growth of 6% is the highest we've seen in several quarters. Verizon Wireless continues to lead the industry in profitable growth. And in Telecom, new growth initiatives like DSL and Enterprise Advance are making headway in offsetting revenue losses in our traditional voice business.  

In addition, we're seeing the benefits of our downsizing and efficiency initiatives in our solid margins and cash flows. And we have used our cash to further improve our balance sheet.  

More broadly, we continue to make progress toward our long-term goal of transforming our business around growth. In fact, that transformation is accelerating.  

Today, more than half of our revenues come from Wireless, LD, and Broadband, up from 46% a year ago. And these growth areas grew by over 20% over the past year, which represents an incremental 1.6 billion in revenues.  

We see the results of our allocation of capital to growth areas driving the growth and really paying off. The next chart gives you a closer look at our total consolidated revenue growth of 6%.  

Verizon Wireless was clearly the driver with a 25% growth in revenues. Telecom revenues were down 2.9% over last year and about flat sequentially.  

I've combined International and Information Services in the lower right-hand corner. Let me briefly give you the headlines for each.  

International revenues benefited from a 30 million favorable adjustment to carrier access revenues at Puerto Rico, as a result of agreements reached with carriers relating to billing issues and rate reductions. Information Services revenues were down 6% year-over-year.  

As you know, we sold some of our international directories in the third quarter last year which affects this year-over-year comparison. Adjusting for the sale, revenues would have been down only 2.6%.  

On the print side, we are seeing the continued effects from the economy as well as advertisers directing their spend to other media such as direct mail or local cable TV ads. On the electronic side, we are seeing good growth at SuperPages as revenues are up 15%.  

Our margin performance in the quarter was also strong at just over 22%, up both sequentially and year-over-year excluding pension and OPEB. Again, Verizon Wireless helped drive this performance. In Telecom, margins were down slightly down sequentially as we continued to hold the line on costs.  

Moving to slide eight, we continued to generate very strong cash flow, more than 4 billion so far in 2004, taking CFFO less Cap Ex. We are using our cash to strengthen our balance sheet, and as you've seen, invest in key areas such as Wireless Spectrum.  

In terms of CFFO, we are among the top five producers of all S&P companies, and we aim to maintain that position. At the end of the quarter, total debt stood at 41.9 billion, a reduction of 3.5 billion from year-end.  

I want to note that 425 million of this reduction is due to the reclassification of the debt associated with Verizon Hawaii, as it is now accounted for as a held for sale and the debt will be part of the transaction.  

We expect strong cash flows to continue for the rest of the year. However, I want to remind you that we anticipate that the Spectrum transactions will close by year-end which will require about 1.4 billion in cash.  

Also, as a reminder, we expect to receive the Hawaii sale proceeds in the first half of next year.  

Now let me take you through our segment highlights, starting with Verizon Wireless. This is our strongest quarter ever at Verizon Wireless, with just about every metric at record levels.  

Our execution continues to be superb as we take market share, thanks to our focus on network quality, distribution, and customer service. And our Wireless team continues to be relentless on raising the bar for the industry, quarter after quarter. It's part of their DNA.  

We often say that numbers speak for themselves, but let me offer a little color on our results. We had record ARPU and record net adds this quarter as our focus on our service and network quality continues to yield market share gains with high-value customers.  

Underlying this growth was solid performance on gross adds which were up sequentially and over last year with industry leading churn levels. All of this led to our most profitable quarter ever, as we continue to deliver the best of both worlds, growth and profitability.  

And as I just covered, resulting in very strong cash flow generation. These results reflect our ability to drive the scale economies of our business to the bottom line.  

Let's take a closer look now at some of our growth results.  

Verizon Wireless continues to add customers at an impressive pace, even as its base grows, a sign of an extremely healthy business. We also showed improvement on the key metrics that drive profitability.  

For example, as many of you know, ARPU has been a particular focus of Danny and his team. ARPU now stands at record levels, an increase to over $50. Our focus on acquiring and retaining high-value customers is a key driver of the ARPU increase over the past year.  

Between gross adds and migration of existing customers, we now have over 2.5 million more customers on $55 and above price plans compared to last year. Key to this strategy is our flagship America's Choice plan. 57% of our base are on one of these plans.  

In addition, prepaid gross adds were 9% of retail gross. Prepaid now makes up about 4% of our total customer base.  

Finally, unlike other carriers, I want to again note that we do not include in our service revenues taxes or any regulatory-related fees. These are included in other revenues.  

Moving to slide 11, along with our rapid growth, we have maintained our focus on acquiring and retaining a high-value customer base.  

Our churn reached record low levels of 1.45% and post-paid retail churn was 1.19%, our lowest level ever. This is the result of our worry-free guarantee that focuses on ensuring the customers are on the right price plan, as well as providing handset upgrades, that are economical for both Verizon Wireless and the customer.  

Now, the question I'm sure you're asking is whether our churn rate is sustainable at these levels. Our history has been that the second quarter is among one of the lower churn quarters, so it could trend upwards slightly throughout the remainder of the year.  

A key driver of the ARPU performance has been data, which now contributes a dollar more in ARPU than last year. Wireless data now represents a billion dollar annual revenue stream.  

This is due largely to the tremendous customer response to our expanding suite of consumer data products, including more than 560 Get-It-Now applications. More than 70% of our customers now have a 1x handset, up from 28% a year ago.  

We are also focused on the Enterprise data market. You may have seen our recent announcement of VZ Access, which provides a seamless data access experience for Enterprise customers.  

Let's move now to margins for the quarter, which were another record and up almost 600 basis points from last year. Contributing to the cash expense per customer performance on this chart, is our focus on our business model for customer acquisition and retention, which is based upon a successful direct distribution network supplemented by key, indirect distribution relationships.  

Our focused equipment strategy enables volume and pricing benefits, and when coupled with increased direct distribution, allows us to drive down our overall gross add and upgrade costs. In addition, our direct costs per customer continue to decline as we focus on leveraging our scale and reducing roaming rates and reducing Telecom costs through renegotiations.  

In the second half of this year, we will continue to focus on sustaining our strong execution momentum, while delivering on a number of new initiatives across our business including new product and efficiency initiatives, some of which you see highlighted on this chart. So stay tuned for a busy second half.  

Shifting now to the wireline side, let's start with some headlines. Our quarterly results provide some encouraging signs.  

Second quarter revenues were basically flat sequentially, up 8 million on a base of 9.6 billion. On a year-over-year basis, quarterly revenues were down 283 million, or 2.9%.  

We saw solid growth in the business market with continued positive trends in the sale of data products. On the residential side we saw continued growth in packages and incremental revenue growth coming from the sales of DSL and long distance.  

We continue to capture the cost savings resulting from the voluntary retirement program at the end of last year. This has allowed to us sustain our operating margins and continue to generate strong cash flows.  

Operating income margins, excluding the effects of pensions and OPEB, were only slightly down sequentially from 17.7 to 17.1%. This equates to a 56 million decrease on a quarterly operating income base of 1.7 billion.  

Cash flow from operations totaled 3.2 billion in the quarter. You've heard me say this many times, sustaining margins and keeping cash flow steady are very high on my list of imperatives.  

Let's take a more detailed look at revenues by line of business, starting with consumer.  

Consumer revenues held steady at the 3.9 billion level, down only 38 million, or 1% sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, second quarter revenues were down 73 million, or 1.9%, an improvement over the 2.2% decline in the first quarter.  

Revenues from long distance and DSL, along with popularity of our Verizon Freedom packages, are increasingly offsetting the challenges posed by technology substitution and competition.  

We saw very solid increases in average monthly revenue per household, on both a sequential and year-over-year basis. Second quarter averages exceeded $48 per month, up nearly 50 cents from first quarter, and up almost $3 or about 6% from year-ago levels.  

In business, revenues of 2.9 billion grew 87 million, or 3% sequentially, and are essentially flat with year-ago revenues. Higher data revenues including both transport and CPE helped drive the improved performance.  

Wholesale revenues of 2.2 billion were basically flat sequentially, and down 49 million or 2.2% year-over-year. Special access revenues increased, and we are encouraged by some positive demand trends for higher bandwidth circuits like DS-1s and DS-3s.  

Finally, second quarter revenues in the all other category were 601 million, down 49 million, or 7.5% sequentially. On a year-over-year basis, the decline in this category is 163 million, or 21%.  

One of the reasons for the decline is the absence of 36 million in revenues from BB&T, which we sold in March of '04. Obviously, we will continue to see this effect in the next two quarters.  

In addition, we continue to see declining directory assistance revenues and decreased usage of pay phones.  

That's an overview of the four lines of business categories within wireline. Now let's take a closer look at some of the volume drivers, starting with access lines.  

Our focus is on increasing revenue per customer through greater penetration of our growth products, to help us mitigate the effects of access line losses. Total switch access lines declined 4.2% to 54.4 million. Residential lines are down 4.4% versus last year.  

On a sequential basis, we lost an additional 519,000 residential lines during the second quarter. This is a bit more than prior quarters, reflecting expected seasonality having to do with college disconnects and snow birds coming back to their homes in the North for the summer from places like Florida.  

You can see the impact of this seasonality on the chart which depicts sequential line losses between first and second quarters for both this year and last. This seasonality is in addition to the continued normal trend of line losses we have been experiencing.  

Business lines are down 3.8%, compared with year-ago levels. On a sequential basis, we lost an additional 155,000 lines which is a steady, albeit modest improvement over the previous quarters.  

On the Uni platform front, net additional Uni's in the quarter were 425,000, our lowest level in a number of quarters. We are encouraged that the improvement during the quarter is more or less across the board, but most notably, in our larger and more competitive states and the ones which have had Uni-P competition the longest.  

While we [fill] away an FCC interim order, we now have some hope that there will be some positive corrective actions taken on the unbundling issue, and the error of ongoing price reductions in this area may have come to an end.  

Bundling continues to be a key strategy in both retaining customers and growing revenue per household. 50% of our retail customers have two or more services from us. This percentage has increased from 47% in first quarter and 37% a year ago.  

In long distance, we continue to gain share, adding another 632,000 lines during the second quarter. Taking into account the retroactive base adjustment that we announced earlier this month, and that Tom referenced at the beginning of this call, we now have 16.8 million LD lines in service.  

Total long distance revenues were more than 1 billion in the quarter, representing nearly 15% growth versus last year.  

In DSL, we continue to make steady progress adding 280,000 lines in the quarter, and 625,000 in the first half of the year. This puts us on track where we expected to be at an average of about 100,000 net adds per month.  

In the second quarter, we usually see a drop-off in net adds due to seasonal churn for the same reasons I mentioned a few minutes ago in our access line metrics.  

DSL revenues in the quarter were about 300 million, an increase of more than 35% versus the same quarter a year ago.  

Let's spend a minute or so on data services.  

We posted a 5.7% increase in data revenues this quarter. The driver here is higher data transport revenues, which include both retail and wholesale services in the business market, and DSL in the consumer and small business markets. In particular, we are beginning to see a pickup in demand for transport services in business.  

DS-1 volumes have grown more than 7% in the past year, principally wholesale. And DS-3 volumes have increased nearly 5% from a year ago, good signs as we look ahead at growth prospects in the business market.  

We continue to be pleased with the progress of our Enterprise Advance initiative, where we are winning new business and improving our network and systems capabilities. We are having success with metro ethernet and optical services as well as national frame relay and ATM services.  

We continue to outperform the market in these critical product categories, especially within our footprint, where we have distinct cost advantages. We have done a credible job gaining share with some large Enterprise customers and expect to improve our competitive position as we enhance our data service offerings.  

We now have national IP, VPN, and ethernet services, which enhance our ability to offer facilities-based solutions, and we plan to introduce Enterprise VoIP during the fourth quarter this year. As a company, we continue to see the benefits of doing joint marketing with Verizon Wireless, especially in the area of remote access for mobile professionals.  

Switching gears to the cost side of the equation, our results reflect our commitment to operational excellence and demonstrate once again our ability to manage our business efficiently.  

In wireline, our work force levels are down about 14,000, or 9% since this time last year, due to the voluntary retirement program. Wireline headcount increased by roughly 2,000 people during the second quarter, as we selectively added to our sales and operational force in certain key areas.  

Cash expenses have remained relatively flat, compared with the second quarter last year, and the first quarter of this year. The year-over-year change includes the favorable effect of the reduced force worth about 200 million.  

These salary and wage savings were used to fund increases in sales, marketing, and cost of goods in the growth areas of the wireline segment, DSL, LD, Enterprise, and data. We are confident in our ability to sustain operating margins as we transform the mix of our business.  

I want to provide a quick update on a few of the significant product initiatives that we see hitting the market in the second half of the year.  

Last Monday we announced the pricing of our FTTP broadband offerings which we are calling Fios.  

We also named two new locations in addition to the Dallas Fort Worth area, namely Tampa Florida and Huntington Beach, California. Collectively, these three locations represent about 300,000 of the 1 million homes we intend to pass with fiber this year. More locations will be announced in the coming months.  

We also announced VoiceWing, our voice over IP broadband phone service last Thursday. VoiceWing will allow customers to make unlimited local and long distance phone calls within the United States and certain territories and to benefit from low, permanent international calling rates. This service also allows customers a wide range of enhanced features that make call management simple and convenient.  

You can also look for iobi to become commercially available later this year.  

In the area of cost management, we will continue to drive more productivity savings in areas such as customer self-service, internal process automation, wholesale provisioning, and real estate and call center consolidations. The second half of shaping up to be a very busy and active time, and we look forward to tracking progress in these exciting new areas of growth.  

Shifting to capital, we continue to allocate more capital to growth areas and new technologies such as Enterprise Advance, VoIP, EVDO, and FTTP. As you see on this chart, more than half of the capital that we've invested this year went to support growth businesses.  

I want to note that due to the strong growth at Verizon Wireless, we see Cap Ex coming in at around 5.5 billion, as we continue to invest in a network quality which is the foundation of our success.  

As I said at the outset, the first half of 2004 went as planned, and we are very pleased with the operational performance of the business. We will continue to focus on preparing for increased competition and transforming the revenue profile of the company.  

We see consistent margin performance going forward. We do not believe that buying market share in challenged industry segments is the way to create value over time.  

Looking beyond 2004, we are well positioned to take advantage of an improving industry sector and overall improvement in Fortune 100 companies. The growth initiatives that I just outlined will build further momentum for us in 2005.  

Thanks. And now let's get to the questions.  

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to remind everyone, if you would like to ask a question, press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. Again that's star then the number one if you have a question. And we'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q& A roster. And our first question is from Blake Bath from Lehman Brothers.  

BLAKE BATH, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. Good morning. I wanted to understand a little better some of the factors that are going to shape the second half results. If you look at the First Call consensus, it's for earnings to be declining relative to what you just posted. Maybe you could talk a little bit about margins excluding pension and OPEB. They look like they're up a couple hundred basis points since year-end. Is there anything in the second half activities, I guess particularly within Wireless, that would lead to margin degradation or did I hear you correctly that it sounds like you believe wireline margins will be flat/sustained, and Wireless margins should continue to be robust? Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. On just the logistics side, I'm here in New York. Ivan's actually with us in Texas. So I'm going to take this question, and we'll probably let Ivan hand off on who's going to answer the questions going forward. Hey, Blake, how are you doing?  

BLAKE BATH: Good, thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think I'll take your question in piece parts, maybe. If I start on revenue side of the equation, I would obviously say we're really pleased with the revenue results that we got for the quarter. We think that we had really high-quality revenue, I mean Verizon Wireless was tremendous.  

We think that we've been spending the right amount of money in the right places, you know, it makes sense and therefore, you know, it's really paying off for us. We've been doing good work, I think, in getting costs out of the business, which you see in the results of the cash flow. So if I look at, and we do see encouraging signs.  

I think about on the revenue side first, we gave you guidance of low single digits, where it's 5% for the first half of the year. I think I would tell you that we think we can do at least 4% in the second half of the year.  

If I move to margins, I've been sort of vigilant on margins and making sure that we hold the margins constant. I've been really focused on it. I continue to maintain that we will have sustained margins, including the teleco, there's always a little bit up or down but we really have consistent margins across the board.  

And then finally, I guess on earnings, we haven't given specific guidance as you know on earnings. I guess what I would tell you is we did $1.22 in the first half of the year and so I would tell you that you would expect us to do a little better than that at least in the second half.  

BLAKE BATH: Thank you.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay?  

BLAKE BATH: Yeah, thanks.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Ivan, you want to take the next question? Or ask for it?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Depends what it is. We'll take the next question.  

OPERATOR: The next question is from John Hodulik from UBS.  

JOHN HODULIK, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Okay. Thanks. Good morning, guys. Just a couple of quick questions. First on the VoiceWing product, could you talk a little bit about your plans to promote that product and sort of how it fits into the overall strategy in the residential market? And then secondly, on some of the recent Uni-P changes that we've seen from a regulatory front, how do you expect that to play out over time? Are you seeing any less pressure from Uni-P line losses in the quarter, or we can talk about what we've seen just in the last couple of months, and how do you expect the two of these forces to interact in terms of margin throughout the rest of the year? Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Doreen, you did good on the first one, do this one.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. I'll start on the VoiceWing one. I think on the VoiceWing one I would tell you is, we are going to use that in a couple of different ways. It's certainly, it's a win-back strategy for us. We would go after it as far as cable modem. You will see it advertised on our Web site as well.  

You'll, so you will be able to get it I think as we announced in like 38 states. So that will be the approach that we're taking on the VoiceWing. I don't expect it to have any impact on the margin of the teleco at all.  

And on the Uni-P, I guess the Uni-P what I would tell you is that, you know, we've heard everything and the folks have said how quickly they can effectuate the results in '04 is really yet to be determined. There is a lot of competition out there other than AT&T. We have to wait until we see the order. You know, we hear lots of rumors like everybody else, but until we actually have it in our hands, we really won't know. And so until I see that, I don't think it's appropriate to really comment on what I think will happen to the revenues or net income.  

JOHN HODULIK: Okay. Thanks, Doreen.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Next question.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Frank Governali with Goldman Sachs.  

FRANK GOVERNALI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning. Ivan, I'll give you a chance to answer a question if you want.  

On broadband, can you give an update on your thinking in terms of broadband deployment? I guess specifically, when we look at the speed requirements for your residential customers on a going forward basis, clearly needs, you clearly need obviously, to continue your path in terms of delivering higher speeds. But the question really is, when you look at the vast majority of the customers you've got to address, hopefully you'll be able to address 70 to 80% of your customers with higher speeds than you have today, would you do that with fiber or would you expect that beyond the top 20 or 30% of your customers, that we'd have more of a hybrid solution, perhaps fiber to the neighborhood type of solution that others are using?  

And the second question is on Wireless. Given how extraordinary churn and margins are and growth is in terms of subscribers, on a going forward basis should we be focusing on ARPU as a primary driver to improve results?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Let me do the second question first. I think that you look at the, remember, the Wireless results for the quarter is just one more quarter in the string of about seven consecutive quarters where each time around our Wireless team continues to move forward. I think what you should look at in the Wireless business is ARPU will continue to get stronger but cash flow, and I think cash flow margin, are something that you should look at in that business as well, I think.  

I believe if you look at our hand this quarter, you would see that every metric improved and I think that we're also investing for new platforms in the future. So I think the mark of this business is industry leading growth but also industry leading profitability and I think cash flow would just be every bit as important as the metric of ARPU. Doreen, would you agree with that?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Absolutely. I mean the revenue number, the cash flow margin, which generates the cash is equally important, Frank, as the ARPU.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: The Wireless story is a total business metric story. It's not one metric. And I think that --  

FRANK GOVERNALI: I guess what I'm thinking about, not in terms of measuring success, but rather driving success, it seems that if you can continue to boost ARPU, get business customers, higher ARPU counts, plus data, which are higher margin in general, you'll get to the higher margins, it's really an ARPU issue.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, I agree with that, but remember, we have industry leading cost structure also. Listen, it's up to you to decide what you look at, but we look at all those things and we do them with equal vervor, I think. And so I think it's hard to, there's no one key to that. I think the Wireless team has got the distribution, the network, they have their ARPU focus and they have their cost structure focus and we're looking for them to sustain those fundamentals, and they will.  

Now, if you look at your fiber question, I think, I don't know if it was a question or a hypothesis, so let me see if I could offer you my own view of what we see in this.  

I think that the way we see it is that first of all, we're very pleased, I'm down here in Texas today. Whenever we have a quarterly earnings, I usually show up somewhere in the country and work with our employees.  

We chose Dallas today because we're going to spend most of the time after the call at Keller, which is where we're rolling out our fiber to the premise. Our goal is to make Keller, Texas as famous as Cape Canaveral, I think, when we finish this fiber to the premise project.  

But here's our view of this. It's pretty simple. Our early indications here are that everything is working out, at least strategically, the way we thought. That we're going to get great cost savings and more importantly, a great customer experience with fiber to the premise. So there is no question that the architecture will support just about unlimited data applications and that goes to your question about what do we see most of our customers requiring in terms of data.  

Now, if you look at the telephony customer, the telecom customer in terms of data, the estimates of needing 10 to 20 megabits on average, is probably not all that wrong. Frank, you said it would be maybe the top 20 to 30% of customers. We think it might be higher than that because penetration levels of people online are growing and application levels are getting more pervasive. So our view is that to the extent that we have data applications that range anywhere from 5 to 25 or 30 megabits are possible in the system.  

Where we think the fiber to the premise architecture really works, Fios makes a difference, is if you look at the capacity requirements in a household, beyond telephony, you're looking at capacity that could exceed 50 megabits because as HDTV rolls out, and people have multiple HDTV channels, our view, Frank, is that, that an architecture in which the customer has to stitch together multiple technologies to provide the overall customer experience, is one that might work but it doesn't create what we think is the compelling case for us to expand our addressable market and really make a difference to the customer going forward.  

So without all of the details that I know all of you want, I think strategically the way we think about our fiber project is we look at this as a, say for example, a three to four or five-year project in which we concentrate on a significant portion of the lines that we serve, you know, somewhere between, if you look at the current business, somewhere between 50 and 70%, for example, of all the lines we serve today would be candidates for this kind of an architecture. We think about rolling it out, getting significant cost savings, improving the customer experience and actually having a breakthrough strategy that gives us a chance to grow the telecom group.  

I believe that DSL and all of the successor technologies to DSL are very positive and very good, they will probably do no better than offset most of the voice loss long-term, give you some capability in video, but not the full capability that we look at.  

So Frank, I hope that gives you at least a qualitative view of what we're thinking about. What I would say is that we do owe most of our investors, all of our investors, more as would you say visibility into this.  

Tom and Doreen have suggested and we're thinking about a more in-face analyst investor meeting somewhere in the fall so we can provide more insight as to our learnings and our plans on this project as we go out into next year in '06 and then we can provide the kind of clarity that people are looking for going forward. But as of the second quarter, we feel very comfortable as to where we are in the stage of this activity.  

FRANK GOVERNALI: Terrific. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley.  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. Good morning. In terms of shifting your business mix more towards the growth areas, can you just update us on the sale of the New York state access lines and also any potential for doing something with Omnitel and potentially swapping for an increased stake in Verizon Wireless? And then finally, I don't think you mentioned anything about the DBS, the DirecTV bundles, how you're getting on with those. Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Simon, you get two out of four, but not all four, though. Okay. Let's see if we can get them all here reasonably well. Let's do the New York state lines.  

I think that everybody knows we have an activity going on right now. We have several parties that have begun to mobilize and ask questions and show interest, so what I can tell you about that is it's in progress. And what is that all about? It's all about changing the business mix and to give us less exposure to the environments or the areas that we have the most negative financial performance, and that's obviously our difficult environment in New York.  

So Simon, we'll continue that project and as you know, these things take their due course, completed the process in Hawaii and we're in the middle of the process now in New York. I think with respect to I guess you asked about Wireless and Omnitel. Is that the question?  

SIMON FLANNERY: That's right.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Maybe this is just an opportunity to provide maybe a little further high-level guidance about the whole Verizon Wireless strategic partnership with Vodafone as well as Omnitel because I know that this is a subject that not only our investors are concerned with and ask questions about, but it came up on the Vodafone call yesterday as well in their earnings. Here's the way we see this.  

We think, as I say at every call, that the partnership agreement we have with Vodafone is very functional in that it gives Denny Streigle and his entire team autonomy and control to run the business and produce great results in which they've done. So I think Vodafone would be like we, are very pleased with that result.  

The strategic partnership was created around the premise that the companies will put their assets together, meaning AirTouch, Bell Atlantic, GTE assets to create Verizon Wireless and maximize the cash flow to the partners in the early years, which we've done. So we cover the tax payments and we pay dividends to the parties, and we have done that now for the first three years of the partnership.  

Beginning next year, the partnership agreement allowed for the Verizon Wireless to retain the cash and to delever the business and use the cash for additional growth as it may be needed, and, for example, we just went out and bought additional Spectrum for both the New York market as well as in the Midwest and the Northwest areas. And so our view is that we will now use the cash within Verizon Wireless to do two things: To continue to sustain the growth of Verizon Wireless, as well as to begin to delever the business and to improve the balance sheet within Verizon Wireless.  

Should Vodafone have a need for the extraction of cash, it has the puts. If the puts is something that doesn't work for them then they will have to come to us and they have to ask us the question, and as I've said many times, we would be willing to entertain reasonable discussions for further exit of that.  

But absent their need for cash, which obviously maybe not be the case they have right now, the view would be is that we will delever the business and use the cash within Verizon Wireless for prudent purposes.  

And that leaves us with Omnitel. Our view of Omnitel is that it's a terrific asset. Like Vodafone in the U.S., we've been a minority partner there, and we participated in a way that's always helped the management get the job done and share information and be good partners.  

Our view is that at some point in the future, we would be willing to reduce our exposure in Omnitel, but only at the same point in time when our exposure, their exposure would be reduced in Verizon Wireless. So that I agree completely that from a strategic perspective it would make sense for Vodafone to own more of if not all of Omnitel, but it makes equal strategic sense for us to own more of, if not all of, Verizon Wireless. So I think that is kind of, Simon, the strategic framework around which we discuss these things.  

For what it's worth, we meet all the time. We actually after Verizon Wireless board meeting this week and so we will continue these discussions and so this is much more of a strategic issue than it is an operating issue. I think Verizon Wireless has proven that it's sort of immune to the partnership discussions and it just continues to do an outstanding job for the customer here.  

I think you had one more question. What was the other one?  

SIMON FLANNERY: On satellite.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Why don't I give that to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. I think what I'd say is, first of all we view satellite, the satellite bundle, as sort of one of several products that we have in our bundles, so we see this as customer convenience but not necessarily a core offering. Although I will tell you, we do make money on it because it's on a resell basis, so it's profitable for us.  

Longer term, our focus is really putting the video over Fios. So I'm not going to give you a number other than to tell you we're on plan. We're satisfied with where the number is, they're on objective. Bur I'm not going to actually release a number.  

SIMON FLANNERY: Okay.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Tom, we're okay?  

TOM BARTLETT: Yep.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, operator, another question.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is from Michael Rollins with Smith Barney.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thanks. Good morning. Ivan, I was wondering if you could talk about the bundle between wireline and Wireless, and even above and beyond maybe some of the bundling trends between those two segments. How much of the Wireless business is being affected by wireline, whether it's better sales, better costs, better overall retention in the wireline segment? I'm just trying to get a feel for how these two businesses are helping each other today and if there are certain quantifications that you have for that?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I think we have, you know, Doreen can jump in here, but I think, let's look at it from a logical standpoint. And also, let's make sure that we recognize what we can do today is different than what we be able to do in the future. So if we look at, as what we would call the bundle today, certainly on the business side, our respective organizations here, both in the Wireless and in the wireline side, are working very closely together with customers to create integrated solutions to what customers are asking for.  

So they want good networks with Enterprise Advance services, they want the ability to be mobile, so they can take their blackberries or their laptops and they hook you in any common protocol, common systems, and a place to call, and get all their things taken care of. So I think this is an evolving area.  

So in that case, the word bundled may do a disservice to the fact that we're trying to create a more seamless customer experience rather than just bundling a bunch of disparate products together and giving the customer a bottom of the bill discount. So I think we will get better at that and we will continue to work at it and figure out ways of productizing ways to give the customer the advantage of the networks that we run and the services that we provide.  

Now, when you go to the consumer space, you know the answer to this, there's things like single bill, there's things like bottom of the bill discount, there's things like giving the customer access to the products of each side. I happen to think that this is an early version of what in the future will be more seamless integration of products and services. And whether it comes through the handsets or it comes through being able to dial up on a Web site, it's not clear exactly how that will happen, but I think in the future we'll see more creativity there.  

Now, in the short-term, there's also hard opportunities for the sharing of traffic between the two, so there's bundling in the sense of the customer sees it and there's also bundling in the sense that we as a business are taking advantage of the scale economies that exist in both Wireless and wireline to do that. So I'm not so sure how much more I can say on this but I know this, that to the extent that we have these capabilities, we're able to learn and grow our way through it and get enormous leverage for the shareholder here in this, and that my expectation is that over two, three, five, seven-year time period, it's just a core confidence that we'll get better and better.  

Now, we also have things like regulation, in the middle of this, so we have to be careful that we are mindful how these things play themselves out and not mix things in a way that creates loss of value, but these things to be to be transit, and we'll sort of work our way through it. I hope that helps a little bit.  

Is there anything Doreen you would add?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, I think you said it, but I would just emphasize that we've seen some real success, and if you want to call it enterprise bundling, where these two companies are working together because exactly what you said, which is the customer wants one experience, and we're actually working towards some integrated product which will be coming out in the second half of the year, which we think will be successful. So we've had some real success in that area and continue to plan to push on that.  

MICHAEL ROLLINS: Great. Thank you.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Another question.  

OPERATOR: Your next question is from Lara Warner with of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

LARA WARNER, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks, good morning. Doreen, could you give us some sense of how much of the 250 million of Enterprise revenue you've recognized already? And maybe for Ivan, a question. I know you talk about this on every call but obviously the long distance business has been in the news in the last quarter. How do you feel one quarter later about Verizon's opportunity in Enterprise, does the pricing pressure concern you, and have you changed your view at all in terms of Verizon's ability to continue to take market share versus the need to somehow buy assets?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, Doreen, I can't wait to hear how much you've booked.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Do you really think I'm going to tell them? [ LAUGHTER ]  

LARA WARNER: A lot? A little?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I'm not going to disclose the number. I will tell you I'm on track for 250 though, so I feel good about that. And it will, it's more back-end loaded because we have the recurring piece that started last year so we see that building with the contracts, and I'll give you, maybe I'll give it to you next quarter but I'm not going to give to the you now, just to tell you I'm on track for the number.  

LARA WARNER: Okay. Thanks.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: How come you get off so easy? [ LAUGHTER ] The other half of the question is, I think Doreen may have said this in her remarks, I'm not sure, but we did close 650 sales, I think, during the quarter. Is that number right, Doreen?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I read it someplace.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes, yes, yes.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: So, Laurel, I think what we feel comfortable with is each month that goes by, our pipeline, our inventory of customer sales are growing. And remember in this space, we're approaching this not as trying to displace the number one or number two carrier in the space, but to leverage off our existing network and build up into these accounts, and in the very large accounts we are the alternative supplier or we actually can provide some of the data storage capabilities, not actually be the prime contractor in every account, but so we do feel that our scale economies for our company give us a great opportunity to continue to participate in this market.  

I also think that with all of the events surrounding the IXCs in the last month or so, that the positive thing in all of that is, I believe that the market has given them a, to the extent that they are trying to enter markets like local, in which they have no natural base, the investor has kind of run out of patience with that which will send them back into doing better things in the places where they're strong.  

So I happen to think that in the longer term that's going to be a good thing and it will be a good thing for us simply because, for example, the big three begin to focus on each other, that will give us a lot of room to focus on those customer accounts that we think we can make a difference and offer with the products that we're providing.  

So nothing has changed at all, in our view, as to where we could make a difference. We still have what I would consider to be, modest ambitions in this regard but ones that are grounded in good metrics and good opportunity for contribution to value creation.  

LARA WARNER: Great. Thank you.  

TOM BARTLETT: Operator, let's take one more question.  

OPERATOR: Your next question, then, is from David Barden with Banc of America.  

DAVID BARDEN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Thanks, guys. Appreciate that. Just two questions perhaps. One is, I know we've been, everyone's been very leery of trying to suggest that maybe the job growth that we've seen year-to-date might start having a beneficial impact on the business side of the equation but it looks like you guys are starting to see some of that come through and I was wondering if you guys could just comment on, I know CPU was a contributor here but whether you see continued strength, economically driven strength, maybe propelling a better performance in data and other related services into the back half of the year.  

And then maybe just second, Ivan on your comments that the intention is to keep margins within a tight band or costs on the tight band, to wring out a lot of initiatives in the back half of the year, iobi, Fios, the VoiceWing product, can you talk a little bit about how the marketing and support of those products will factor into margin outlook into the back half of the year? Thanks a lot.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, Doreen, if you don't mind, do the job growth question since you're in charge of job growth.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. I guess what I would tell you is, and I think I said it last quarter, that we see some encouraging signs in, you know, the DS-1s and DS-3s. That's where we have seen business pick up. You saw it in our numbers last quarter, we saw it again this quarter. So if I look for a strength that's it.  

If I look, and look at the CIO budgets, to tell you the truth, they're really not growing their budgets. I don't think they're slashing them the way they were in previous years, but we're not seeing a lot of economic growth other than really in some of the high transport. Now we typically are laggards so we'll have to wait and see how the rest of the year plays out.  

DAVID BARDEN: Okay.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: You didn't mean we were a laggard, did you?  

DOREEN TOBEN: No, I meant we, the industry.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yeah, okay. David, the other part of your question on margins, here's what I would say. I don't think you're going to find this answer particularly enlightening but hopefully it's common sense.  

We pay our people to do both. And so our belief, and as Doreen said earlier, is that where it's appropriate for to us reduce price by share, we believe buying that share is sustainable and permanent that's something we would consider.  

But in light of all of the churn that goes on in all of these new technologies, we've decided that if we end up inching downward in the margin, it's very hard to get that back and retain that level of performance. So our view is that we've been very focused on cost reduction, and as I think Doreen said, we're down 14,000 people year-over-year and so I think costs are one way that we generate the resources to focus on maintaining the margins.  

And the other issue is value. We have to come up with new products and services that when you add it to our existing products and services, give customers a reason to purchase the things we do.  

Are we the lowest price in every product that we offer? No. But we think when you put the whole package together, take VoiceWing we just introduced. We think VoiceWing, coupled with our DSL, will help drive more DSL penetration.  

Look at our Wireless. We think we have our network coverage is worth something in the Americas Choice plan. Now it doesn't mean that over time we don't adjust price and we don't compete, but our first instinct is to try to do both.  

Now you also asked about marketing. Marketing also, like every other department, has figured out their plan for the year and they knew they were going to introduce these product early in the year, and so they will now, you know, use the resources that they had planned for and budgeted for throughout the third and fourth quarters.  

So my view is that you should look to us and Doreen said it a couple times, for us to continue to be vigilant about how we manage it because we think once your company slides down the margin trail, very hard to go back up that trail again and so we're going to try our best to keep us as stable as we have been so far.  

Okay. With that I think Tom indicated that would be the last question.  

Needless to say, I'd just like to just make a couple of very quick one-line conclusions here so everybody knows how strongly we feel about the business and the prospects for the future, but it shouldn't surprise anybody that we're very pleased and delighted with the top-line revenue growth for the company. No matter how you slice it, it's an extraordinary performance.  

I'm personally pleased and frankly very thankful to our business units. Wireless in particular, not only had a great quarter, great run, they're on a great run, they'll continue to do it, but they keep redefining what leadership and benchmarks should be for the entire sector.  

We see significantly improving fundamentals in the telecom. We do have more work to do there but we see signs that our basics are beginning to pay off and we feel good about that. That's all produced great margins so we're very pleased with the level of margins that we performed here in the first half of the year, second quarter, which has led to great cash flows, which has allowed Doreen to continue to use the cash in a very disciplined and prudent way by improving the balance sheet, buying Spectrum when we needed to do that.  

And to me, the thing that's not said all the time, but while all this is going on, we aren't just investing in growth, we're investing in breakthrough growth. So at the same time we're doing all these things, we see our Wireless company buying Spectrum and increasing its distribution and putting a lot of money into things like EVDO, and then we see our teleco's not just inching their way along and selling more DSL and more long distance, which they're doing great at, but investing in a breakthrough technology that will give us access to sustained growth going forward.  

So if you go back to the revenue transformation chart, our view is not to have a great Wireless business and a teleco that won't hurt you, our goal is to have a great Wireless business and a growing teleco. And I think this quarter is probably first time in the last two or three that I hope investors can get the sense that we're on to something here, recognizing that we've got awhile to go here but we have the beginning of what you might expect from us in terms of how we transform our entire business.  

So with that, Tom, I think that will be it, and, Operator, thank you very much.  

TOM BARTLETT: Great. Ivan, Doreen, thank you very much. Thank you for being here this morning. I mean obviously to the extent you have any follow-up questions please give us a call, and have a great day. Thank you.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040810e07r000e0
  


 HD
 Q4  2003  Verizon  Earnings Conference Call and Investor Conference - Final  
   WC
31,235 words
   PD
29 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
TOM BARTLETT, SVP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: I have never quieted a room that much! Why don't we get started? I know you are all working back on some coffee. I'm just going to make a couple of opening remarks.  

First of all, good morning. I really do appreciate all of you for being here and I'd like to welcome you hear, particularly for those that arrived at 7:00 AM to spend some time with our demos. I'm sure you'll find today's discussion very informative and helpful.  

   TD
You know, after actually reviewing the attendee list this morning, I realized that about half of Verizon's ownership is actually represented by people that are actually sitting in this room, so I really do want you all to know just how much we do appreciate your support and ownership and clearly understand the importance of your time and this morning's session.  

We have not held a meeting like this in actually quite some time, and my team actually felt it very important for you all to get better grounded and visibility into our business model, allowing you to better benchmark us against other investment options that you may have and again demonstrating that we continue to be a sound financial investment.  

But before we get started, let me just cover a couple of logistical items, if I may. First, you've no doubt seen our product demonstrations right across the floors. I'm hopeful that you do spend some time with them. I do feel it's important for you to feel in touch many of the products and services we have or are looking to deploy this year (sic). The demo area will actually be open until 2 PM this afternoon. And so as the presentations will be largely completed by about noon, you'll have plenty of time to spend time with the demos then.  

Secondly, for you in the room, we will have a question-and-answer session after several of our segments today. And I know you all have lots of questions and comments for us but if you could keep your questions on point at those particular times, I do think it will help the flow and prevent some repetition. Keep in mind, we will have plenty of time for questions and answers.  

As you are aware, the earnings release, financial statements, investor quarterly publication and presentation materials that we will be reviewing this morning have been made available on our investor Web site since 7 this morning, as well as , obviously, at your seats for those of you who are here with us. We are also Web casting this call on our Web site at  www.Verizon.com/investor. If you'd actually like to listen to a replay of this conference, you can do so from our Web site or by phone, beginning at 2 PM today and running through midnight on Monday, February 2nd. You can access the rebroadcast by dialing 800-642-1687; the conference ID number is 4089478.  

I would also like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement displayed on Slide Two of our presentation charts. This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risk and uncertainties. For those statements we claim protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Discussion of factors that may affect future results is also contained in our SEC filings, which can also be accessed from our Web site.  

So with that, again, I'd like to thank you very much for being here this morning. Given that as background, I'd like to now pass the podium to Ivan. Ivan?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG, CEO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Okay. Thank you, Tom, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us this morning. As Tom said, we have a full morning planned, so I would like to just take a few minutes to set the stage and give you a sense of how I'd like you to think about this morning.  

First, as you know, we released earnings this morning and in just a moment, Doreen will take you through the numbers, just as she always does on our analyst conference calls. As you can see, we had, in our view, a solid quarter based on sound fundamentals and as you will see operationally, we feel 2003 was a very good year for our company as we think about moving into 2004 and beyond.  

You'll also hear from the senior executives who run our major business segments about their plans for 2004 and have an opportunity to ask whatever questions you might have.  

Underlying our actions in '03 and '04 were a few fundamental believes about this transforming industry that we operate in and frankly, our capacity as a market leader in this sector to put the industry back on a track of accelerating shareowners value-creation.  

So there are two or three things I'd like you to think of as you listen to these presentations. First, clearly, we are real believers that the market for communications services, particularly in this transforming state, is big and getting much bigger. We are moving quickly to shift assets, revenues and management focus to the growth side of our business, which is broadband, wireless enterprise and data. Our efforts have strengthened our technological leadership -- the key, we believe, to a differentiated value proposition that will create competitive advantage and ultimately shareowner value-creation.  

Second, our technology edge puts us in a great position to go after the growth opportunities in a restructured communications space. Obviously, there are many challenges and impediments to growth, particularly in the regulated part of our business, but you should know we will continue to fight for a structure that winds up with today's competitive and technological realities.  

Look, on the regulatory front, there are several opportunities for positive change over the next 12 to 18 months. If the SEC resolves the issues on its plate in the right manner, that's upside to whenever you hear this morning. But whatever the outcomes, our belief is that it is our job to run our business, and we will be as aggressive as we have to be to insulate the future investments that you'll hear about today from bad regulatory outcomes.  

Third, we have the business model and leadership to establish ourselves as the market leader in every business we operate. (indiscernible) many segments we already have; in others, we have taken concrete actions to differentiate our business and strengthen ourselves operationally. Particularly, you'll hear this morning that we've reallocated our capital growth areas, we've revved our innovation engine to take differentiated products, services and bundles. On this point, I might add I all of you, or many of you, believe that you are industry experts and you follow this industry in great detail -- spend 20 minutes after this presentation and go look at the products that you are writing about so you get a feel for where we are trying to take the industry. We are accelerating our transition to a new technology base with aggressive deployment plans, and we will use our five-year labor contract to continue the biggest restructuring of our workforce and our cost structure, going forward.  

Now, just one preliminary hot topic -- most of you know that the hot issue right now in the industry is the scramble for a position in the U.S. wireless market with the AWE auction.  

Some of you have already asked and we also know there's speculation that our partner, Vodafone, may have an interest in AWE. So it's upfront (indiscernible) I can share with you is the following -- we feel very good that our existing relationship with Vodafone is working very well and the proof of that will be when Denny walks through his plans and his business, you will see that the two companies together have produced, without question, the leading wireless franchise in the country.  

But to the extent that Vodafone chooses a different strategic path and might be interested in AWE, we certainly would not shy away from wanting to own 100 percent of Verizon Wireless, as we have told you before.  

Yesterday, in Vodafone's announcement, Arun mentioned that he is not yet in a position to make a decision on this; he is still evaluating all of the information. We take that to mean he is still evaluating whether or not he's interested in pursuing a bid for AWE, which is a whole series of discussions that we have nothing to do with. So from our perspective, the real choice in all of this is really Vodafone's; it is their call to take the next step.  

But either way, you would imagine that we see consolidation of wireless as a very healthy development, which, if anything, will strengthen our market position. Verizon has been through these phases before and we have a record of using the restructuring of the industry to improve our competitive position and strengthen our business model. That's how Verizon Wireless was created, by integrating well over 20 different wireless companies.  

With our experienced management team and market-leading position, Verizon Wireless can only benefit from the consolidation of the entire industry.  

So with that, let me give you just a brief preview of the agenda. As I said, Doreen will come up momentarily and walk you through, as she always does, our 2003 results. She will take whatever questions in the allocated time. Then you'll hear specific plans about our '04 business models with Denny and Kathy and Larry. Doreen will be back, give you a little bit of insight into '04, and then I will be back with a little bit more complete comment about our business and be ready to answer and field any questions you might have.  

So I thank you for being here in all of this wintry weather. With that, our magnanimous CFO, Doreen Toben.  

DOREEN TOBEN, CFO, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks, Ivan, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us here today. I will begin by reviewing our fourth-quarter and full-year results, and then I will be back later, as Ivan said, to go through '04.  

What you'll see in our results today is a continuation of the trends you've seen all year, industry leadership of Verizon Wireless, a solid performance in a challenging environment in Domestic Wireline and continued strong cash generation throughout the entire business.  

Looking at revenues, on a comparable basis with a directory accounting change, revenues grew 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter and 1.7 percent for the full year -- at the upper end of our guidance. Revenue growth in the fourth quarter was driven again by strong Wireless growth.  

Our Telecom Group revenues further stabilized and grew on a sequential basis. A big contributor was InterLATA long distance, which has become a $2 billion annual revenue business with solid operating margins.  

In terms of earnings, reported fourth-quarter earnings showed a loss of 53 cents per share. On an adjusted basis, EPS was 58 cents for the quarter and $2.62 for the year, which was above our revised guidance of $2.56 to $2.60.  

Cash flows continued to be strong, which enabled us to reduce debt by 7.2 billion for the full year. Net debt now totals 44.7 billion.  

This solid financial performance was made possible by the continued excellent operational performance of our businesses. Verizon Wireless capped off a great year with a very strong performance in the fourth quarter. Net adds were just under 1.5 million for the quarter and 5 million for the full year. ARPU remained solid at just under $49 for the quarter and the commitment to our network and to customer satisfaction pushed churn to a new low of 1.68 percent for the fourth quarter.  

In our Wireline business, long-distance continued strong, steady growth. We now penetrate over 40 percent of our retail consumer and small-business customer lines, an increase of 28 percent from last year.  

We also had significant success in our Enterprise Advance initiative. We closed almost 1,200 contracts and wrapped up significant wins with customers such as the Securities Industry Association, Capital One, JPMorgan Chase and UMass Memorial Health Care. At the same time, we were the first major telecom company to land big wins with voice-over-Internet protocol, Voice-over-IP, signing contract companies such as American Airlines, Brandeis University and a school district outside Las Vegas. Finally, DSL continues to ramp up. In fact, the fourth quarter was one of our best ever.  

Now, let me walk you through the earnings reconciliations for the fourth quarter. Included in the reported earnings per share loss of 53 cents were these items -- previously announced expenses of 2.9 billion, or $1.04 per share for costs primarily associated with a voluntary separation program. Partially offsetting these items was a 44 million, or 2 cent per share, net gain. This includes the gain on the sale of Eurotel -- (technical difficulty) -- property. A portion of those proceeds have been earmarked for contribution to the Verizon Foundation to increase the level of self-sufficiency for our corporate giving program. Finally, a total charge of 215 million, or 8 cents per share, for other items primarily related to environmental remediation programs and our leasing operations. Adjusting for these items results in 58 cents per share on an adjusted basis.  

This next slide just shows the trend in revenues year-over-year when the growth rates are consistent for the directory accounting change. The key take-away here is that we are growing the business by executing on our strategy to change the mix of our revenues.  

Let's turn now to the consolidated and segment revenue trend. As we've mentioned, consolidated revenues grew 2.6 percent. When you adjust for the directory accounting change, once again the big driver was Verizon Wireless.  

Telcom revenues were actually up slightly on a sequential basis; this was the first time of sequential increase in several quarters.  

In the lower right part of the slide, we have combined our other segments. In Information Services, revenues in the fourth quarter were down year-over-year and slightly sequentially, mainly due to the accounting change and to the effects of the property sales.  

The next slide shows adjusted operating expenses and excludes the effects of pension and OPEB. At the consolidated level, operating expenses were up about 200 million sequentially. Most of this increase is driven by the Information Services segment, which had a 210 million swing in expenses from the third to the fourth quarter, driven by two main issues; one was a 141 million benefit in the third quarter from the European directory sales; and then in the fourth quarter, we had a 70 million sequential increase in bad debt expenses.  

On the Wireline side, expenses were up slightly due to several factors. First, there was a $110 million lump sum; second, the timing of some of the contingency costs; and third, further costs associated with the take-back of employees resulting from the July arbitration decision; finally, some of the increased expense from growing our customer bases in LD, DSL and enterprise.  

Partially offsetting these expenses were the benefits from the retirement program.  

In Wireless, costs were up largely from customer growth and LMT implementation costs.  

Taking a look at adjusted operating income margins and excluding pension and OPEB, total Verizon margins were down 70 basis points sequentially, driven by Information Services.  

In the Telcom segment, margins improved sequentially by 30 basis points, due to the improved revenues and the expense items I just covered.  

But before I moved to our cash story -- and this isn't on your slides -- I'd like to give you some color on a few below-the-line items that contributed to the annual results in Omnitel.  

If I look at the full year, almost 10 cents of earnings were driven by favorable foreign exchange rates, tax benefits arising out of a reorganization and a contribution from a tax reversal (indiscernible). For the fourth quarter, this was about a 3 cent benefit. Most of this favorability was driven by the tax benefits and some FX, which we obviously don't expect as much in 2004.  

So let's now move to cash. One of my primary areas of focus for Verizon remains cash flow generation and debt reduction. We had a very successful 2003 on both counts. We supplemented our operational free cash flow with the proceeds from some asset sales and tax refunds from investment losses. This allowed us to more rapidly reduce debt while at the same time funding wireless spectrum purchases.  

At the segment level, if I take a look at cash from operations less CapEx, we saw improvement across our three largest segments. Wireline cash flows improved significantly, due to the reduced CapEx as well as improvements in working capital. Even as they continue to invest in the network, Verizon Wireless' financial discipline resulted in 39 percent growth in their cash flow to 2.9 billion. Finally, our directory business continued its steady, strong cash flow.  

Looking at our capital expenditures, for the full year, we spent 11.9 billion, which was just below the lower end of our guidance. I will be back later to cover 2004 CapEx, but it will be higher than 2003 due to increases at Wireless, which we announced earlier this month.  

Let's now move into a bit more detail on our segments, starting with revenue of our Domestic Telecom unit. In the consumer segment, we continue to see solid revenue trends. Consumer revenues, while down 31 million sequentially, actually rose slightly compared to last year. These results demonstrate that we are almost completely offsetting competitive losses through increased penetration of our bundles. About 48 percent of our retail customers have two or more services from us.  

We are seeing stabilization in the business market as well, as some of our initiatives in the enterprise and small-business marketplace are beginning to bear fruit.  

Sequentially, revenues of 3 billion were up slightly and flat year-over-year, a great accomplishment, especially in a tough economy. Total beta (ph) revenues were up almost 1 percent, driven by CPE sales and increased contribution from DSL. Wholesale revenues were up by 89 million sequentially, primarily driven by increased UNE volumes and revenue assurance efforts. Other revenues were down due to declines in the logistics business, transport services provided to ISPs and the exit of noncore software business.  

On the customer growth side, our strategy of increasing the penetration of bundled services continues to drive up our consumer ARPU growth, which was -- growth was 7 percent year-over-year.  

Taking a look at DSL, we had about a 10 percent sequential increase in net adds, which I would have to say was our best quarter ever. During the past year, we expanded our adjustable market for DSL by 10 million lines as we expanded our DSL deployment, which gives us good momentum going into 2004.  

On the LD side, we added about 736,000 lines in the fourth quarter for a total of 16.6 million lines. This has become a very profitable business for us, with solid margins and generating over 2 billion in revenues last year. Overall LD penetration of the retail consumer and small-business lines is over 40 percent. However, in some states, we are over 50 percent. As we reach these levels of penetration, it's natural to see a slowdown in the rate of quarterly net adds. Our goal is to continue to drive the levels of penetration up and keep our focus on profitability.  

To sum up, a very successful year during which we drove consumer revenue increases and added almost 4.2 million LD subscribers and about 650,000 DSL subscribers.  

Moving on now to the business segment, revenues are pretty flat on overall basis. However, we do have mix changes going on within this segment as well. The strategy in the small and medium business segment is similar to the consumer segment, as we seek to drive increased packet penetration to offset some share loss.  

During the past year, we introduced our Freedom For Business packages and we enhanced our DSL offerings to drive higher revenue per customer. You can see from the start that the effort has paid off. We have seen an increase of more than 3 percent in revenue per customer. These packages also increased retention and win-back opportunities as well.  

Turning to the Enterprise side, we have had great success during the past year in winning market share in this segment. From a standing start a little over a year ago, we inked nearly 1,200 contracts last year for our Enterprise Advance initiatives.  

Turning now to AccessLine trends, switchedAccess lines continued to decline during the quarter. Total SwitchedAccess lines were down 4.2 percent with declines in both the consumer and business market. We lost 379,000 consumer lines in the fourth quarter, which is a slight improvement over the third. However, despite these losses, we have been able to hold onto our consumer revenue levels through increased package penetration.  

On the business side, we lost 224,000 lines during the quarter. Even as the economy improves, we're not seeing much of a pickup on the AccessLine side in the business market, although the data side on the revenue side looks better.  

Taking a look at the UNE-P losses, we had a slight improvement from the third quarter. While we are seeing improvements in some of our states, we are seeing renewed activity in both New York and California and an increase in activity in Pennsylvania in anticipation of some new, lower rates. This obviously puts more pressure on our costs, which is what I would like to turn to now.  

I'm very pleased to report to you that our Telcom group reduced its headcount by 22,000 employees during 2003. A large part of that was the voluntary retirement program during the fourth quarter. This is probably a low point on headcount because we will need to replace a small number of retirees and hire in some growth areas. For example, we are in the process of adding about 1,200 employees to support a recent significant win in operated (ph) services. However, I am very comfortable that we will be able to sustain much of this reduction, as we have streamlined our organizational structure.  

Cash expenses, including pension and OPEB, declined by 400 million year-over-year. This performance is a result of our continued focus on expense reduction and efficiency initiatives, such as the implementation of voice portals that reduce customer service costs, which you'll hear more about from Larry later.  

Let's move now to Wireless -- once again, a great quarter at Verizon Wireless -- record adds, record low churn with great financial metrics, all achieved against the backdrop of uncertainty caused by the implementation of LNP. Service revenue growth was strong. Service ARPU decreased slightly year-over-year. We continue to see a greater contribution from data with data revenues accounting for almost 3 percent of service revenues, almost tripling both for the quarter and for year-over-year.  

Total net adds were strong. We had retail net adds of just under 1.4 million. For the year, we added a total of 4.6 million retail net adds, 30 percent better than 2002.  

Our distribution, led by our store channels, is one of our key strengths and accounted for more than 62 percent of our retail growth adds in the fourth quarter.  

America's Choice plans continue to drive our growth. Three quarters of our new retail customers choose America's Choice. We also maintained our quality growth profile, with prepaid customers accounting for just 12 percent of gross adds, down from 20 percent a year ago.  

Usage growth remained strong, with MOUs now at 489, up from 481 in the third quarter. That's about a 25.7 percent increase over last year.  

Even with our strong focus on customer growth, our emphasis on gaining quality subscribers has not changed. More than half of our base today is on an America's Choice plan. The majority of our base is postpaid customers, most of whom are on one and two-year contracts. Our prepaid and retail mix remained relatively unchanged.  

Another indicator of our attention to customer quality is our bad debt expense level, which has consistently been running well below 2 percent of our service revenues.  

Churn performance in the quarter was great, especially in the environment of LNP. Total churn was 1.7 percent, an improvement of 2.1 percent from last year and a sequential improvement of 20 basis points. Retail postpaid churn was a record low of 1.3 percent, down 50 basis points from last year and down 10 basis points sequentially. These churn results were achieved through our consistent focus on customer satisfaction and retention, which enabled us to maintain our margins in this competitive environment.  

Moving to costs, Wireless continues to drive cost out of the business, even as its growth increases. Cash expense per subscriber was basically flat through the quarter, even with a 10 percent jump in retail gross adds, along with additional expenses associated with the implementation of LNP.  

Costs per MOU continues to decline and our employee productivity continues to improve as we also strive to provide better service.  

Before I finish the Wireless section, I would be remiss not to mention the impact of LNP. We are clearly a net winner, as we have seen more (indiscernible) in than out in early days of LNP.  

In summary and to put it mildly, 2003 was a challenging year, but it was also a great year of progress on a number of fronts. We were able to drive operational performance to enhance our competitive position; we continued to invest in the network capabilities that will prepare us for the opportunities of 2004 and beyond; we used our strong free cash flows to further strengthen our balance sheet while we allocated resources to areas for future growth; and we also continued to examine our asset portfolio and rationalize assets so we could shift more resources to the higher growth areas.  

Since we have a long day planned with lots of speakers, what I will do now is I will take a few questions and then I will come back after I do 2004 and later to answer other additional ones.  

Adam?  

ADAM QUINTON, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: It's Adam Quinton from Merrill Lynch. Just a trivial point of detail, Doreen -- that 8 cent special item for environmental remediation (indiscernible) can you give us a bit more detail about exactly what that is?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes. In the 1960s, GTE had a property in Hicksville, Long Island that produced nuclear fuel rods. We are doing remediation of the site, and it's primarily the bulk of that 8 cents is there. We are also doing a very small piece in a leasing company on some airplanes for United Airlines in the event of bankruptcy.  

Kim (ph)?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Could you give us a little more color on the AccessLine growth? It seems to remain fairly weak, even though kind of employment seems to be stabilizing. Do you have much portability from Wireline to Wireless as (indiscernible) number portability has kind of developed?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think what I would say to you is when we look at Where the access lines are going, it's, I think, clear to us that there is more intermodal, obviously, than just UNE-P. So therefore, I think there is more moving to Wireless. Fortunately for us, it goes to our own wireless.  

Dave?  

DAVE BARTON, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Dave Barton (ph) from Banc of America. Doreen, just on the Wireless, could you talk a little bit? I might have missed something. I think you talked a little bit about tax benefit that you were getting in the Wireless division and something about --(multiple speakers).  

DOREEN TOBEN: Omnitel.  

DAVE BARTON: Thank you very much. The second thing is just on the ARPU shift quarter-over-quarter. I know some people were having some accounting changes in the quarter that might have affected ARPU. Can you talk a little bit about some of the promotions or some of the sustainability of where the ARPU decline came from and what we might be looking at in the first quarter as a bounce?  

DOREEN TOBEN: Two things -- first, on the accounting change, I saw that Cingular did a USF, so they took their revenues and expenses and netted. We have always had USF not part of the -- you know, we've always done the same, so there's no change to us.  

On the ARPU for the quarter, I think, if you look at history, the fourth quarter has traditionally been a lower ARPU. What the issue with that is a lot of the adds come in at the end of December. Therefore, from a usage basis, they're coming in late December; you're not getting folks that are running over on usage.  

Simon?  

SIMON FLANNERY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: On the pension status, can you just give us a sense what the returns we got during '03 and some of the impact of the downsizing (sic)? Where does that stand at the end of the year?  

DOREEN TOBEN: The returns at the end of '03 were excellent. I'm not going to give you a number because we will put it in a 'K' but they were the highest we've ever had in the last 15 years, so they were good. The second part was?  

SIMON FLANNERY: In terms of the balance on the funds. You overfunded, underfunded -- (Multiple Speakers).  

DOREEN TOBEN: As far as the funding issue, we don't have a funding issue. We said (indiscernible) in June that we had about a $125 million issue in '04. The status of that is still the same, so it's about 125 million from a funding perspective. No additional funding.  

The other comment would be as far as next year when you sort look at the impact. We did not pay out of the pension plan into '04 -- the payment actually didn't go out until January, so therefore, you have a very large 5, $6 billion number reductions to the size of the pension to earn on.  

Richard?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Doreen, I wondered if you could elaborate a little on your comments on the higher backs in terms of the employee count and if you can give us any quantification on that. Maybe just perhaps stretching forward over future years, is that a comment to say that there's less opportunity to reduce costs? How shall we think about that?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I will start with the second part first. The answer is emphatically now, there is not less of an opportunity to reduce costs. I think you'll see a significant piece of John Killian's presentation in the Telco and that will go through the ability to reduce costs.  

As far as the headcount, I think in '04 -- because we will have a slight increase -- you know, not large in headcount, not a significant number.  

John?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: You guys did a very good job in turning around the Wireline revenue line, reducing the decline. Is that 1.7 percent decline sort of the range we should be looking at, going forward? Specifically, on the local revenues, you were down 6 percent last quarter, down 2 percent this quarter despite the fact that the lines got worse. What was the real driver of the local revenue line? Just as we look forward, do you expect to be able to keep it -- to move closer towards stabilizing that top line versus down 3 to 4 percent we've seen in the past?  

DOREEN TOBEN: I think that, in aggregate, if I look at it year-over-year, you'll see trends improve for '04. I think that if you look at it quarter by quarter, you have some seasonality. The fourth quarter tends to be a high CPE quarter for us, so there's certainly -- you may see it more lumpy. However, the trends are definitely down -- better; I shouldn't say down.  

On the local side, I think what you saw -- if you looked at the consumer and the business revenues, the bulk of them really book to local, and so I think the packages have made a big difference there. So, I think it will certainly be better than it had been in the first three quarters of the year.  

Right there?  

KURT SCHANSINGER, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Kurt Schansinger from Merrill Lynch Investment Managers. I'm trying to reconcile some of the operating margin statistics. You had total sequential margins down 70 basis points, but in your two biggest businesses, one was up 30; one was down only 40.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Yes. As I went through the presentation, I think what I said to you is Information Services, so if you take a look at the Information Services margins, it's down significantly. Once again, it's the sales of Directory. International directories had a big boost to the third quarter, and then they didn't have that in the fourth quarter and they had the $70 million bad debt. If you adjust for those, you'll see that it comes right in line.  

I think that's it. With that, I'd like to introduce Larry Babbio, who is going to go through the Telecom numbers.  

LARRY BABBIO, PRESIDENT, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thank you, Doreen. Good morning again. What I'd like to do in the next few minutes is give you a picture of the strategies of the Domestic Telecom unit. The overall message of the presentation this morning is that, even though you see a lot of secular change in this industry, we in the telecom unit are focusing on a couple of important things.  

First, we're focusing on implementing a good, sound, long-term strategic plan to grow the revenue base and transform the network. But just as importantly, we also are very focused on delivering gross products, improve the efficiencies and holding the margins in the upcoming quarters. We have both a long-term and a short-term focus here.  

I'll take you through the marketing plans and network evolution and then I will ask John Killian, who is the CFO of the Telecom unit, to cover some cost and efficiency issues.  

Just a quick review of what we did in 2003 -- as Doreen said, it was a challenging year. It did have its own set of unique issues, its own opportunities and challenges. However, we continued to make some significant progress in strengthening our operating platform across a number of areas.  

We launched our innovative Freedom Unlimited LD package for both consumer and small business. We now have over 3 million customers with Freedom packages.  

In DSL, we enhanced the value proposition for our customers with competitive pricing, higher speeds and we bundled with MSN. We also increased the addressable market by about 10 million qualified lines.  

In the Enterprise business, we had significant success, as Doreen showed, with our Enterprise Advance initiatives, which I'll cover in a little more in detail later.  

On the wholesale side, we continue to be the world leader in terms of efficiency and market share in this area. We made significant force reductions. On top of that, we had a very good five-year labor contract to create a stable, operating environment for us, and it will also yield some significant savings over the life of that contract.  

We continue to focus on capital efficiencies. We've reduced our total capital and still invested in the growth areas like DSL and Enterprise Advance.  

Finally, we generated over $12 billion in cash from operations and over $5 billion in free cash flow.  

As you know, many of you have seen this model before. I still think it's important to show you how we run our business. We operate according to a model that essentially optimizes the mix of revenue growth, margins and cash that ultimately we use to fund continued investment in the new growth opportunities.  

The business model focuses on a couple of things -- delivering the best value proposition that we can to meet the customer requirements, developing a world-class infrastructure that allows us to meet more than the customers' expectations. When you combine that with great service and an intense focus on efficiency, that allows us to drive strong margin, create cash flow and good, sustainable financial performance.  

Let me deal with each of the markets, if I can. In the consumer and general business market, what customers there are looking for is an easy pricing model, an easy billing arrangement, and more and more, we find that customers want to buy a bundle or a package. They are definitely asking for speeds, and if they are a general business customer, they are asking for a way to converge and integrate their various services, both on a dial-up basis and on a special service basis. Finally, customers want to do business with a company they can trust, a company that's going to be here long-term and a company that's going to be responsive to their needs. I'm absolutely convinced we deliver all of that and more.  

Let's take a look at some of the data. About 48 percent of our retail consumer customers now subscribe to a package. It usually includes local and long-distance or local and DSL. Sometimes it's a Freedom package but all in all, as I said, about 48 percent of the customers have it. We've had significant success in driving the penetration of packages, and that development has caused us to be able to increase our consumer revenue per customer by, as Doreen said earlier, about 7 percent year-over-year.  

We also like the economics of the package. As an example, customers that take Freedom or Freedom with DSL churn about 70 percent less than customers without the package. The average revenue per customer is about $5 higher per month on these accounts. The combination of the loyalty, the higher revenue absolutely creates a higher-value customer for us. We think it's the right balance between competitive pricing in the marketplace and profitability. As John will show you later, we are working on the efficiency side and the cost side of that equation, and that allows us to essentially maintain the margins on these products.  

Long Distance is also a pretty good story. We offer a variety of competitively priced products here. We have talked about our Freedom product, but we also have five cent (ph) plans. We now have 41 percent penetration of our customer base with our Long Distance service. That's 16.6 million consumer and general business lines. We've done a very good job of rapidly penetrating this market. In most of our states, we are either the number one or the number two provider of long distance service.  

A couple of other points I think are interesting from this chart -- if you take a look at where our highest penetration is in New York, yes, we started early, but New York is also one of our most competitive states and it demonstrates that we still are able to deliver value to the customers, and they take it in even our most competitive environment.  

Second, when you look at the last states to receive 271 approval -- and those states are places like Maryland, West Virginia, Washington D.C. After only nine months of marketing, we've an average of about 22 percent market share. That's a rate of penetration that is better than what we achieved in the early states like New York and Massachusetts. So, as I said before, we are very focused not only on market share, but on profitability as well.  

This is a profitable business for us. It now generates over $2 billion in annual revenue, it grew 30 percent last year, and we have operating incomes in this business in the 15 to 20 percent range.  

In the DSL area, we gained some significant momentum in this business in 2003. I expect we're going to be able to build on that as we move into 2004. We added about 650,000 customers. We expanded the addressable footprint by 10 million lines. Behind the scenes, we did some very significant things in the operating area and we reduced our churn by about 20 percent. We changed some of our distribution models and essentially improved the profitability of the product.  

This year, we continue to look to continue those trends, drive to a higher run-rate in the sales area and continue to drive the churn rate even lower. We are also going to do some enhancement to the products. We're going to package MSN 9.0, or what MSN likes to call MSN Premium, that delivers more functionality, more content, more utility over the DSL line. We will also introduce a Voice-over-IP offering for our DSL customers in the second quarter. Finally, we're going to be expanding the market opportunity even further. We are looking to add another 7 million lines to the addressable market in 2004.  

As I said before, 2004 looks to be even busier than 2003. I just covered DSL. We've previously announced our plans for VoIP in the second quarter. We also announced our fiber-to-the-premises, or FTTP plan, surpassing one million homes. All these platforms together position us for driving new revenue and new growth opportunities.  

Let me take a second on the product that you see on the slide, (indiscernible) iobi. Some of you may have seen this in recent demonstrations. If you haven't seen it, you should stop and see it across the hall.  

I talked about convergence and differentiation in many parts of the presentation. But when you take a look at iobi, it is a platform that does exactly that. It is a platform that only Verizon can deliver. Iobi allows for what I call personal control of your own communication network. It brings together your wireline, your wireless, your SuperPages, your messaging, your e-mail, and it can work not only in the current circuit-switched (ph) environment; it also works in the new VoIP environment. We are excited about this. I would encourage you to take a look at it and I'd also encourage you to talk to some of the folks over there, as Ivan said.  

When we talk about an industry that many people think cannot innovate and cannot advance, the creative ideas that these folks have I think will really be startling to some people, but frankly, we've seen them so many times, we are very proud of them.  

Let me move onto something that will be introduced very shortly. We have been working with DirecTV to deliver video as part of the package. With this new service, we're going to market a bundle of local, long-distance, broadband, video and wireless. We are now ready to begin rolling out that package to our first market, which will be next week in Rhode Island. We will go head-to-head against Cox. After Rhode Island, you could expect that we will roll it out very, very quickly across much of our footprint.  

For our new DirecTV customer, they have a pretty compelling offer. It will be a priced about -- as you can see on this screen -- about $20 below the current Cox price. The offer will be sold through our residents' channels and DirecTV will do essentially the installation work. The approach minimizes any upfront investment that we have and contain the ongoing costs.  

While initially we won't be offered on a single bill, eventually we will offer all of these services, including, I might add, Verizon Wireless service, on one single bill.  

In the mass market, we will continue to drive penetration of our growth products; we're going to enhance the bundles; we're going to introduce new products, as I said, such as voice-over-IP and DirecTV. On top of that, we will again try to raise the level of customer service by establishing our encore centers to cover a larger and larger footprint that we cover.  

Let me touch for a minute on the small business segment, which in many ways is like the consumer segment but in some cases, it needs some additional service. This is a very competitive market. It's also a very broad and dispersed market. We have about 2.4 million customers, and they have about 8.1 million access lines.  

We continue to expand our channel coverage in this area. We've added additional headcount in both the direct and the indirect area. In the past year, we've added almost 200 people to the direct channel to focused on some very key, competitive markets like Boston, Philadelphia, New York and Tampa. In 2004, we're going to continue to expand that coverage.  

On the product side, we continue to drive our Freedom bundles into the business community. We've been very successful in penetrating this market with long distance. We now have about a 37 percent penetration of long distance in this general business sector.  

Data is also a key product in this market, and we will continue to enhance the data offering. In this area, where we have equipped almost 400 central offices with F-HDSL (ph), we now conserve the high end of the business with that enhanced DSL product. We also have enhanced what we call our FlexGrow product, which allows us to converge the access of small business customers. That is (indiscernible) (inaudible) switch and special access. We've equipped additional central offices. We now have over 900 central offices equipped. Here again we will be rolling out voice-over-IP to this important market segment.  

All of this in this market is driving revenue stabilization. We're getting more win-backs and we're getting them, most importantly, at the high end of this general business market.  

Let me switch gears for a couple of minutes now and tell you about the Enterprise market. This is a market that we are now significantly focusing on since we got complete 271 long distance approvals. We've spent the past 18 months building our network and our systems. We've also built up our sales force; we've built up our products. Our approach has been to organically compete in this segment and to grow it. I believe we've done that. We have almost 1,200 contracts, significant contract wins in 2003. In some ways, these customers now expect that we can be competitive in this market. In some ways, they want a lot of the things that we had already been offering to the consumer and the general business markets but obviously, it's a lot more complex by orders of magnitude. The Enterprise customers want integrated network platforms; they want end-to-end network management and they want a high degree of reliability. They are typically early adopters of IP technology, but they are also looking for IP services that doesn't cause them to have a complete change out of their CP (indiscernible).  

We think we can do all of that for them; we think we can be competitively priced in these products and services. We have the ability to leverage our in-franchise facilities; that provides us with significant cost advantages and it allows us to hold the margins in this area.  

I know we've been coming to conferences for years talking about network convergence. I think, in fact, in many ways, we are making this a reality for many of our customers. Basically, it's taking the multiple voice and data networks that these customers have today and migrating them into a single, converged network. When customers do this, they expect benefits such as reduced costs, improved applications, such as voicemail integration.  

We also know that if we get convergence in this area, customers like to focus on three specific types of convergence. They focus on the premises, where customers are migrating to IPTBX (ph). They also converge their Access network. We do that with technologies like our Metro Ethernet products. We also converge their networks on what we refer to as a Wide Area Network, where our VPN and voice-over-IP networks really play a very significant role.  

We have taken a leadership position at every element. We are selling, on the premises; we're adding to that sale our managed services and we're adding our expertise in this area. We are taking a leadership in the Access piece. We are taking a leadership in providing VPN and voice-over-IP offerings later this year.  

I might add that this particular market, since it is so new to us and since the technologies now in voice-over-IP are so disruptive -- that, in fact, is not a threat to us but, in fact, it is an opportunity. This is a place where we can come in and disrupt the existing embedded carriers. It's also a place where the customers have said they appreciate us as a good alternative to the imbedded IXCs (ph).  

Let's take a look at the product set. In the voice market, we continue to make good progress in terms of building our share and growing our share. We are able to offer long distance service. We're seeing growth in the CPE area.  

On the data side, we have a full suite of products from basic frames and ATM up to optical services. And we are growing very rapidly when I look across the entire national footprint. It's a good margin business, especially when we have the opportunity to leverage our in-region base.  

On the Enterprise Advance side, we will complete our network this year. We will build out with probably another 50 or so points of presence in major markets. Many of them will be out of our franchise. That will allow us to continue to reduce our costs. We will continue to advance our operating support systems and we will continue to make it easier and easier for customers to get access to our network so that they can interface with us on a flowthrough basis.  

Let me bring this home by using only one example. It is an example of a large financial institution which some of you in this room probably work for. The fact is that, when you take a look at all of the InterLATA traffic that is on the left-hand side, this is an extra opportunity for us. It now is an opportunity because we have full long-distance relief. We are successful here because we can leverage our existing local relationship and the facilities that we already had essentially in the (indiscernible) on the right-hand side. The customer now has a SONET network across a couple of different states; it connects a number of locations to their data center. The network replaces essentially a point-to-point network; it has given the customer higher reliability, given them a complete optical network. We've also been able to but voice-over-IP on top of that at the branch locations. Doreen mentioned some of the wins that we've had not only with this one but with people like Capital One, JPMorgan, UMass Memorial Hospital. The fact is, customers, as I said, now look at us as a very serious player in the Enterprise market.  

Let me just wrap up this particular segment by saying we are organically going after this market opportunity and we are executing on our plans. Customers are gaining the confidence and we look forward to expanding this market in the year 2004.  

We're going to do a number of things -- enhance our leadership position by utilizing things like iobi; we will consolidate our Access leadership by finishing our Enterprise Advance Metro build, and we will launch, as I said, VPN and voice-over-IP. Finally, we will initiate a service that we call MPLS, which for some of you in the room may know stands for multiprotocol layering system. It allows us to do any network interface. It really allows us to work across all the existing networks.  

We will continue to expand our account coverage, especially against the strategic accounts. This means we're going to put the right salespeople against the right target accounts and we're going to upgrade our technical expertise. In the back office, we continue to develop services and operating support systems that make life easier for customers. It allows them to integrate their products and allows them to get direct access into both the provisioning and the maintenance systems. The bottom line is that we are executing well on this plan and we are gaining organically in the marketplace.  

Let me talk about the value proposition on the wholesale markets. Many of you may think the wholesale market as a telric (ph) priced UNI market. This is not completely true. This is a very deep market and our wholesale group is one of the few wholesale -- what I would call full-service providers of communication services. We offer local services, switched assets, special access (ph), as well as domestic long haul and international service.  

There's really two distinct markets in what I call the Wholesale Group. On the high cap side, these customers are a lot like the Enterprise customers we serve. They want essentially the same thing -- reliability, good service, network coverage; they want easy systems interfaces. What makes them a little bit different, however, is that what we're doing for them is we are offering them the opportunity to buy their network capabilities from us rather than build their own networks. So that creates a little bit of a challenge. We try to balance the issue of competitive pricing with good margins for our business.  

On the UNE side, it's a little more straightforward. The regulators require us to sell UNEs. We sell them, unfortunately, below our costs. Our focus is to maintain parity of service between UNE another services that we offer and improve the provisioning process day in and day out, improve the maintenance process day in and day out so we can reduce our costs.  

In the high cap area, we are the premier provider of this service. Switched and special access services are high margin and they drove about 70 percent of our Wholesale market revenue in 2003. We have good revenue stability in this area, since about 85 percent of Verizon special access is what we call "under a term plan"; we've got good, long-term arrangements with about 85 percent of the customers in this segment.  

We participate in the growth part of the market because we are the premier provider of connections to wireless cell sites and we provide the wireless local back-haul in much of their networks. So there again we participate in both the Enterprise area as well as the Wholesale area.  

Our focus in the UNE area is the very straightforward -- drive as much cost and ordering and provisioning -- operational costs out of the businesses, improve the processes. Today, about 90 percent of the local services that we provide on the UNE environment operate on what we call a flow-through basis. We have lowered the unit costs in this business by about 30 percent just in the year 2003.  

In the 2004 area, we're going to focus on a number of things. On the access side, we're going to continue to offer a price and a value proposition that encourages other carriers to use our networks rather than build their own. We will continue to drive out costs; we will continue to maintain competitive prices and more importantly, we will continue to maintain the margins.  

On the local side, what we really want to do here is maximize the wholesale revenue per unit. (indiscernible) improve the margins and increase efficiency, as well as evaluate the commercial wholesale arrangements that we have with each of the carriers.  

Finally, I probably couldn't get through an entire presentation without mentioning something about the regulatory environment. Our strategy here is pretty simple -- appeal the TRO, the triannual review order, especially in those areas with UNE and unbundled elements. We will continue to appeal these rules either in court or in the State or at the federal level, and where we are not successful there, we will continue to do things in the technology base and in the network so that we can free ourselves of these rules.  

Let me talk a little bit about the technology base now that I've referenced it. Let me start with what we see in terms of customer requirements. When I look across the board at access, transport and switching, we see that, in many cases, the drivers are the same -- more bandwidth, increased control, increased flexibility and reduced UNE costs, which ultimately they believe -- customers believe will result in reduced unit price to them.  

We will continue to seamlessly integrate all of our existing infrastructure with the new network elements. This is extremely important to our customers not to be disrupted. We will transition services onto the newer, more efficient platform and we will do it in a cost-efficient way and we will bring new products and services in that same cost-efficient way. The result will be more bandwidth in the access plant; it will be an expanded optical network in the transport layer, and it will be a new generation of packet technology in the switching infrastructure.  

For a minute, let me deal with each piece -- access, transport, switching. Some of you I know like these diagrams; others get clouded over, as we like to say, with the cloud diagrams. But if you'll be patient for a few minutes, I'm going to try and take you through some technology slides.  

First of all, we did announce recently our fiber-to-the-premises initiative. It will be rolled out this year and we will be providing fiber access to both existing as well as new customers; we will be at existing as well as new services to over one million homes. For the techies in the crowd, this is really the high level passive optical network system that we're going to deploy.  

Important point -- it is a full-service platform. It can interface with the public switch telephone network; it can interface with our data network, and it will allow us to introduce video services to meet the market demand.  

I would also note that when you take a look at the FTTP system, it is entirely compatible with voice-over-IP. We think that there is now some opportunity to integrate these technologies for even a greater potential in cost savings and revenues. All this means for the customer is very simple -- more services, higher speeds, higher than copper and higher than coax, greater convenience, and for us, more opportunities for revenue growth and more importantly -- or as importantly -- more opportunities to lower the operating costs.  

Let me now move onto the voice-over-IP challenge. This diagram shows how we plan to implement what I would call Phase I of our voice-over-IP. It is a non-QOS, or nonquality of service, solution that uses the Internet. It is offered across our broadband base. As we've previously announced, our current plan is to launch this product in the second quarter into the consumer market. It will allow, as you can see on this start, our DSL customers to get our voice-over-IP service.  

We then move on. Our next market strategy will quickly change. It will be followed by what I call Phase II, and it will be the building and the operation of our own managed IP network using SoftSwitch technology. We will go to market here with a QOS grade service, a quality of service grade service, that is offered to both the consumer and the general business market. That will be deployed in the fourth quarter of this year. As the diagram shows you, we will introduce more functionality and what they refer to as the IP cloud. In some cases, you are going to find that two of these technologies, both the IP technology and the circuit technology, will exist side-by-side. But you'll also see that the investment dollars will continually shift from the older circuit-switching technology to the newer packet IP technology.  

Now to the conclusion of this -- as we gain more scale in this business, we will begin to transition the customers from the switch technology -- take them off the public switched telephone network as we know today -- move them to the VoIP infrastructure. We will do this by adding lined gateway capabilities and what this does, it allows us now to offer IP technology to a broader base of customers; it allows us to modernize the infrastructure; it allows us to drive lower costs. Finally and most importantly, this is a network that is not subject to UNE-P unbundling rules. So, there's the end game -- a complete transition of our customer base in the high-end so that we can get the end offices completely transitioned onto a packet-based platform. Obviously, a long-term proposal and a long-term evolution of the network, but it is one that we believe is important to begin now, and it will begin to create a differentiated network for us and obviously that we can use now and in the future.  

This transformation has stirred a lot of excitement in the business. It is not unlike the transition we made many years ago from analog to digital. It changes the opportunities in the marketplace; it revamps the cost structure, both in the network and on the operating support systems side; it offers services that we previously did not have available on some of the older platforms and I think the combined story is a good one -- costs down, revenues up. We like the combination.  

Here now is kind of a generic view of our data network. What I want to bring to your attention here is how the proliferation of IP-based services in both the voice and the data side of the business essentially has allowed us to leverage our networks. Our metropolitan presence, combined with the national backbone that we have built, allows us now to offer an array of traditional optical and SONET-based data services, as well as the new IP services. Also, when you look at the platform that we use, what we referred to as DWDM, or dense wavelength division and multiplexing, you know that we can provide those on a highly reliable, very competitive cost structure.  

Moving to this common MPLS infrastructure -- what we call, as I said, the multi-protocol layering system -- now, this allows us and our customers to completely interoperate and most importantly for them, it allows them to retain their CPE, change it out as they see fit and not incur any extra, incremental or unnecessary expenses. Over time, this network begins to grow and it becomes fully integrated with our ATM and our frame-relay network.  

So let me kind of summarize the last few slides, if I can. I think the easiest way to do this is to kind of look at this by (indiscernible) again. More importantly, it's important to reinforce our belief here. Our belief, when we think of the network, is that DSL needs to be more widely deployed now and we must begin to transition to provide more bandwidth through fiber.  

When you think of the transport part of the network, our belief is that we need to have a common transport network based on optical technologies that operates across all the different platforms that we serve and all the different protocols that we serve. When you look at the switching element, our belief is that we must move the packet technologies at all levels of the infrastructure; that means we will eventually replace the local end office.  

All of these plans are implemented with a very focused discipline on how we spend our capital, how we build our infrastructure, and how we can be most cost-efficient in the network. We think that this network will be unrivaled in the industry, and it allows our customers to enjoy the latest advantages, both in technologies and service offerings and the highest quality of service that we can offer them. It also allows us, as I said, to lower our costs and, in many cases, remove some of the regulatory burdens hat we have.  

I'm going to come back later for some questions but what I'd like to do now is turn the podium over to John Killian, who will talk some about the cost and the efficiency initiatives that we have in this part of the business. John? Thank you.  

JOHN KILLIAN, CFO OF VERIZON'S DOMESTIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks and good morning. As you just heard, we have a number of initiatives we're implementing to strengthen our position in the marketplace. However, at the same time, I want to assure you that we are very focused on our margins and capital returns in both our growth areas and our traditional business.  

Over the last several years, we have embedded in our culture a consistent focus on improving our underlying cost structure in order to improve our profitability and improve our cash flow. You can see the results of this focus as over the past three years, we have reduced our workforce by 57,000 people, or 29 percent, and we have driven over 2 billion of cash expense out of the business.  

While we have made exceptional progress with our cost structure over the last several years, we recognize that we need to continue to find ways to be more efficient and put in place an industry-leading cost structure.  

The opportunities in front of us are still substantial with over $30 billion in cash costs. As you would expect, this is made up of several different items with the largest areas being employment costs, capital costs, contracted services and materials.  

We've developed a focused and disciplined plan aimed at driving an additional 2 to 3 billion of costs out of the business over the next two to three years. The exciting thing about this is that all of our key organizations within telecom are leading cost-related initiatives. It also builds on the successes of the past three years.  

The strategy begins with driving the optimal mix of customer self-service throughout our business, driven principally by the use of Verizon.com, as well as the implementation of several voice portals using the next generation of speech recognition systems. We are also working on automating several key internal processes that will substitute mechanized applications for manual input. This includes initiatives that touch upon all of the key processes in the business. I will share some examples with you in a minute.  

Although we expect to see a slight increase in headcount in 2004 as a result of backfilling some key positions, we expect, over the next several years, to continue to reduce our headcount level through productivity initiatives and work elimination.  

Lastly, we are excited about opportunities to gain synergies in several key support functions, including real estate, procurement and travel. We are presently in the process of selling a number of properties in our real estate portfolio that we no longer need, primarily due to our recent voluntary separation offer and other downsizing initiatives.  

We know how to drive efficiency in automation, as evidenced by the results we have had in our wholesale business. In 2001, we embarked on an ambitious effort aimed at automation. This included mechanizing the end-to-end ordering and provisioning process for both Access and local services. As you can see here, in year 2000, virtually none of our Access service orders were completed on a mechanized bases. We finished 2003 at a 36 percent flow-through level and are driving to achieve 50 percent in 2004.  

On the local side, we're now approaching 90 percent flow-through, up from 50 percent in 2000. This has allowed us to reduce our headcount in the Wholesale business from over 8,300 and end of 2001 to about 4,600 at the end of 2003, while volumes at the same time grew by 34 percent, reaching 16.8 million orders.  

Our handling costs per service request has dropped from about $50 down to $23, which has allowed us to reduce costs by over $200 million. We are now taking what we learned from the mechanization of the Wholesale business and moving it through Enterprise and retail. As you can see here, our retail sales and service centers presently handle about a fifth of their transactions on a self-service basis. Through a continued standardization amortization of processes and systems, we believe we can conservatively drive this to 35 percent, ultimately yielding about 200 million in annual savings.  

Likewise, for directory assistance, we handled virtually none our customer requests on a mechanized basis in 2003. With the use of best-in-class speech recognition technology, we believe we can drive this to 18 percent in 2004 and ultimately to at least 30 percent.  

On the Enterprise side, we have implemented an Enterprise portal that is being accessed by about 6,500 of our Enterprise customers. This portal allows our customers to interact on a real-time basis to secure billing information, order services and report and status maintenance orders. This covers a wide array of services, including frame relay, ATM and SONET.  

Internally, the Enterprise portal improves the workflow for these complex orders across our local and long distance networks, substantially reducing costs while at the same time improving our provisioning intervals.  

Not to be left out, we also have a tremendous focus on improving the efficiency of field forces. We have made progress since 2001 in terms of improving productivity on the repair an installation side with double-digit increases. We believe we can continue to see significant improvement in our productivity initiatives through greater use of global positioning systems, as well as deploying laptops and other mobile solutions which automate our repair and installation process, eliminating costly hand-offs. This will provide significant cost savings to us as we move into the future. An improvement of half a job a day by our field force would save about $150 million annually.  

We are targeting our capital spending for 2004 to be in the 6.5 to $7 billion range, about equal to what we spent in 2003. Within this, we will shift more of our spending away from our traditional business into growth areas, including Enterprise Advance, fiber-to-the-premise, voice-over-IP and DSL. While (indiscernible) slice the chart this way, we are also allocating capital to implement the systems enhancements that I have covered to create the operational efficiencies to drive out expenses and provide better service.  

As I look to 2004, we are very focused on margin stability as we target our margin to remain fairly stable with 2003, excluding the effects of tension and OPEB expense. I have outlined only a few of the programs that we have underway to continue the transformation of our cost structure and to achieve our goals of continued aggressive cash cost reduction. We will also continue to build scale and implement efficient operating platforms in our growth business to improve profitability. We will focus on the efficient resource allocation to improve returns on our asset base, as well as freeing up and reallocating resources to our growth businesses.  

Let me now turn back to Larry.  

LARRY BABBIO: Thanks, John. Let me see if I can summarize the two presentations on one slide. I would probably sum it up with two words, stability and growth. If you look at these bullets, those are kind of the categories that they fall into. The first two, of course, we're looking at is growth -- growth in the DSL business, growth in the LD business, continued growth in the Enterprise business. In certain areas where we have some significant presence, like wholesale, we are looking for stability in those areas.  

We're also looking for a little more stability in the revenue area -- not as not of a downturn, hopefully, as there has been in previous years. We are also looking for, all the way along the line, improved cost, improved focus on efficiency and improved focus on making sure that we spend every dollar wisely and that we hold the margins, we hold the cash flow and we keep things constant, at least from a cash flow and a margin standpoint. That's why I say when I combine those two stories, I think hopefully you get one of a business that knows where it's going long-term, from a market, from a technology, from a product standpoint and knows how to get the results quarter after quarter. Thank you.  

I'm going to ask John to come back up if he doesn't mind. We will spend a few minutes before the break just taking some questions. I see a few hands up in the audience, about three or four. Why don't you start right here in the front?  

RICHARD TALBOT, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Richard Talbot from RBC Capital Markets. A question on the pace at which you can transition over to (indiscernible) voice-over-IP system. I think you've talked in the past about putting SoftSwitches into between two and five of the Class 5s in '04. Can you talk about how quickly you would look at ramping that up and what percentage of your residential base would have access to that service?  

LARRY BABBIO: Good question. As you know, with Voice-over-IP service, the ramp-up, depending on how we deploy it, can turn out to be very quick. You really don't need to replace every end office. You can provide voice-over-IP service to a very wide geography out of one voice-over-IP switch.  

If you were to kind of draw this network all over again from the beginning, you might be able to decrease the number of end offices by a factor of ten or maybe more. So, the advantage of voice-over-IP is we put one in a certain geography, whether it's northern New Jersey, Massachusetts or whether it's California, and we can serve a significant percentage of the population from that one switch.  

So, I don't think you want to think of this as kind of have to go out and replace every end office. You want to think (inaudible) much broader umbrella type of service that spans many, many offices. So the ramp-up is going to be fairly quick.  

PETER RHAMEY, ANALYST, BMO NESBITT BURNS: Peter Rhamey from the BMO Nesbitt Burns. I'm intrigued by your launch in Rhode Island - single bill capabilities; you mentioned it. I was wondering what the timing of that would be. Where is your competitor in that regard? If you could talk a little bit about your anticipated competitor response. I look at the sides of the discount and I find it fairly sizable and a good incentive for people to switch. I'm just wondering what your thoughts are on a cable response. Thank you.  

LARRY BABBIO: The cable folks will respond the way they want to respond. We think, when we put this package together, from our standpoint, we have good margin in every one of those elements; we think it's priced right. Our focus is strictly on making sure we get good value proposition, making sure our own platform is moving ahead. We probably will be able to get single billing in the early part of next year. It's probably going to be a little while before we get single billing. But we've also found, in previous trials like this and watching other people's experience, that that is not that critical a factor to a lot of customers; although it's a great convenience, it's not critical. We think people are going to be attracted by the unlimited LD, the good price on DirecTV and the good price on DSL. That's always been our focus, making sure that our platform generates the margins and is attractive. What the other folks do -- we will wait and see.  

I'm going to go right behind him and then I'm going to come back over to the center.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Two quick questions -- your competitors say the fact that you could probably reduce your central offices by 90 percent with new technology is going to place you at a longer-term cost disadvantage. Secondly, are you saying that the telecom margins you think can stay kind of flattish over the next couple years if they can stay stable with the 2 to 3 billion kind of expense reductions that you are looking for?  

LARRY BABBIO: I'm going to answer the first one, which is the technology question. I'm going to let John address the margin question. I always bring John up to answer the margin questions. He knows my answer but he likes to do them from a financial standpoint.  

To the issue of technology deployment, I don't see that as a disadvantage at all. The fact is we have a huge presence in every committee with every one of our (indiscernible) glitches now. That coverage enables us to be very cost-efficient when it comes to both transport and switching. We put voice-over-IP on top of it and we get to a large percentage of the base. So I don't view our network in any way -- our embedded network in any way as a disadvantage. Quite the opposite. If you take, for example, our ability to succeed in the Enterprise market, our biggest advantage over everybody is that we have access to the end-user and they don't. Almost 90 percent of the circuits that wholesalers get today come through us. When you look at the relative cost of providing networks to Enterprise customers, for example, the person that wins is the person with the most traffic on their network, and in most cases, that's us. So I don't view that as it disadvantage at all but rather it's a huge advantage. It does help some margins and it is going to keep them constant and John is going to tell you why.  

JOHN KILLIAN: I think we have a strong belief that, in '04, we can keep our operating margins -- that's the margin excluding 87-106 -- pretty stable with where we were in '03. Think about '03 on an operating margin basis -- for the full year, we were about in the 17 percent range. That's where we think we can stay in '04. '03 was a little lumpy; you know, there were different variations in the quarter, as there always is, although we are targeting a little more consistency in '04. We think we can do that because '03 was a little bit of an unusual year with the contract, how the lump sum impacted us. So, what's driving that is the cost efforts that we talked about is (sic) allowing us to do that while we continue to transform the business. Our team is very focused on continuing to drive those costs out of the business.  

LARRY BABBIO: I'm going to take one more; I promised right here. John and I will be around during the break.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: If I could ask adjust to quickies? One, just quick on the yields issue, I think, last year, you guys actually talked a little bit about how yields were going to be an issue that you faced, eventually a $500 million negative in '04 on the wholesale front. I was wondering if you're seeing any early indications that that is actually happening.  

Second was just on the pricing for the VoIP product in the consumer market. How are you guys going to price and bundle that product so that you don't end up cannibalizing the pots voice (ph) system?  

LARRY BABBIO: First on the yield spread -- and then I will as John if he wants to add to this as well. One of the things we've been trying to do to move against that, of course, obviously dealing with on a regulatory front -- but second, making sure that a lot of the customers that we have that take that type of service today get -- we are taking a look at price structure there; we are moving some prices slightly but we're also getting people on longer-term contracts and we're trying to offset as much of the impact of that as we can. So, we have not seen a significant amount yet but I would not say that we won't see it in 2004. A lot of it depends on how the regulatory environment turns out there.  

For the issue of Voice-over-IP and how we price it, don't forget, I talked here about two different models for voice-over-IP; I talked about an Internet-based model, which could be priced -- you've seen the providers out there now in the 30, $35 range, but the voice-over-IP that goes on our own network is a QOS level service. Typically, that would be priced a little bit higher. Here again, we haven't announced any of the price points on that. So you are probably going to see a couple of different models for voice-over-IP pricing, whether you use the Internet as the backbone or whether you use our own managed voice-over-IP networks.  

Once again, I'd like to thank you for being with us this morning. We're going to take a few minutes for a break now. I would ask everybody to be back at around 10:15 and of course, John and I will be around during the break.  

(Break).  

KATHY HARLESS, PRESIDENT OF INFORMATION SERVICES, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: I'm Kathy Harless. Good morning. You've heard a lot this morning about transformation, so it won't surprise you that I'm going to lay out how Information Services is transforming our business.  

Now, the communication landscape has changed over time and so has the role of Yellow Pages. In the past, directories were tied to the telephone business and today, when you've got the Internet and you've got growth on -- consumers use different options to find local goods and services. This is based on circumstances. For instance, you might use your print at home, the Wireless on the road and Internet in the office and so forth. So, with our expertise and Verizon's position as the largest full-service communications company, we are best-equipped to be the directory of choice whenever and wherever consumers need to find a product or service.  

Now, fortunately, the print Yellow Pages is very strong. Consumers use it, and it gets results. Now, we are maintaining that strength and leveraging it to expand onto multiple platforms.  

Now, because we realize that consumers need meaningful content, we are rapidly expanding the amount of information that we provide about the businesses that they are looking for. So the depth of the content also has application across a wide array of current and future Verizon services, including iobi, which already relies upon SuperPages.com information.  

Now, the linkage between our content and Verizon's delivery platforms will continue to grow as Verizon sets the pace for changing communications landscape.  

So, let's look at how we are going to keep our core business strong as we transform ourself into a truly multi-platform business. Now, we are starting with a very solid base -- the strength of our current business, combined with market opportunity. Now, on this chart, it may appear that our revenues declined in 2003. However, when you adjust for our change to the amortization method of accounting and the sale of the European properties, our revenues were basically flat year-over-year and we showed a slight improvement in operating income margin. But the most important point is that we grew cash flow, and that's a real strength of this business.  

As you know, high margins and cash flows make Yellow Pages a very, very attractive business. That's where we focus the majority of our resources, and that's what generates the bulk of our revenues. Now, our number one priority is to keep this print business healthy and strong.  

Now, in the past years, we have faced a difficult economy and increasing competition. But I will tell you, we've made tremendous progress in managing costs, improving productivity and streamlining to remain strong. For instance, we consolidated outdated IP systems into the industry's best integrated directory system, and then we used that as a springboard for process and productivity improvements. We have used our size and scale to negotiate attractive printing and paper contracts. In 2003, we reduced domestic printing by 260 million, or about 17 percent, and that was really a major driver of the 1.1 billion in cash that we delivered this year.  

We reduced domestic headcount by 29 percent and we did this through targeted reductions and the Verizon management separation plan, which actually helped us to create more efficiencies and cost savings. So even with the tough economy, we haven't taken our eyes off our commitment to print.  

Now, as we continue to make cost improvements, we also continue to maintain our edge despite growing competition. Now, in every major market, we go head-to-head with telco publishers, such as SBC and BellSouth, other media, such as cable and newspapers, online search engines, such as Google and Yahoo, and independent publishers, such as yellow books.  

Now, in our telco markets, our books have higher usage and retention than the independents with which we compete. In fact, third-party research shows that, on the average, among 100 directories studied, 67 percent of consumers polled used Verizon's Yellow Pages and only 16 percent used the other directories. So, that makes our books much more effective for advertisers.  

Not only that, but we also have many other attributes that sets us apart. Let me just tell you a few of them. We are the only Yellow Pages with national reach. We touch more than three-quarters of the top markets and almost half of the small businesses in the United States. We're the only truly multi-platform Yellow Pages. We already offer the largest number of print directories. We are the number one online directory and the only wireless directory service. We offer a broad set of product features, which includes print and online Hispanic directories, maps, special interest sections and I could go on and on. We have a local sales force with offices in almost 100 communities and these 2,100 well-trained representatives have relationships with more than a million advertisers.  

We have the Verizon Brand, which ranks number 15 among U.S. brands. So, we have roughly a third of the market for both print and the Internet Yellow Pages. So that gives you a brief review of our current position.  

But with that as a backdrop, I'm going to show you where we are headed, how we're going to get there, and why we will succeed.  

Yellow Page analysts expect the industry to grow more than 20 billion by 2008. They predict modest print growth of 1.5 percent in 2004 ramping up to a little over 4 percent in 2008. But, the Internet Yellow Pages and the local search market is expected to more than double every two years over the same period.  

So, in that Internet slice, search continues to be one of the most popular activities. In fact, nearly 80 percent of Internet users search the net. Now, the whole sector grew about 10 percent the first half of 2002 over the first half of 2003 but the most important thing to note is that, within the growth, the revenue from pay-per-click advertising quadrupled.  

In case you are not familiar with pay-per-click, it means that an advertiser pays every time a consumer clicks through to his content -- so whether it's to get a phone number, to access general information such as hours of operations or to reach a Web site or e-store. Now, advertisers bid on placement, setting their own price for what they believe a click is worth; higher bidders receive better placement. So they have the flexibility to adjust bids as often as they want -- for instance, if they want to promote some type of sale, they want to respond to a competitor or they want to target any specific geography. Think of it as an eBay for advertising. That's where we see the opportunity.  

Now, we can't just jump into pay-per-click because it demands really that you have something compelling for the consumer to click through to, so we are charting a course that will give us the three things we need to tap into this opportunity -- rich content that lets consumers find what they need, targeted local search capability, and a pay-per click offer that monetizes searches.  

Let me give you some more background. Today, there are essentially three ways consumers can use the Internet to find products and services. Online directories -- and they deliver local listings with name, address and phone number but very little value added content; national search engines, such as Google. Now, they provide a clutter of information, much of which has nothing to do with what the consumers are looking for; national shopping destinations, such as Amazon.com. They are geared to online purchases of goods but they don't effectively deliver local services such as plumbers, roofers or attorneys. So there's absolutely nowhere, nowhere for consumers to go to conduct a completely satisfactory search for local services. It's difficult for small businesses to effectively use the Web to generate leads.  

We are going to change that. Within the next few months, we will launch new options on SuperPages.com that will redefine the local search arena and unlock the value in our products (inaudible) pay-per-click pricing. We are building business profiles for all local listings with expanded contents -- store hours, brands, specialties and so on. These profiles, combined with GL (ph) search technology and a very simple heading structure, will make it easy for consumers to quickly find exactly what they need, where they need it, and how they need it.  

Now, it's a perfect solution for small businesses that don't want to deal with the complexity of a Web site, and it's a great way for all businesses to generate more qualified leads.  

Now, we will help advertisers migrate from current listings to better manage their presence through pay-per-click pricing. This will include both a full-service and self-service option for businesses to build profiles and pay-per-click programs. National advertisers also will be able to set up pay-per-click campaigns to reach online shoppers on a national-wide basis or through geographically targeted programs.  

Now, we expect to change the face of the search business, which up until now has been geared towards national products and national searches. While others are scrambling to build a viable local search option, we need only to leverage and expand what we already have. Our local print Yellow Pages content is transferable to the electronic products. Our local sales force can bring in even more content. SuperPages.com already offers local shopping across the nation. We have experience building and managing Web sites for tens of thousands of small and local businesses. We have the back office system, structure and processes to handle volume, and our existing SuperPages.com features enhance the shopping experience. We have healthy traffic through portals, including Microsoft and InfoSpace and traffic directly to our site. Thus, our partnership with FindWhat gives us the search technologies that we need.  

So, we are the only company with the resources and the experience to effectively offer pay-per-click advertising options to local businesses trying to reach local consumers. We have the relationship and the resources to build local content to make the service valuable for consumers. So we have content; we have reach; we have expertise. You can learn more about this product and what it actually looks like by going to the demo area, and you might also want to pick up the article that CBS Market Watch released this morning about us.  

In summary, we are maintaining the strength of our proven and profitable Yellow Pages as we build a new platform to attract an even larger audience. This creates a broader, more balanced portfolio of products and services. By managing costs, we will keep our print margins healthy while we expand our reach and monetized searches to add an additional revenue stream.  

The content we build has applications across all of Verizon. I mentioned the Wireless service; I mentioned the connection with iobi. This linkage will just continue to grow as Verizon delivers even more value-added services across its network. So that briefly is our approach to transformation.  

Now, I know you're interested in hearing about Wireless, so I will ask Denny Striegl to please come up. Thank you.  

DENNY STRIEGL, PRESIDENT & CEO OF VERIZON WIRELESS JOINT VENTURE, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Good morning, everybody. Before I launch into our outlook for 2004, Andy Halperin and I wanted to spend a few minutes supplementing what Doreen told you earlier by delving deeper into our 2003 results and the long-standing trends that we've had in Verizon Wireless that have led to those results. I believe that it would be valuable to look in more adept at 2003, because our performance in '03 really is the foundation for how we performed in '04.  

For context, it's important to consider that 2003 was an intense year, not just in terms of growth and profitability, but also in terms of the number and the magnitude of the initiatives that Verizon Wireless accomplished. You see them, most of them, some of them on this page.  

Our network, as well as customer service and workplace environment, as you undoubtedly know, won a number of awards in '03. We completed the implementation of our 1X network across the country on schedule, as we said that we would. We also launched EV-DO late last year in two major cities, San Diego and Washington D.C. Of course, that led to the announcement that we made earlier this year.  

In Text Messaging, we continue to see Text Messaging soar. I will talk more specifically about this in just a few minutes. Of course, we launched International Messaging, Picture Messaging, and push-to-talk. In all, 2003 was a very busy year for Verizon Wireless.  

At the same time, we accomplished industry-leading results, widening the lead that we have in the marketplace. We, frankly, stuck to our business model of focusing on the fundamentals of quality and profitable growth. We maintained, at the same time, disciplined cost controls in the business; we will talk a bit about those. At the same time, we reinvested in growth and in service differentiation.  

What I'd like to do now is turn the podium over to Andy to tell us about our '03 results and really dig into some detail. Andy?  

ANDY HALPERIN, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Good morning. Thank you, Denny! I will exercise your neck muscles a little bit and move around the stadium a little bit here.  

2003 -- I was delighted to have this as a topic, obviously having heard some of the highlights from Doreen as to how the fourth quarter went and how the year in total went. So I should just talk a little bit more about how things went and particularly to pick up the things that were underpinning that and some of the successes we had so that when Denny comes back in a minute and we talk more about our objectives for 2004, you will hear quite a number of these things continuing into the 2004 year.  

First of all, then, looking at customers, this chart here has actually taken the last two years in half-yearly intervals. Some of you will recall the start of 2002 was fairly slow for us, but we very quickly ramped up to around 800,000 net adds per quarter for about four quarters thereafter. We came into the start of '03 running at around that level. Then we moved up a gear, possibly two gears, and in the second quarter of '03, we went up to 1.3 million net adds to be followed by 1.4 million, to be followed in the fourth quarter by 1.5 million, each of which were successively records for the business. Overall, that gave us a total of 5 million net adds in the year, a significant increase on the previous year.  

Down on the bottom, look at the share of the overall increase in the market. Now, obviously, some of our competitors have not yet reported, so we have put industry analyst consensus in where we don't have actual numbers, but we look as if we are reasonably on course for actually having taken over a 30 percent share of the overall growth in the market in the second half in 2003. Thirty-three percent is indicatively where we are at the moment and you can see that that is a very significant increase over where we were fourth quarters previously.  

What does that mean then in terms of total customers? Total customer base as we exited 2003 was 37.5 million, an increase of 15.5 percent compared with the previous year. If you look at it in terms of market share, again with those estimate in there, we believe that our market share will be just fractionally under the 24 percent mark and that we will actually have increased that over the course of the year by just under one percentage point.  

Clearly, there are sort of two aspects of that growth; the first one is on acquiring new customers; the second one is on our ability to retain our existing customers.  

On the new customers, both in the fourth quarter and for the full year, we were up about 10 percent, compared with the previous equivalent periods. The real area where we were focused, though, was on churn. Really, this I see as being a consequence of many, many prior quarters of focusing upon the network, the quality, the coverage, customer service, the brand -- which I think all on this next chart manifested itself with a continuing and, in some respects, the local (indiscernible) portability maybe slightly surprising trendline.  

The totals here, the numbers above the pink, is the total churn we've seen going back over eight quarters. You can see 2.6 percent has now come down progressively to 1.7 percent. Within that, the gray bars and the silver bars, we have now, as Doreen mentioned earlier, got our postpay retail customer churn down to 1.3 percent. Now, remember that those are our most lucrative customers and interestingly, in a year when we added 5 million net customers, we did not do that at the expense of quality. Over 95 percent of our net adds were retail postpaid customers -- a major focus on quality as well as quantity.  

So, fourth quarter defined, maybe, some of the predictions in the market that, with local number portability around, we are actually going to see the churn jumping; it actually stayed below third-quarter levels, which, in turn, were actually lower than the previous quarter. So, we actually had a record low for our churn in arguably one of the more difficult to predict quarters in our existence.  

The other factor which I guess is worth referring to -- (indiscernible) probably went into 2003 believing that this was the year when maybe the stronger players were going to widen the gap between them and the weaker players. I think nowhere is this more evident than in the churn story. Nextel and ourselves down in the sort of mid 1.5, 1.7 percent range, and most of the rest of our competitors are in the 2.7 to 3.3 percent range, a very, very significant gap. If we had had those churn levels ourselves, clearly, our net add numbers would have been nothing like the numbers you've seen. Also, it would have impacted profitability. So overall, we were very happy with how the way churn has gone and as we go into 2004, as you will hear more, that is an area of major focus, going forward.  

Now, turning a little bit to the financial side of things, service revenue on the top here -- we went through the $20 billion barrier for the first time in 2003. Our overall service revenue, compared with 2002, was up just under 15 percent. That was courtesy of both the customer growth that you've seen and also year-on-year getting the ARPU up by about one percentage point. The similar trends there and on the operating income down below -- a slightly bigger percentage on the right over a two-year period.  

The other statistic that isn't here -- those of you who follow (indiscernible) the operating income before depreciation and amortization, which used to be a much-focused upon number -- and in the fourth quarter, we took that up from 1.9 billion to 2.1 billion. For the full year, we took that up from 6.9 billion to just under 8 billion -- so a big increase year-on-year. The margin, which I think is another area -- and I'm going to talk to this a little bit more on some of the future slides -- we have not gone for growth; we been very focused upon the margin. So the operating profit before the depreciation and amortization margin has actually gone up year-on-year in 2003. We actually were 0.1 of a percent higher than we were in 2002 despite the very, very significant investment in the extra customers.  

Cash flow -- Doreen mentioned earlier that we are now generating significant cash flows (inaudible) the cash flow from operations less CapEx, even though, as I will mention later, we increased slightly our capital spend during the year, we still increased our overall cash flow from operations by very nearly 40 percent.  

Now, I want to change tack and go to the next slide and just talk about some of the cost side of the business. We have been very focused on customer growth, as you've seen; we've been focused upon nudging the ARPU up, but we've also expended a lot of time during the year on the cost side of the business. Now, nearly four years post-merger, a lot of the integration benefits are really starting to come through and really, really now getting the business onto one set of systems, one set of processes and making sure that we get the benefit of that. The consequence of this is that our overall cash cost per customer has stayed below the $30 level throughout the period. Indeed, in the fourth quarter, we were just slightly lower on cash cost per customer than we were in the fourth quarter in the previous year.  

Many, many reasons for that many areas of focus, from billing systems to IVR platforms, to staff training, to realigning commission system. But I just thought I would share with you one or two of the areas where this has made quite a significant impact in terms of the cost structure of our business.  

First of all, on the top left, the total number of customers per full-time equivalent staff over a two-year period has increased by over 20 percent. Bear in mind that in late 2003, we did actually put more people in for local number portability, so if anything, that has actually reduced the level of increase over what it would have otherwise been.  

On the bottom left and looking at customer service productivity, customers per customer service staff has gone up by over 15 percent in the second period. Then particularly on the right hand side, the focus on the distribution side, looking at the gross additions, new customers and the upgrades, which is, obviously, an important part of the business per distribution employee, that has actually gone up by 35 percent over that period.  

I want to look at that last one a slightly different way, leveraging our assets. A lot of people think about that exclusively in terms of leveraging our network, but we also look at this in terms of leveraging other assets within the business, like our distribution assets.  

Top left, next chart, is the total number of direct retail outlets. Over the three-year period, that has hardly changed. On the right hand side, however, we've actually got 40 percent more productivity out of each outlet over that period. That has been a very, very conscious focus upon low performing, upon relocating to better areas, upon staff training, and upon various productivity and efficiency tools, many of them IT-led actually within our stores.  

Now, network efficiency -- this is a focus upon what I sort of call our transport costs, which is a big cost component for us. This is the direct telecoms link between our various sites; this is our long distance, long haul cost, and also the cost where our customers roam on our competitors' networks. All three of these areas have been the focus of significant attention. In many of them, we have been either renegotiating contracts with Verizon to get better use of facilities or, on the roaming side, also looking at the software management within handsets to make sure that we are automatically getting our customers (inaudible) (indiscernible) routing.  

As a consequence of that, you can see on the top right there, typically on a per-minute basis over this period, we have seen reductions in rates of between 25 and 35 percent per annum. Now, clearly, that has been very important because, during this period, our minutes of use per customer have risen very strongly.  

So, finally, capital efficiency -- I couldn't stand here and not talk about capital efficiency. On the left-hand side, total number of minutes handled by our network -- the combination of a 15 percent increase in the number of customers and around a 30 percent increase in the number of minutes per customer has actually meant that we have put something like 50 percent more minutes onto our network in the one year, 2003, compared with 2002. However, our CapEx for 2003 at 4.6 billion was only 4 percent higher than it was in 2002. So, a major focus also on the capital side to really make sure that we drive the efficiency. Expressed another way, in 2002, we spent about 25 percent of our service revenue on capital expenditure; in 2003, we reduced that down to 23 percent.  

So, hopefully, that just gives you some flavors of the focus that we've had during the year -- very much on the customer growth, very much on cash control and cost control. I will now hand back over to Denny, who will pick up some of those themes going into 2004.  

DENNY STRIEGL: Thanks very much. Andy, don't go too far. Andy will come back on the stage in just a few minutes to answer a few of your questions.  

At this point, let's look at 2004 and look at the opportunity that we see in the marketplace and the initiatives that we have for seizing that opportunity.  

In 2004, we are going to see more of the same from Verizon Wireless. This is our model for quality and profitable growth. Anyone in this business, I believe, can have profits; anyone in this business can have growth. The real trick is to do both. I'm pleased to say that we have been not only interested in doing both profits and growth year after year, but we have been quite successful in doing so.  

Many of you in this room have seen this model before; we've been using it and refining it ever since our launch about four years ago. It's the reason, I believe, that we are uniquely positioned in the marketplace, and that's why you'll see us delivering more of the same from what's in this model.  

Our model starts with strong fundamentals. It focuses on the superior network that we have, and it builds upon value and brand. From that strong foundation, we execute with discipline, maintaining a high-quality customer base, as Andy told you, a very low churn, and accreting ARPU, and as Andy pointed out, also continuing with stringent cost management. By delivering on the first two items, we sustain excellent financial and operational results.  

So, let's take a look at the specifics of this model and our actions in 2004. This year, we will focus on these four drivers that you see on this slide, and they are what we call, in our business, key drivers of differentiated, sustained performance. So, continued network leadership, market-share growth, increasing ARPU as the one variable admittedly where we are not leading the industry -- ARPU has our full attention, and while ARPU is accreting, I am still not satisfied with our ARPU level and we will be very focused on ARPU again this year. Our fourth initiative revolves around further driving efficiencies and preserving our low-cost industry leadership.  

Our premier network remains our competitive advantage. It is not only America's largest wireless footprint, but external and internal measurements tell us that it is the most reliable. Our network technology choice is highly efficient. Andy told you about capital efficiencies we've gained, and we will continue to pursue these in '04. Our CDMA platform and its evolutions are spectrally efficient as well. Moreover, our technology choice provides a clean, efficient evolution path as evidenced by our recent EV-DO announcement.  

We were the first to offer high-speed wireless broadband last fall when we launched EV-DO in Washington D.C. and in San Diego, and we are evolving our network to keep that competitive timing advantage that EV-DO gives us. More on that in just a minute. But I would like to emphasize loud and clear that as we evolve our network to provide exciting new products, we will do everything we can to preserve our best-network reputation.  

I will point out, as I often do, that voice is still king in this business, from a customer and revenue perspective, still king, and we intend to treat it as king.  

Our decision to expand EV-DO nationally, which we made just a few weeks ago, begins now. It gives us a very significant time-to-market window of opportunity. We are the first to launch wireless broadband speeds in major markets. Clearly, that's not something that many of our competitors will be able to do. Not for some time out will our competitors be able to compete with us in this regard, particularly considering the lagging availability of WCDMA and the focus on edge, which, on an apples-to-apples basis, in terms of comparison of raw speeds, edge is comparable to our 1X service.  

Timing is important because faster speeds are the building blocks for richer, more complex services. As this chart shows, this is what our customers tell us what they want, and what they're telling us is they want it now.  

While voice remains the mainstay, you can see the convergence of advanced services all on the same CDMA platform. This point is very important; we are not swapping out networks to gain higher speeds, so we are not facing the difficult transition issues and migration costs that others in our industry are facing. We will also be able to deliver, now, what we know our customers want now in the way of broadband services. While 1X networks have given us a broadened product offering, we move to broadband really with a focus on high-speed, remote access, large-file transfers, as well as fund and visual capabilities like video content.  

Our second 2004 initiative is continuing to grow our market share. As you see on this slide, these are the main forces driving industry growth. This is overall industry growth. First penetration opportunity, we believe, remains. Just look at Western Europe's penetration levels ranging from 55, 60 percent to almost 100 percent. At 54 percent in the United States, we believe there is still plenty of Headroom. Second, fixed-line substitution continues. You know the numbers as well as I do.  

The third driver is, of course, data. Just for a minute, consider these facts -- more than 150 million Americans have a mobile phone. Some 24 million Americans have a broadband connection, whether cable or DSL, and now laptop sales surpassed PC sales in 2003. So, I will let you connect the dots on this. Between these facts, I think we draw a great picture of opportunity that EV-DO will bring us.  

So, to take advantage of this opportunity on the marketplace, we will expand on the wide lead we've built in market share over the past two years. As you see on the right hand-side of this chart, we will do this by leveraging our strong brand, focusing on high-value customers, excelling in customer service and further improving our loyalty levels.  

Our brand is based on our greatest strength, which, of course, is our network. Based on third-party research, Verizon Wireless is the most-recognized wireless brand. Not only is awareness high, but overall customer preference remains high, as you see on the right. We are winning now in 22 of 22 brand preference attributes over our competitors. In just three years, ours has emerged as the premium brand in the marketplace.  

Importantly, our brand preference in the business segment is also building quite rapidly. In the second half of '03, our brand attribute preference wins doubled over the first half of the year. These are attributes such as a company that listens, an attribute saying that our company understands my business needs. You get the idea, but we've made some very good progress on the business side. Clearly, this trend is in sync with our strategy to focus more in '04 on the high-value customer.  

Many of you have heard me say this before also -- our strong distribution mix is an advantage in targeting and growing our overall business, but we intend now to use it to obtain high-value customers more than ever before. We believe we have the largest network of company-owned stores devoted to wireless; we have over 1,200 stores across the country. Andy talked a bit about our productivity improvement in our stores. Sixty-one percent of our gross adds have come from our Company-owned channels overall. We are focused on company-owned retail, frankly because we have customers that spend more, stay with us longer and we have direct contact with these customers. As a part of our direct focus, we continue to build on the depth of our retail distribution channels, not only stores, but also from traditional telesales to self-serve Web store, which we are now offering.  

We also believe we have the largest indirect distribution network of any wireless service provider. We had 17,000 full-service stores and 98,000 for prepay replenishment, which, of course, in that area, convenience is key.  

Our scale is a tremendous opportunity for efficiency and quality in the customer service area too. Customer service is a key differentiator for our business, just as network is a key differentiator. In the last two years, we've invested very heavily in customer service. We've consolidated our number of centers. Although we have expanded the number of employees, we've created desktop tools for our reps, reduced the number of billing systems we have, invested significantly in sales training. We have standardized price points from across the country. You heard earlier that we are a company that has come from about 20 other companies and as you might guess, in getting price plans and billing systems in sync across the country has been a major effort (sic). I'm pleased to say that we are there at this point and it's creating significant cost advantages for us.  

Our worry-free guarantee is still unique in the industry and the reason customers site for staying with us. This focus on customer service is paying off in customer satisfaction that we see, which we measure very carefully, and also in third-party recognition. As you may know, in '03, we won top honors in J.D. Power's National Customer Care Survey.  

I mentioned ARPU as an area for continued focus and something that I have not been satisfied with, so our third initiative is what you see on this slide, increased ARPU. While we are not satisfied with the absolute number, the good news is we have grown ARPU 1 percent a year for the past three years. So, we are encouraged by the trajectory of our number and also the fact that our trajectory is going in a different direction from the rest of the industry.  

Three main ways we are targeting higher ARPU this year -- first, high-value businesses and enterprise customers with local number portability. We believe we are at least initially seeing higher than average ARPU on the customers that are porting into Verizon wireless. Secondly, voice -- you'll see continued penetration of high-value America's Choice plans. Over three-quarters of the new customers are joining us on America's Choice price plans, and more than half of our customer base is currently on America's Choice.  

The other area for growing ARPU, of course, is data, which, as Doreen pointed out, has grown significantly to 3 percent in the fourth quarter of our revenue. But we also believe we've got some great upside in data.  

B2B -- incidentally, I will talk more specifically about the data opportunity in just a minute, but B2B is another critical area for driving ARPU. While we continue to strengthen our position in the business, Fortune 100 and 500 segments, and we believe, at this point, that we have roughly 25 percent of the wireless business market share. I said earlier brand preference ramped up rapidly this year among business customers, so this is one leg of our '04 strategy in B2B and will also expand and enhance business capabilities in voice, data and also in global communications. You'll see streamlined pricing and enhancements to our push-to-talk opportunity, including new devices in push-to-talk, which we will announce in the very near future.  

In the data area, broadband access we think will have a significant appeal to Enterprise and to business customers. They've told us they want higher broadband speeds and they've told us that they want higher speeds now. As many of our speakers have indicated, we have the demos next-door. I'm pleased to say that EV-DO is one of the things that we are demonstrating and I hope you get a chance to take a look. We also have, very shortly, the global phone (ph). It is being tested now. In fact, our Chief Technical Officer, Dick Lynch, uses the phone. We need a couple of firmware tweaks to the product, but we will very shortly be out with our global phone, so stay tuned. We will also have a global PC card this year, and we already have international messaging.  

Okay, back to our focus on data. In the fourth quarter, we mentioned that we reached 3 percent of our revenue, of service revenue. We intend to keep this momentum going with more products, applications and devices.  

In the Get It Now arena -- and I'm very pleased that we made this BREW decision some time ago -- but we are now up to almost 400 unique downloadable applications and new ones are added every single week.  

Instant Messaging we believe is a great example of a new application. We introduced Instant Messaging in November and already, it's our most popular download after ring tones. That's significant, particularly considering that $60 million was spent on ring tones alone last year in the United States, quadruple over the year 2002, and I think indicative of the fact that data is also applicable to the consumer marketplace.  

Driving the data revenue, our data usage has climbed dramatically also and continues to climb. So, data usage -- here we are. Look at the uptake in data. Two-way SMS is now up to 1.5 billion messages in the fourth quarter. That compares to 367 million in the fourth quarter of '02 and still growing. Downloads of games and ring tones on Get It Now are now 5 million a month, up from 200,000 in December of '02. Our easy-to-use picture messaging service has been a smash hit -- more than 9 million pictures sent in the fourth quarter, and the product was just introduced early in the third quarter. I think we've got some great upside with picture messages. 1X (indiscernible) usage on our network has more than tripled since this time one year ago.  

Okay. On this next slide, you see our roadmap for getting advanced devices, including EV-DO devices in the market, which we believe will stimulate data even further. In the coming months, we will have EV-DO devices, including additional PC cards and modem solutions for office use. A wide range of handheld devices are customized to present fun visual content like video, music and interactive gaming. You can see some of these at our EV-DO demo today, if you would like.  

So, we also have content for EV-DO devices. We are already far along in developing applications with our current content providers. All of our handsets today that we sell are 1X and SMS-capable, and the majority are now being sold in color, which stimulates the opportunity for gaming and other graphic-based content. This year, we will expand the line-up of camera phones, color sets and, as I mentioned earlier, push-to-talk sets and the global phone.  

Andy talked about cost efficiency and I think you can see from the way Andy got so excited about costs, he's really into this area. Our final initiative, then, for 2004 that I would like to talk about today is creating further cost efficiencies and value. We consistently have led the industry in cost efficiency. Cash expense per sub in the third quarter was 20 percent below our nearest competitor and 30 percent below the industry average.  

In 2004, we will maintain this lower-cost structure. We are focused on having a lower-cost structure than anyone else in the industry. We will do so by delivering even greater network efficiencies in the way we build our network and implement our network and manage our network, going forward. We have an opportunity to further consolidate facilities, mainly our repair and our refurbishment facilities. We have already completed most of our billing system and other IT system consolidations, but have some upside opportunity there also. We will continue to leverage our significant on-network footprint to gain cost advantage of carrying our own traffic and thereby avoiding roaming fees.  

Our initiatives for 2004 that I've just outlined, coupled with the model that I showed you early in this presentation, focused on strong fundamentals, sticking to the basics, disciplined execution, we believe position Verizon Wireless very well for continued quality, profitable growth and continued market leadership. If you would like -- Andy, if you would come back up onstage, we will take a few questions.  

Yes, sir?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: A question on the fixed line substitution -- you create that opportunity there. You have offered, last year, the ability to port your wireline number across to wireless. Can you talk about how the process is going? We hear it hasn't been taken up very much; there is a lot of time delay.  

How do you balance the opportunity for Verizon Wireless versus the risk to the wireline side of things? Obviously, if you don't take that line, it might go to another of your competitors, but you don't necessarily want to accelerate. We haven't really seen Verizon with national advertising saying, now you can take your wireline number to the best network -- wireless network. Is that something that we might see over the next several months?  

DENNY STRIEGL: So far, what we have seen is a very, very small number of wireline customers (indiscernible). We have also seen a handful of wireless customers porting to wireline. But the number is -- in our overall LNP numbers, it's very insignificant. About half of the overall numbers that have ported in from wireline have come to us from Verizon Wireless and half from other carriers but the number is insignificant.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Are you going to promote that more?  

DENNY STRIEGL: Will we promote going from wireline to wireless? I doubt it. We have no intention of doing that.  

Yes, sir?  

MIKE ROLLINS, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Mike Rollins from Smith Barney. I am wondering if you could talk a little bit about the family plan and what you're seeing in terms of the percent of gross, the percent of ending. It looked like that may have been a drag on ARPU if you take the voice component out of the total ARPU. How do you balance that against the enterprise opportunity to get deeper into the business sales for next year?  

DENNY STRIEGL: I will start this question and Andy, you can add to it. We did see a big up-take, Mike, in the family share plans. We are very pleased with that. The ARPU is just slightly less than average. Andy, if you would comment further?  

ANDY HALPERIN: Yes, I think there are two aspects on the family share. The first is the ARPU, which, as Denny says, is just slightly lower; the other is, hopefully, the churn benefit that will come through from those customers staying with us for longer. Consequently, really for us, it is a balance of making sure that we're not diluting the ARPU too much but nonetheless, we're getting the customer growth. I think you can see it in the numbers we have shown there that overall, including an increase in the share of our customer base that are on family share, we've got the ARPU to increase just slightly year-on-year and have got the significant increase in the customer base. I think we will stay on that sort of track for a while longer.  

DENNY STRIEGL: A couple more, Tom? How about two more?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Denny, I was wondering how much sampling you've done of your 37 million customers, and figure out what percentage of them do not have wireline phones? If you've done that, any demographics you can share on those customers.  

Then secondarily, if you can just talk about the rate of industry growth for '04, whether you think the net adds are going to be higher or lower than they were in '03? Thanks.  

DENNY STRIEGL: Overall, for the industry, let me address the second piece of that first. I think we will probably see, for the industry, about the same kind of growth that we saw in '03, particularly given some of the transition that some of our competitors are making of their systems.  

Relative to the number of customers we have that don't have wireline service, I don't have an answer for that. Do you (inaudible)?  

UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Sorry.  

DENNY STRIEGL: What else? Yes, sir?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I know this might be ancillary to the big picture, but just looking at the enterprise, could you just update us on how the push-to-talk products have been going in the fourth quarter and kind of the anticipated advancements you plan to make to that product going forward into '04?  

DENNY STRIEGL: Let me talk about advancements first. You'll see advancements coming up within the next couple of months that gives us a better speed on our push-to-talk. You'll also see the introduction of new products into the product line. Overall, we announced some time ago that we had 100,000 customers. We are growing our push-to-talk customer base and frankly, I'm committed, this year, not to get into the details of push-to-talk, given that it is such a small piece of our overall product line. We don't announce other products; we will not announce push-to-talk. I'll make you one promise; when we hit 10 million, we will tell you.  

Tom, there will be questions later too, or should we go? One more.  

JEFFREY WALKING HORSE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Jeffrey Walking Horse (ph), Banc of America Securities. I am wondering if you could talk a little more about the data strategy with respect to (indiscernible) EV-DO. I know you've announced a number of markets to be deployed this year. Will you be focusing more on, say, urban areas or suburban? What type of coverage can we expect in these markets? Also, if you could provide any color as to current data-usage patterns and ARPU with respect to data subs? Thank you.  

DENNY STRIEGL: Let me comment that, when we announced EV-DO a couple of weeks ago, we said that, over the course of the next two years, we would invest about $1 billion capital and we would also roll the product out in 100 cities. Initially, these will be as you would guess. I mean, these will be the largest cities in the U.S. We have, at this point, not announced specifically where we would go with EV-DO. I will tell you that we are finalizing our plans; we have begun deployment in several cities across the U.S. Rather than tip our hand to our competitor, what we are committed to do is announce, probably in bunches of 5, 10 cities, as we are ready to turn them on. You will this coming before the summer.  

On data spending, Andy, do you have a comment on that?  

ANDY HALPERIN: I think it depends very much on which data products you're talking about. Obviously, in the consumer market, the MMS and so on, the revenues are lower but nonetheless, usually enhancing to ARPU in the enterprise space, as Denny referred to earlier, which is where the focus will be more this year when EV-DO comes in. Then, clearly, the ARPUs are good on the Access product, particularly for the e-mail, Internet (indiscernible) well above the average for the Company.  

JEFFREY WALKING HORSE: On the Express Web (ph) or --? The current offering that you have on the 1X network as far as on a recurring basis, any comment on how many subs you might be using there (indiscernible) their ARPU?  

ANDY HALPERIN: We haven't actually published numbers on that but -- (Multiple Speakers). The ARPUs there are above the average for the business, so we will obviously be very focused upon that, going forward.  

DENNY STRIEGL: Well, thank you very much. I will turn it over to Doreen.  

DOREEN TOBEN: Thanks, Denny. Now, we're going to move to 2004. You'll notice that we're taking a different approach than in the years past for our guidance. Consistent with what has become the practice within our industry, for the most part, we're moving away from the detailed guidance that we used to provide. Going forward, we will provide information in a more general manner about future trends within the business, just as we have seen in the presentations today.  

As you heard from Larry, Denny and Kathy detail their plans, you now have an understanding of our playbook for 2004, which we expect to be another dynamic year. As I look at our plans, I feel very comfortable with our ability to execute on the strategies to achieve our goals.  

For revenue growth, we're looking at the continuation of the positive consolidated revenue growth we saw in 2003. We are targeting total consolidated revenue growth in the low single digits. We anticipate continued contribution from our growth areas in Wireless, DSL and Enterprise at the same time we deal with the secular industry issues that pressure our revenues.  

For capital, we have a range of 12 to 13 billion. You have heard (indiscernible) today of allocating resources to growth areas and opportunities to strengthen Verizon's position. We believe to ultimately grow the business at a faster rate. We believe these levels strike the right balance between a prudent level of spending and our traditional business areas while aggressively allocating resources to growth areas.  

Our focus remains to continue to primarily utilize free cash flow to reduce debt. While our focus has been on aggressive debt reduction during the past couple of years, we're moving to change some of our cash deployments while continuing to reduce debt. For example, in the area of funding requirements for some of the employee plans where we have been issuing shares, we will discontinue share issuance and instead utilize share buybacks for these requirements.  

Our overall share levels should be relatively flat as a result of this change. We are making this change because of the significant progress that we've made on the balance sheet over the past two years and we feel that the time is right.  

Capital -- this next chart just breaks out the 12 to 13 billion of capital by segment. As I step through the segments, you'll see that we're really at the upper end of this range. Wireline capital will be essentially flat and within the range of 6.5 to 7 billion, as we absorb the spending on FTTP and Voice-over-IP in our program.  

Wireless capital will be in the range of 5 to 5.5 billion. EV-DO is the primary growth driver here with about 500 million of capital, but we are also allocating capital to sustain our award-winning network advantages in anticipation of another strong year of customer and usage growth.  

Finally, we have about 500 million in spending for the rest of our business, primarily in international, which is flat year to year. So that's the capital picture.  

We would be happy to spend more capital if we see demand significantly picking up. On the other hand, we will maintain the same capital discipline that has resulted in reduced capital levels and focus on capital efficiency.  

Let me finish up here with some specifics on pension and OPEB, which is an area with a lot of moving parts that can significantly change income contributions. This chart shows our assumptions for 2004. As you can see, we're maintaining the return on asset assumption of 8.5 percent and the discount rate has been reduced to 6.25 from 6.75, consistent with the interest levels at the end of the year. Beyond these factors, we also have impact from the retirement program, labor contracts and prescription drug changes, among others. The bottom line here is that we anticipate a net decline in the pension and OPEB income in the range of 23 to 25 cents per share from 2003 to 2004, driven by all of these issues.  

So, what was about a 5 cent contribution to earnings in 2003 will swing to about an 18 to 22 cent cost per share in 2004. This change includes the accounting change for retiree medical cap, as well as the effect of the Medicare prescription drug changes. The Medicare changes will provide about a 4 to 5 cent benefit in 2004.  

Other factors affecting the change are the downsizing impacts, which result in more retirees and therefore more OPEB costs, as well as a lower asset base to generate pension returns because of the lump sum payout that we just did in January.  

Finally, pension expenses increased because of the increase in the pension bands as part of the labor contract agreement.  

Before I turn it over to Ivan to wrap up, let me close by saying that what you've seen here today is a team that is focused on executing and delivering value in a competitive environment. We are focused on allocating our resources to perform in the marketplace, generate a return on capital and transform our asset base. We continually evaluate the assets and the properties in our portfolio for strategic fit and financial performance. You have seen us exit investments that we did not feel met our criteria. You'll see us continue to get out of investments or markets that don't meet our standards, freeing up cash to strengthen our balance sheet and reallocate resources to growth areas. We believe that strengthening our assets on these key variables is the best way to create long-term, sustainable value for our shareowners.  

As you have heard from Larry, Kathy and Denny, we have a business model that results in focused execution that produces consistent results and gives me confidence on our plans for this year.  

With that, I'm going to turn it back to Ivan.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay. Doreen, thank you. We are down to the last module for the morning. I'd like to just make a few observations about what you've heard and give you a strategic framework about how I see the business and how all of this comes together.  

As you listened to our senior team, I hope that you have drawn just a couple of conclusions. First, we are a focused, results-oriented senior leadership team with a sense of accountability about what needs to be done and a sense of urgency about where we need to go. We believe that Verizon is a company that does what we set out to do. That's because we have people in charge with the experience and character to execute. We are pushing their businesses to transform, to grow and to break free of the impediments of internal and external that have constrained us in the past. The result is that all of our business units, Wireless, Wireline and Information Services, are further down the transformation curve than others in our sector.  

Second, we are operationally strong across all our segments. Obviously, you see it most dramatically in wireless today, where we are the market leader by almost any magic. Keep in mind, though, that the business model for landline is exactly the same as it is for wireless, in our view, and capable of producing the same separations between us and our competitors that you see in Verizon Wireless.  

From the day that we announced our merger more than five years ago, our objective has always been to operate from the position of market strength. I think what you've heard today is that we're hitting our stride as a merged company and that our superior assets, combined with our solid strategies and execution, are producing the competitive differentiation across the board on which long-term market leadership is built. As you also see, we have a never-ending desire to continue to improve in every area of our business.  

Third, we are also financially strong and are using our multi-billion dollar free cash flow to get even stronger. As you heard today, we are investing in technology that supports higher gross revenue streams, improving our balance sheet to enhance our strategic flexibility and give us more options for returning value to shareholders.  

We are very committed to using our assets to great value for shareholders. We have, frankly, lagged behind customers as beneficiaries from the transformation of our industry.  

Now, to the extent that dividends are an important part of value creation, Verizon has paid about $12.5 billion in dividends over the past three years, about roughly the same amount as SBC. In fact, these two companies, Verizon and SBC, account for almost 75 percent of all the dividends paid out by the telecom sector. In fact, Verizon and SBC are among the top dividend paying companies in the entire fortune 500. So obviously, we have a business model capable of providing stable, long-term returns to shareholders.  

But dividend policy is only part of the value-creation equation. We are also focused on what we see as the other real, long-term drivers of valuation for our company. You heard them this morning. That is long-term profitable growth, healthy cash flows and a strong balance sheet. We will continue to use our financial strength to improve our competitive position, improve our strategic flexibility, and accelerate our overall growth rate. As we generate solid organic growth, we will continue to evaluate our current dividend policy, which we believe is the right prescription for shareowner-value creation.  

Taken together, the plans you heard today represent a solid strategy for organic growth for our company. We can do this as a stand-alone business. Many of our plans will generate solid financial results this year. Others, especially our infrastructure investments, have a longer horizon that could be helped by a recovering economy. Basically, we like our position in the market. We are confident in our ability to continue to transform ourselves to growth and we believe, with our continuous focus on productivity and improvement in productivity, we will yield improving earnings for Verizon over the coming years.  

Now, of course, this is a restructuring industry and we're always looking for opportunities to shift more of our weight and momentum (indiscernible) growth. As we move forward, we will be taking a hard look at a whole range of actions to get us in front of the curve in terms of the regulatory, technological and competitive imperatives of our business. This might include more aggressive debt reduction, portfolio rebalancing to improve returns, achieving a different mix of assets with higher growth and earnings profile. This could mean sale of assets; it could mean sale of Access (inaudible) and yes, even mergers and acquisitions.  

Since M&A (ph) is once again in the news in telecom, let me just say a word or two about how we look at all of this. When the big merger between JPMorgan Chase and Bank One was announced a couple of weeks ago, the New York Times said, and I quote, "If history is any guide, at least one surefire bet the house (indiscernible) will emerge." Then it went onto say, "And that would be Citigroup!" That's how we feel about the current mating dance for AWE. There is no question that the wireless segment has too many players. Any transaction that makes the industry structure slightly more rational is a good thing. In our view, the company that will enjoy the most immediate benefits from a more stable operating environment is the market leader, Verizon Wireless. While others in their industries combine and recombine, the leaders tend to march to their own drum. Citigroup keeps being Citigroup; Wal-Mart keeps being Wal-Mart; Pfizer keeps being Pfizer. Verizon will continue to be Verizon. This is not to say we will never do any deals,, just that we will do deals not to play catch-up but to extend the lead, consolidate our growth and accelerate the transformation of our asset base. This is the same philosophy that we will use in Wireline and Directory as we consider any M&A activity, a pretty big difference from our standpoint and a prerogative that only comes if you've done the foundational work to build the market-leading company. We believe Verizon is that company. We have the management, the assets, the strategies and the record of execution to prove it.  

We think you'll see the gap between us and our peers begin to widen and we really believe that, over the next couple of years, you will see momentum building in real earnings growth that will return key value to shareholders over that period.  

I think we've come to the end of our formal presentations. I would like to make another plea before I take your questions. I know you're all experts in this industry but in my mind, you won't be until you spend a half-hour in that room. I think it's important to just touch some of those products and services to make sure you see where we believe this industry is heading, going forward.  

Having said that, we have finished early, so if you would like, I suspect -- do you have any questions with me? I suspect you might.  

I'd like to get a couple of fresh face but since Adam's hand is up first, real quick -- first in your class, right upfront, sitting here all morning, I guess I will have to take it, Adam.  

ADAM QUINTON: Thanks, Ivan. I'll take the opportunity to ask (indiscernible) two questions. The first one, just going back to your opening remarks, you mentioned that there could be some regulatory upsides through the year. I wonder if you could handicap some of those for us?  

Also, is there anything maybe below the radar screen that you draw to our attention? For example, is there a possibility that we could have some agreements state by state that would shift retail, as well as wholesale rates? That is sort of outside the context of the TRO.  

Secondly, there's obviously a spectrum of views out there on the whole issue of fiber-to-the-premise across the major ILECs. You've got big notes about recently saying that (indiscernible) doesn't even fiber is the answer; it's going to be (indiscernible) 16 or some wireless solution. You've got the other two big RBOCs who are sort of leery of fiber-to-the-premise on cost grounds. Obviously, Verizon is staking out a position ahead of the pack, much more committed. So I wonder if you could give us your thoughts on what you believe is the right way to go -- rather clarify what is the right way to go, particularly in terms of ROI, because the other guys are saying it's a good idea in theory but the ROI just isn't there.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: If you only get one question, which is it? (LAUGHTER).  

ADAM QUINTON: The second one!  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I will answer the first! (LAUGHTER). I think, on the regulatory front, here's what we'd like you to think about with the questions you raised. Certainly, Adam, we have ramped up our activities. If you notice, Larry's entire strategy for regulatory is appeal to TRL (ph). I think that, if I made a mistake in '03, me personally, it's that I allowed the regulatory issues to dominate my time and, in effect, get in the way of really changing the momentum that we need for growth.  

So the answer to your question is between Tom talking and Bill Barr, they will get measured by (indiscernible) as to how successful they are. While I love them both, we need to do better in '04 than we did in '03.  

What are they doing in '04 that I think is going to reap some rewards? There will be a state by state assault on every (indiscernible) we can find, every UNE (indiscernible) we can find (inaudible) make sure that we litigate and we've already started to see that. (indiscernible) of the court appeals and you can handicap that all you want but I think the news in that regard is that the SEC is not right on everything. They will have to redo some of those plans that they have. I think there's a string of other regulatory issues.  

I'm looking at all this upside, Adam, and if I had one concluding remark in which my team is going to be measured big time, is that, rather than declare victory because you UNE rates go up a little bit here and (inaudible) very positive. I want to make sure we insulate the investments that our trade presidents talked about today, from bad regulatory policies, so we can generate the returns to shareholders, going forward.  

Let me just mention, since I was only kidding, I will answer your question on fiber because I think, in our mind, this comes up a core of what we believe as a company. You saw and heard from Larry and Denny and Kathy that we are a big believer in investing in our business. You've got to get a return on that, okay? We don't believe that we are a business that just resells other products or that, in effect, just packages in bundles, stuffing everybody else. You get no long-term control over your customer relationship and your margins if you do that. So, (indiscernible) a differentiation for us. We built out our wireless network; we've built out our enterprise network; we are not reselling someone else's IP nationwide enterprise network.  

I think that the way you should look at this is we have challenged Larry to make sure that all the capital that we give him is balanced against maintaining his margins, being success-based and reallocating the resources that he has today. So, this is not a blind leap into a pool, but this is absolutely, without question, a firm commitment on the part of every senior Officer in our company that believes it's our responsibility to create the market of the future; they way you're going to do that is by building out your network.  

Now, we can get into he said, she said, whomever said. I would just make the following points -- we were the first into LD. People said, I don't know if that's a good market. Everybody's into the market, okay? We were the first to decide we were going to make the net network a differentiator in wireless; I think that plan is working out well.  

DSL is a good product. We feel we could always improve our penetration and growth, but in the long-term, to be dominant and pre-eminent with our customers, we're going to need more broadband, both on the enterprise as well as the customer side of the interface.  

So, I think, Adam, I'd like you to take away from this that we have absolutely no fear about moving down the broadband path but we will be conscious of trying to make sure that we do it in a responsible and fiscally-sound manner.  

Okay, others? Yes. Tell me your first name and your last name.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (inaudible).  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, I got you. Tell everybody where you're from! (LAUGHTER).  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was waiting for this. With regard to our LNP, I heard Doreen mention that Verizon Wireless is clearly a winner in that market, on a net basis, but on a gross basis, I think industry-wide, it's been somewhat underwhelming, the porting in and pointing out. Do you think we should start looking at LNP as maybe a overhyped kind of Y2K type of thing, or do you think there's people on the sidelines? There has been a lot of press about the difficulty with porting and people are kind of waiting to get all the kinks out before they port. Do you think there is any pent-up demand, or we should start thinking about it as maybe it was just kind of overhyped?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: We were never the ones that would ever put a qualifier on whether it's hyped or not. When we talked about this back at the ranch, I think Denny put his finger on it on one of his charts; and I think Andy did the same thing. We have built an engine that seeks to grow and now, we've reached the momentum level of 1.5 million net adds in the fourth quarter. How much of that is NPP is irrelevant because, in our view, the potential to win those customers was there anyway.  

So I think the issue is, if you have the best network and great distribution and great customer relationships, LNP only benefits us. So will there be more customers switching back and fourth? I suspect there will be simply because the other carriers have not yet finished -- their customers have not yet finished all their contracts and if their contracts come up, I think we have a great opportunity to do that, but customers are coming to us all the time. So you won't see us continue to -- even try to generate measurements around or metrics around LNP. What we care about is the total growth and the total financial integration of new growth into our business.  

Do you have any more? Are you okay with that? The man said he's okay. Let me tell you, whatever he says is good!  

Okay, yes.  

JEFF BRAY, ANALYST: It's Jeff Bray (ph) with David (indiscernible) and Company. I Hate to do it, but to drag you back into the regulatory issues, can you talk about whether or not you think you can make progress at the state level in eliminating UNE-P through the process that the FCC created? I guess, given what is going on in the District Court, whether or not that even matters any more?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, Bill is here and so is Tom Bartlett. We can turn this into a regulatory discussion, which maybe it's not a bad idea to ask Bill to comment. Again, let me just say this -- if you listen carefully to Larry, over the long-term, we're going to work our way through this regulatory process in a fashion that's going to insulate our customers and our shareholders from some of these goofy policies. In the interim, we will fight like heck to make sure we get a fair return on the things that are going on at this point. But Bill is here. This is the only question we're going to do on regulatory (inaudible).  

BILL BARR, EVP, GENERAL COUNSEL, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Well, it's been made clear we're not booming a progress in any of these plans that have been discussed but I do think it this year is a year where there will be some progress in bringing about moderation of the UNE-P and telric (ph) machine.  

As Ivan said, on the state level, we will be going after prices and what is a legitimate UNE-P? On the pricing side, there are some indications that some of our states are open to increases and adjusting the telric (ph) rates and we're going to play that out in a number of states. But as Ivan said, we're, in the course of the year, going to mount aggressive challenges against the prices. As you know, the Supreme Court ruled that telric (ph) was not, on its face, unconstitutional but there were no depreciation and cost-of-capital built in and no specific rates that were under review. Now, we have those rates and we're going to be challenging those rates.  

At the same time, we are also going to be pushing the FCC to change the telric rules. As you know, there are several pending proceedings at the FCC where they themselves have called into question some of the assumptions built into telric (ph). On the identity of an UNE, that is a little bit in limbo, given the status of the litigation. Those of you who heard about the case, it's likely that that's going to be thrown back to the FCC. A number of our states have indicated they are interested in starting the process of knocking out some of the elements, such as switching, and so we see the states becoming -- some states are pushing that line and ultimately, we think the TRL (ph) will end up starting a process of withdrawing elements from the platform.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: You know, if there's an overriding policy that I'd like you to at least consider as you think about this, building on what Bill said, is that the market, the industry, is changing and evolving much faster than the static model that the regulators thought they built two or three years ago with all of these rules. So regardless of whose side you are on and regardless of what any of the people say about it, the total picture is not anywhere near what the regulators thought the model would look like. In fact, it's not producing any of the benefits.  

So I think, as states begin to look at this, they won't say this publicly, but they are going to all look for an out to figure out how to get on the bandwagon of where the industry is going rather than consistently tie everybody back to the traditional way of trying to reallocate the old circuit switch network, which is really going to be a thing of the past anyway over time.  

Okay, yes? Simon? A question in the back, I think. Your name? Where are you from? Who? (inaudible). You have to identify yourself.  

JASON BAZINET, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Jason Bazinet from JP Morgan. I know DSL is a small part of your business, but it seems like the people that buy broadband are the same ones that buy vertical features, second lines and wire insurance. (inaudible) assume that DSL may be the second most important thing, strategically, maybe behind wireless for you. While the category is growing and footprints are expanding and pricing is coming down, the results seem to have been fairly stable, which really means '03 was a worse year than '02. Can you just comment on what's going wrong in DSL and how important you think that is to fix in '04?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I think it's important, when you talk about a product, that you look at the category. Our focus in '03 was to make sure that we had accretive average revenue per account, that we sold Freedom, that we penetrated long distance, and that we began to build some momentum in DSL.  

If your question is do we view DSL more the center of the chessboard in '04, I think we would all agree with that. But we're not unhappy with the -- I think the stability that we try to create in the category of consumer (sic). Now, I do agree with you that as you go out into '04, there will be more aggressive and more, I think, sophisticated bundles that will include better DSL, as Larry said, with MSN Premium. We will be able to add more feature and function. We now have the DirecTV bundle going with that, so I would like to answer your question simply by saying that it's not a question of what went wrong; it's a question of what our priorities were. I think we have significantly changed those priorities.  

I would make one other point. We made a big effort -- and it's a judgment we made -- to maintain margins as best we can. We didn't want to push product out there at low margins and create high churn, so we gained some experience. I think I would agree with the premise of your question that DSL is important and I would also say I think we've got the balance now, heading forward, that we feel comfortable with. Would you add anything to that? Nope, the man says it's okay. All right, Simon.  

SIMON FLANNERY: I'd like to combine to your comments on -- I think the word was portfolio rebalancing. You mentioned Access lines and a few other things. Can you touch on directories and potentially, your international assets? Maybe another way to answer it is (sic), what do you consider your core assets, the must-haves, to be competitive in the long run?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Setting aside a few of the kind of equity investments we have for a second, which are things that the timing (indiscernible) consider, everything we have is core but everything doesn't perform. So, I think one of the things that we are more willing to do in '04 than we've done in '03, Simon, is to take a look at our business, where we have to invest, as Adam had asked, and make sure that we invest it in markets where we can get a reasonable return. So if we have underperforming whatever it is -- and I don't want to use one example because it could be (indiscernible) but if we have underperforming assets in a state, we have underperforming products, I think we could be more aggressive. Because when you think about our company the way Doreen has encouraged us to think about it, we have emerging growth, obviously big-time in wireless; we see real good growth in enterprise and in broadband. What we don't want to see are some of the traditional parts of the business weigh down the portfolio growth. So, I think we're going to be more aggressive in walking through that.  

So the answer wasn't intended to give you a specific, but it is something that our Board has asked us to do and it's something that, over the next three or four months, we will take a close look at. You know, the math. If you could remove some of the underperforming assets, you can improve the overall math, the growth rate goes up and you look a lot better -- get rid of some -- improve you balance sheet and so on and so forth. So I think you'll see us a lot more focused on generating better returns so shareowners will see the benefit of this.  

Yes. Anything else? Yes. Oh, this is a first, you know. Is that Richard? Okay!  

RICHARD TALBOT: Ivan, you have talked a little bit about voice-over-IP and the plans to start rolling out in the second quarter. I think Larry had a lot of that in his presentation. Could you talk about where you see that going over the next maybe handful of years? How much do you think, of the mass market in your territories, migrates to voice-over-IP? How much of that you get versus cable, versus third-party people like (indiscernible)? That's it.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I will give you the two lines and I will ask Larry to add to that. I think, when we sit around planning sessions to think about this, what we want to make sure we do is we remind the world, our customers in particular, that when we put our foot in the marketplace on a new technology like this -- and by the way, we have been doing new technology rollouts for a long time -- it's important that we get the balance right, the quality right. We have an obligation to do this at higher margin levels than new entrants do; you expect that. So I think what you will find us doing is rolling this out carefully, strategically, making sure we hit the markets that are most competitive.  

But the other objective we have when we do that is to find a way to grow the market. We don't approach a market from a standpoint of it's binary. We win; they lose. We want to make sure we grow the pie, we get our fair share and there will always be some competitors.  

I think the other piece of the formula that John Killian covered is what gives us great comfort in our approach to the market is we will take enormous cost out and generate the productivity to fund it. Having said that broad structure, if Larry wants to tell you his deployment plan, let him go ahead and tell you. Go-ahead.  

LARRY BABBIO: I won't tell you the whole plan but I will tell you some of it. We do think it's important, as I said earlier, to transform the network. So if you just get a sense of where we're going from Access to transport to switch, most of our transport today, especially at the enterprise level, is all completely optical, obviously fiber. We think that the enterprise customer, as well as most of the mass market, is served very well on that network. We told you the Access network is going to probably be -- in the next five years, we will probably get 60 percent of our revenue base on fiber in the Access network; that's at the consumer level, I might add.  

If you want to talk about packet -- and if I just think packet-switching over the course of the next two years -- probably by the end 2005, say early 2006, my objective would be about half of our LD traffic would wind up on the packet network. So that's kind of the rate of deployment that you'll probably see over -- whether that moves by 5 or 10 percent by a little bit is not rally that critical. But you can see that it's going to go from relatively little to pretty much half the network, on the LD network, in the course of 2, 2.5 years, something like that. That's kind of a sense of where we're going.  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, a couple more. Bill?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Ivan, we saw your wireline margins go down 500 basis points sort of Q4 to Q4. We've just been talking about all the savings that were planned in 2004. You've laid off or your workforces down about 8 percent and yet, we have flat margins for 2004. Now, that's much better than what we saw in 2003. Will you have to keep laying off that magnitude of percent in the coming years to just keep margins flat?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, there's a couple of ways for me to answer that. Because you mixed both sides of the business, so I just looked at the whole picture for second. I think what we did in the voluntary downsizing was tap into what I would think is a pent-up demand for us to, in effect, permit people to opt out. I think Larry also covered the fact that we had been working very hard on lots of new electronic systems to replace the works.  

Now, as you go forward, here is what I would say -- I would think the structure of our business, both in wireless and in wireline and to some extent in directory, will take advantage of all new technology. So the issue is we will be consistently be replacing manual labor with electronic-based. Now, at the same time, we should be growing our market share. So therefore, what the headcount will be is something we will work through because we will be able to redeploy people. But I think, on a unit basis, we will be in a never-ending drive to increase productivity per employee -- no question in my mind. I think the fiber deployment will create a completely different cost structure. I believe that, in wireless, you get the EV-DO (inaudible) different issues and there's different opportunities. So I take this as a positive. This is not an issue of reducing force to maintain margins. It's reducing force to expand our addressable market and create a cost structure that lets us compete.  

Now, I'll allow you to do the math, so you listen to all of this and say, how does the math work? I still see your revenue growth (inaudible) modest. Here's I think the issue. You all know this (indiscernible) secular changes. We have lots of price competition; we have an irrational industry structure in both the wireless and wireline side. What we feel that we have done is maintain our head as high as we can. If you noticed in our attitude this morning, we believe we've tried to -- best we can -- handicap the risk to all these changes and believe that our margins could be stable. We don't for a second believe that if you go out in '05, '06 and '07, that we won't start growing a lot more. So, I think that is sort of -- if there's a juncture here -- you know, the last four or five months, there's been so much panic in the industry, every time one person shows up with one product with five cents worth of revenues, somebody writes, "The industry is going out of business!"  

I think one of the reasons we wanted to get you here this morning is just to give you some grounding, as Tom earlier, that true, we have to deal (inaudible) with all of these secular issues. Whether margins are up 40 basis points or down 30 or pretty stable, what we are building an engine (sic) for future expansion of our capacity to grow. I think, hopefully, that will help.  

Headcount -- just if you want to know the answer, headcount shouldn't be drastically different in '04. It can be up a little bit, down a little bit but the fact is we're not looking at another massive downsizing. But we will see, in '05, '06 and '07, a continuation of the restructuring of our workforce.  

Yes? Over here. Blue shirt, no tie! We don't discriminate, see!  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: I think you made a lot of lenders kind of nervous when you suggested that some of the traditional opco (ph) lines could be those that are possibly let go in any kind of rebalancing. As you look to rebalance the portfolio of assets under the umbrella, does that mean you're also going to look at rebalancing how those are funded and do more shifting at the parent company (inaudible) other assets that haven't been at the forefront of funding? What about the existing debt in some of these operating companies?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I didn't mean to make you nervous; I just wanted to state the fact that we are looking at it. I don't think I would read into my comments that we have made any internal decisions to treat the assets any differently. I think I did start out the answer by saying they are all core. But in any business of our size, some assets are going to produce better returns than others, so we're going to take a critical look at. I haven't announced any changes to (indiscernible) anything associated with the existing business. But hopefully, you would expect us to take a look at it.  

Question? Okay, a couple more. The lady right here.  

SUSAN KALLA, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY GROUP: Susan Kalla from FBR. Could you give us your view on consolidation in Wireless and if that happens, when it happens, how it will affect your business?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: You have enough courage to ask that? The consolidation in Wireless? I will say what we've always said. Our view is that there are too many players; we believe that some consolidation is a good idea. As far as we are concerned, we believe that we are well positioned to benefit by consolidation. So I think, as I said earlier this morning, the auction of AT&T as I read about it, I think it's a good thing. We, Verizon Wireless, are not interested in making a bid on AT&T; it wouldn't fit; it wouldn't work. So I think, from our standpoint, Susan, I think it's pretty good.  

Okay? Is that Frank? I used to be able to see you. (LAUGHTER).  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: When you look at your growth opportunities, both in Enterprise and Wireless -- and I guess Wireless Enterprise as well -- it seems that the targets, the companies that are perhaps the targets in the case of Wireless, HT Wireless (ph) (indiscernible) case of Enterprise, AT&T wireless, both have taken a position where there are going to try to retain share by matching price. AT&T (indiscernible) on the and their behavior and their in the market seems to indicate that -- on the Wireless side, I've heard a lot of anecdotal evidence of AT&T Wireless preemptively cutting price, giving big handset subsidies or Blackberry subsidies to in order to keep customers in place. What's your expectation or view on the potential that a lot of the opportunity and growth may get eroded by price erosion by essentially incumbents taking prices down?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I can give Denny and Larry that question but let me answer it, for this reason, because, frankly, I'd like the audience to understand this -- the compact that the three of us have about all of this. The operating units will come into Doreen and I and the rest of our senior team and say, we need to compete on price. If they have to, they will. But the more important issue is they compete on value.  

Let's take Wireless. If you want to cut your price, you have change your handsets and you have a problem with network coverage, fine -- cut your price. There's nothing we can do about that. So, I think, when we feel there is an apples-to-apples comparison, simply the statement by the competitor cutting their price, I don't think is a comparable issue.  

Now, in certain markets, you compete, in certain (indiscernible). It's a much more narrowly focused issue than somebody deciding, across the board. I think it's exactly the same thing with Enterprise. It shouldn't be any surprise to anybody for certain accounts of the IXCs (ph) have some reach in coverage that (sic), no matter how much we cut prices, it wouldn't make a difference because they can serve the customers. But where we have the advantage is when you can add to our wide area metropolitan networks and use the cost structure, as Larry said. Where he have to be competitive in price, we will, but for the most part, I think we offer better value.  

So, I think, Frank, it's -- to me, this is not a declaration of war when they say that, and I think we're going to leverage our abilities to take advantage of our current network and our current position.  

I would say that I know our Enterprise team is here. They believe that we are very much competitive on price in the same accounts where we and the carriers (inaudible) compete for those customers.  

Now, if I make one last comment on this Enterprise issue -- we don't look at the Enterprise market as having to compete with the carriers to every account in the entire space. Our strategy is, if we can reduce their addressable market around the customers where we have a shot it doing that, we can generate some good returns, build momentum and then decide what to do over the course of the future and how to expand our coverage and our reach. Okay? So I hope that -- (indiscernible). Two more and then we are done.  

You, sir? Right there? Did somebody over here have their hand up? I was going to give you a chance.  

PHILIP OLSON, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Philip Olson (ph) from UBS. First, on the Wireless side, if given the opportunity to own 100 percent of Verizon Wireless, is there a way that you can structure a transaction that's consistent with your earlier comments of continued balance sheet improvement?  

Secondly, towards the end of last year, Moody's put out a press release kind of questioning your longer-term financial support or commitment to Verizon New York, the operating company. Is there a step or action that you can take explicitly showing support or ongoing support for Verizon New York without lessening your negotiating or bargaining position with state PUCs?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: You managed to cover the entire waterfront in those two questions. I think the issue (indiscernible) -- let's do the second question first. We haven't decided what we're going to do in any of the -- in how to deal with the Moody's issue. We are sensitive to it. What we have done, by the way, is tracked up the Moody's report up to the Public Service Commission and really started working aggressively to explain that New York State is a little bit of an outlier with respect to the rest of the local operating entities. Tom Bartlett and Bill Barr are working through that right now.  

The answer is, we are focused on that; we're not particularly happy with Moody's actions, but they had reasons to do it and so we will address that. As we decide what to do, we will, of course, tell you.  

I think, on the first question, I think I will state the obvious -- that if -- if, and I'm not going to speculate on whether -- but if our partner, Vodafone, chose a different path, we would absolutely be willing to acquire the rest of Verizon Wireless. Our objective would be to do it in a fashion that would be either neutral or over a reasonable period of time, not lose our momentum in building our balance sheet. So that's our objective. But certainly, to gain access to the potential growth that comes out of that, we would do that.  

Now, having said that, it's really sort of a very hypothetical question, because the partnership we have today, with all the speculation and with everybody liking to write about it, working (sic). The reason it's working (indiscernible) look at the charts and it's been working for four years. So it's going to take a lot for Vodafone to make a decision about what it wants to do. You all read Arun's statement yesterday, so I would suggest, rather than me miss a (indiscernible) here or two, go read his statement. If and when they are ready to make a different judgment, they will do that. If not, we are very comfortable with being able to drive value in Verizon Wireless.  

Yes, sir?  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: (indiscernible) Hussein (ph) from (indiscernible) Capital. If you look beyond the current volumes with UNE-P in the existing regulatory regime, some would argue that cable is already emerging as the real long-term threat to your industry. You already compete pretty aggressively on the consumer data market. It seems competition on the voice and video side is just around the corner if it's not already there. My question would be -- a, what do you see as your core advantages against the cable platform? B, over the long-term, do think the two industries can really coexist in a duopoly, or do you think we are in for some years of pricing (indiscernible)?  

IVAN SEIDENBERG: I think, if I may answer your question in a broad way -- meaning that, specific differentiators, but let's deal with it. There's no question that I think cable will develop some capability to offer a suite of services in the local market.  

Let's look at a couple of things. We have 80 years of experience in vertical markets, well beyond just the entertainment business. We serve the business customer, so we have opportunities to integrate products and services at home and work. That's not to say cable can't do that, but it's going to require a lot of work for them to do that. So right now, if you think about the success they're having with cable modems, it's because it's an add-on to their existing network. It easy; there's no content, and it's a product that fills a need in the marketplace. I think we changed the game. We get to 50 to 100 megabits; we integrate it with work; we go to different vertical markets; we have a wireless capability.  

I think the other issue is, when you look at the infrastructure behind all that -- the people, the network, the provisioning, the advertising, the procurement -- we have a gigantic productivity opportunity. So, I think, in the long-term, we will be able to offer all of that plus, we think, robust interactive services over this.  

We are not worried about cable competing because I think cable provides probably a greater depth (indiscernible) to the UNE regime than it does to us. Our job is to take what Larry is doing and what Denny is doing, expand the market as fast as we can, recognizing there will be competition in the market that will win some share. Cable -- I don't think, based on what I've seen, believes they can replace what we do, but they can offer some valuable products and services. We will be made focused on making sure we do that.  

I think we do have a lot of differentiation in the way we think about approaching the customer on this and actually, we are ready for the game. We're willing to get there because I think the opportunity for delivering value creation across all of these services -- and let's not forget our electronic businesses and Yellow Pages and directory also offers another benefit in the process. So hopefully, it gives you a place to start thinking about.  

Did I miss anything? Good. I got approval from Larry and that is okay.  

I appreciate the fact you came here this morning. Go write nice things. Go next door and we will see you soon. Okay.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications
   NS
ntra : Transcript | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040212e01t000e5
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  Verizon  Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,328 words
   PD
25 October 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Judy (ph) and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Verizon communications conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks. There will be a question and answer period. If you'd like to ask a question at this time, simply press star and then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press the pound key. I will now turn the call over to Mr. John Diercksen. Sir, you may begin. 

   TD
 JOHN DIERCKSEN, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, VERIZON: Good morning and we will come to Verizon Communications third quarter 2002 earnings conference call. My name is John Diercksen, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. And thank you for joining us today. With me this morning is Doreen Toben, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who review our third quarter earnings performance, Ivan Seidenberg our President and Chief Executive Officer, is also with us and will be available during the question and answer period. The (ph) materials which will be used have been available on our web site since 8:00 a.m. this morning. If you are unable to retrieve these materials, they are also available through our fax on demand at 1-800-329-7310. We intend to complete today's call in about an hour. The replay of this conference call can be accessed directly from Verizon's investor information web site at www.verizon.com/investor, where we are currently web casting this call. The call will also be rebroadcast for 48 hours, beginning at 12:00 p.m. today. The dial in number is 1-800-642-1687, and the conference ID number is 5545283. I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor Statement. For this presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements as contained in the private Securities Exchange Act Securities Exchange Act of 1995. Discussion of those factors that may affect future results is contained in our filing with the Securities Exchange Commission. We continue to remain in the quiet period with respect to Verizon Wireless and therefore are limited in our comments with respect to any forward-looking statements With that, I'd like to turn this over to Doreen right now, who will review our third quarter results, followed by the Q&A session. 

 DOREEN TOBEN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CFO, VERIZON: Thanks, John Diercksen. I'm pleased to review the details of our third quarter with you. From our release, you can see we are continuing to meet our objective and achieve good results in spite of a very challenging regulatory and economic environment in the third quarter, we had strong operating metrics, particularly in growth areas, and successful introduction of new products. Let's cover the highlights. I'll pick a few. Revenue growth turned slightly positive after declining in the first half, demonstrating our diverse revenue profile, and operating income grew 5.5% and our EBITDA margins increased by 40 basis points to 43.2%. In our growth areas, Verizon Wireless delivered another superb quarter with an industry leading 1.1 million organic retail net ad and increasing profitability. In Telcom, we're delivering on our growth initiative with 840,000 new LD customers and 155,000 net ads and DSL, both on track to meet our year-end objectives. The next slide shows several financial metrics. I should note we have adjusted prior period segment results for the recently completed access line sales in Alabama, Missouri and Kentucky for purposes of comparability. At the consolidated level, restatements have been made to line items above operating income. Prior period earnings, however, remain the same as previously reported. For the quarter, we delivered an EPS of 77 cents or 2.7% higher than 2001, and net consensus. We remain on track to meet our full-year guidance for EPS. We've got a number of metrics which highlight our cash improvement this year, but one in particular is to look at cash flow per share a year-to-date basis. Cash flow per share defined as cash flow from operation, less cap ex cap ex but before dividends is $2.91 so far this year. This compares with only 23 cents for the first nine months of last year, obviously a significant improvement. Verizon Wireless was a big contributor to revenue growth in the quarter, increasing to 5 billion. Wireless revenues now account for nearly 30% of total consolidated revenues. EBITDA of 7.4 billion grew by 1.4%, which contributed to our strong free cash flow generation of 2.4 billion in the quarter. Net debt is below 52 billion, and commercial paper has been reduced to 3.5 billion. We are focusing on net debt because we have more than 5 billion in cash on hand principally from the asset sales. We intend to use this cash to pay down maturities (ph) when they become due. On capital spending, we continue to carefully monitor spending in light of volume demand in total we spent 2.6 billion in the third quarter. The business is performing well, in spite of pressures from external factors which include a very challenging regulatory and economic environment, as well as secular changes brought about by new technologies. You can look for us on strengthening our financial position, achieving productivity gains and improving our growth positioning. Now let's walk through the earnings reconciliation. On a reported GAAP basis, EPS was $1.60, compared with 69 cents per share third quarter last year. EPS adjust for nonrecurring items, 77 cents this year, compared with 75 cents in third quarter '01. Total nonrecurring items are as follows, 56 cent gain for access line disposition. We sold nearly 1.3 million access lines in Alabama, Missouri and Kentucky for nearly 4.1 billion, that's about $3200 per line, a 36 cent gain related to tax benefits from capital and ordinary losses associated with debt and equity investments in companies such as MSN and Genuity. These losses offset from the capital gains from the sales of TCND shares. These tax benefits (ph) were not utilized earlier because there were no gains recognized until these sales were completed. The utilization of these offsetting loss also result in almost 1 billion in cash tax savings. An 8 cent gain on the sale of most of our Telcom New Zealand shares, partially offsetting the one time charges, including the 12 cent charge for pension settlements and other, primarily related to force reduction. A 3 cent non-cash charge related to investment and cable wireless and 2 cent related to cable and transition costs which are related. Next quarter will be the last time we treat transition costs as an item. We've improved our balance sheet by reducing debt levels. This shows we have made major progress toward that goal. We're now at 51.8 billion in net debt, down 11.5 billion from 63.3 billion at the beginning of the year, an overall 18% reduction. As I mentioned earlier, we have reduced our commercial's paper dramatically from 12.8 billion at the end of 2001 to less than 3.5 billion today. We have not issued any commercial paper since early June. Looking ahead to year-end, we expect to reduce net debt to at least 55 to 56 billion. In fourth quarter, we have a federal tax payment due as well as normal benefits trust funding. There are three primarily drivers behind our debt reduction, improved free cash flow from operations, 4.6 billion from asset sales, including the access line dispositions anticipate the sale of TCI, which was completed in the first quarter, 1.5 billion from the return of the next wave deposits. We are still owed about 260 million and expect this remaining piece of our original deposit to also be returned. Slightly offsetting these gains has been a few acquisitions primarily in wireless. Our turn around in free cash flow is even more dramatic. A year-to-date improvement of 7.3 billion from the third quarter of 2001, this has been driven by lower cap ex cap ex and working capital improvements, including a reduction in days sales outstanding from 83 to 69 and better cash performance across all of the business units. On a segment basis (ph) looking at cash from operations less cap ex, Telcom has improved by 3.4 billion, due primarily to less capital expending and wireless increased to 2.6 billion, mostly through operational growth and working capital improvements. Improving cash flow is ultimately our ability to return value to share owners on a longer-term basis. Let's move now into the segments. For the quarter, Telcom demonstrated solid financials despite expected continued decline in access lines and pressures from the economy, technology substitution, competition and regulation. Let me emphasize some highlights. Revenues were down 1.8%, 96 million of which was from regulatory reduction, 282 million from access line losses and usage declines, and 180 million due to declines at Verizon logistics. Offsetting these see declines were increases in LD, DSL and data transport revenues. Expense control continues to be solid. Cash expense is down 3.3%. As a result, EBITDA margins increased by 90 basis points to 43.5%, up from 42.6% last year. Now, let's peel back some of the business segment revenues detail. Consumer business performs well with revenue growth of 4.5% year-to-date. We are offsetting revenue losses and technology substitutions through LD and DSL. We have successfully launched our new variations bundling (ph) initiative in a number of major markets. Business revenues declined 7.5% year-to-date and continue to reflect the impact of the continued economic slow down, reductions in employment and line losses to UNE-P (ph) (ph). Data transport revenue grew by 6.7% and special DSO equivalents grew by 16.2%.. Wholesale revenues declined by 6.2%, reflecting a weak economy, as well as lower demand for switched access due to wireless substitution in UNE-P (ph). In addition, the year includes regulatory driven price reductions. Other revenues declined 14.9%, driven primarily by Verizon Logistics, which was down about 180 million for the quarter. This is a line of business that is primarily typed to other firms' (ph) cap ex spending and produces a very small margin. Now, lets take a look closer at the UNE-P (ph) issue. As we expected, we saw an uptick in our wholesale volume this is quarter, primarily in new activity in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, as well as continued activity in New York. Overall, wholesale levels in our other states were relatively in line, although we see migration to UNE-P (ph), primarily to the UNE-P (ph) rates being set so low by the state. We believe UNE-P (ph) has done serious damage to the economic industry and delayed facilities-based (ph) competition. Six years of experience have proven that expansive unbundling at artificially low rates is fundamentally destructive to investment and therefore to the long-term competitive and health of the entire industry. Under current rules no, company has an incentive to invest in the crucial segment of the economy. Other carriers use our network at below rates because they can't build their own in a more economic fashion. We have little incentive to add to our infrastructure or to innovate of we can not recover our investment or benefit from the innovation. This obviously affects more than just Verizon. It also hurts competitors that have made real investments as well as equipment suppliers, workers, and the overall economy. The FCC is currently reevaluating its rules and there appears to be a growing recognition that the rules need to be fixed to restore some rationality and balance and to get the entire sector back on track. While it is critical to get the rules right, we obviously also need to compete vigorously in the marketplace, and we are doing just that. We are having good success with our variations launch. We've had a considerable amount of competition in our territory for some time, and we have taken steps to compete through the introduction of one bill, our bundling initiative and innovating with new products and services. Now, let's take a closer look at our other key growth initiatives. In the consumer market, our combination of new products and attractive product bundles has enabled us to grow revenues and increase market share. The key to our success in consumers are continued strong performance in the strategic growth areas of LD and DSL. LD is up 804,000 subscriber this is quarter for a total of 9.8 million, up 44% from one year ago With 28% revenue growth and increases in revenues per subscriber, as we focus on higher value customers. Overall in our more mature markets consumer market share are around 40%. On the business side, we've addressed the profitability issue at the low end of the market by implementing a minimum spending level to help offset costs associated with 0 usage. We are off too a strong start in New Jersey and Maine, reaching a penetration of 9% of the consumer market in three months without getting into specifics, we are seeing very encouraging revenue and usage trends as we have shifted our acquisition strategy to focus more on higher value customers. As a result we are seeing a higher penetration of customers with monthly recurring charges and higher usage as well. We are on track to exceed our year-end target of 10 million long distance customers. We received 671 approval in New Hampshire and Delaware in September and expect a decision by Virginia this coming Wednesday. We only need two states in the district of Columbia to complete our 271 approval. These jurisdictions only account for 10% of our access lines. We expect to file in the remaining states by year end and wrap by the entire process by first quarter '03. DSL, we added 155,000 new lines and now have a total of 1.64 million, up 70% from a year ago. We are on track to meet our year-end DSL end target. The access lines this quarter we also sold 15,000 DSL lines in these properties. As you will note on the chart, we have adjusted our prior period numbers to reflect these sales. The other side of the equation is cost management, which continues to be a core strength of our Telcom group. We've been able to reduce our cap expenses by almost 900 million for the first three months of 2002. A 13,000 decrease in full-time employees since the end of last year. On the cost side we are anticipating and responding to external factors, the regulatory and economic challenges, as well as the effects of new technology. We continue to be a highly efficient network operator and must be vigilant in striving for further productivity improvements in the face of a very challenging environment. We have executed well in areas related to merger integration and have achieved significant cost savings. We are continuing to find cost saving opportunities through further integration and best practices implementation. To sum up the Telcom results, while challenges remain with external factors such as competition, substitution, regulation and the economy that impact access lines and volume, our long-term competitive experience continues to differentiate us and is expected in our results as we continue to execute and deliver products like Variations that drive growth in a very competitive consumer market. We are very pleased with the early results with the Variation bundles. Variation is off to a strong start and the results exceeded our own high expectations. Variation bundles are driving penetration of not only DSL and LD, but also vertical services like caller ID and voice mail. In fact, almost 20% of our consumer customers subscribe to a package plan including almost 50% of all new customers. We have over 250,000 variation customers in New York, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. We will be rolling out many more in many other states and markets in the next few months. We are seeing reduced turn as well. Beyond the new consumer long distance opportunities and DSL, we have significant enterprise market opportunity that will fully open up when we get complete 271 authorization in all states. However, we are not waiting to develop these opportunities in states where we are permitted to provide LD services today. We've had several contract wins that are gaining traction with wins on intralata (ph) services, where we have 271 relief and we have a very active pipeline of bids as well. In the coming weeks, you will be hearing more from us on how we plan to move actively to address opportunities to gain market share in the enterprise business space. As we address our growth opportunities, we will continue to proactively manage our business and uncover and capture operating efficiencies in all areas of our business, as well as the play capital efficiently to drive cash generation. We will continue our leadership role in obtaining the right regulatory structure for the industry to enable economic returns for companies and investors. Turning now to wireless, we had another outstanding quarter as Verizon Wireless delivered great net ads, very strong profitability and very competitive markets. The financial highlights are, service revenues grew over 10% to 4.6 billion, strong cost performance, cash expenses per subscriber was basically flat an increase of about 500,000 retail adds in third quarter '02 compared to '01. Contributing to this performance was the 57% direct distribution mix of growth ads. All resulting in EBITDA of 1.8 billion with very strong margins of 39%. Operationally, our wireless team had a great quarter. We achieved significant gains in market share as we captured by our estimates more than 35% of national carrier net ads this quarter with 803,000 net ads, excluding the price acquisition. Our success is a tribute to our focused marketing efforts based on the high quality of Verizon Wireless network and the superior value proposition of our America's Choice plan. These accounted for nearly 60% of our retail growth ads. Prepaid products contribute about 16% of growth ads during the quarter, consistent with prior trends. Retail pay (ph) remains low at 1.7 low. Service was solid at nearly $50, a slight increase from last year. While good, I believe there is an opportunity to improve through our enterprise sales effort, and finally, our CDMA digital subscriber base was up 35%, again a fantastic quarter. Let's walk through some of the puts and takes for the quarter. First two components of our wireless net ads I want to address and retail net ads and resaler net ads, excluding Worldcom. Retail net ads were 1.1 million, up 52% from last year, which includes 60,000 conversions of Worldcom subscribers under our referral agreement. We also believe this number was stronger than normal due to the number of Worldcom customers that came into the market this quarter. Reseller net ads excluding Worldcom were down 20,000. These two together result in just over 1.1 million organic net ads. Next, we remove the remaining 308,000 (ph) Worldcom resalers from our base. We no longer have any Worldcom resale subscribers in our base, so this issue is behind us. We netted 411,000 subscribers from the price communications acquisition. This total is less than previously reported prior to the acquisition, as we have discontinued some price plans and conformed their subscriber base to our accounting methodology. Our branding, retention efforts and high quality network continue to pay dividends in terms of turn reduction. Total turn, including all Worldcom disconnects was 2.3%, excellent in and of itself. Retail turn, however, was outstanding. 2%, down from 2.2 last year. Retail post pay churn was 1.7%, down from 2% last year. Finally, before moving on, let me directly address an issue I'm sure some of you may think is driving our growth, and that is our credit policy. Cutting to the chase, this is not driving our growth. If you are a sub-prime credit customer, you don't get on our network without a minimum deposit of $125. No exceptions. Weak (ph) stringent credit policy, which we believe are the strongest in the industry, manifest themselves in our bad debt level of about 2%, as well as our churn performance. As a result of year-long effort to further improve the quality of our customer additions while addressing new markets, we made changes to enhance our credit screening. We moved to a more sophisticated credit model that uses more input to determine an applicant's credit worthiness and we refined our deposit amounts to combine with the risk assessment. We now consider four times as many credit attributes compared to the old model. It has only been a few months since implementation, we have seen no change in our credit approval rates but more importantly, we are now better able to determine those customers which would require a deposit and are actually classifying more applicants as high risk than we did previously. We require deposits of a minimum $400 from these applicants. For those that fall in-between, the minimum deposit is $125. As you may expect, these deposit levels actually cause a substantial number of subscribers to choose other carriers. In some cases, however, our prepaid product provides a good alternative. Beyond the deposits, we monitor separately, all new customers for payment delinquency in our position to accelerate treatment as needed. We monitor this very closely. The focus on quality of our base is a key driver in the outstanding performance as you can see on this next chart. Largest number of CDMA digital customers in the industry were about 85% of our base. 91% of our base retail contract customer and total retail stands at 97%, as retail - resale continues to diminish. A growing base of data customers thanks to our leadership in rolling out 1X services, we have national 1X coverage in 82 of our top markets and 170 million pops are covered. We now offer 8 hand sets that are 1X capable and will continue to expand our 1X options. Text messaging continues to grow rapidly with a 42% increase in billed messages from second to third quarter. With regard to recent pricing announcements in the marketplace we intend to remain competitive in the proper segments and in the proper credit classes. We are very focused on operational efficiency to drive the profitable growth, such as cash operating cost per user, which are cash expenses less the commission and hand set subsidies, which has declines 3.6% year-to-date. Nearly 2 and a half years after the merger, we still see efficiency opportunities in our business after significant accomplishments. We eliminated three more billing systems over the course of the past year, but have more work to do. We still have seven systems, including the price system we will continue to consolidate. We have reduced calls centers 18% and continue to seek opportunities for further consolidation and automation. We have reduced roaming charges through renegotiated roaming agreements. Finally we have standardized our CDMA Network operating platforms which provides us with cost advantages as well. In conclusion, we think about wireless business in terms of quality, performance and profitability. Quality means acquiring and retaining the right subscribers. Performance means balancing operational and financial performance, customer services and network coverage and reliability, and profitability means stringent cost controls, tight credit policy and efficient capital deployment. Verizon Wireless delivered a great quarter and we believe the performance is sustainable. In summary, Verizon Wireless delivered a very strong quarter in terms of growth and profitability. These results further demonstrate the differentiation of Verizon Wireless as the premiere wireless service provider. Our third quarter results compare quite favorably with the other national carriers, especially if you compare our performance in net adds, EBITDA margin, turn (ph) management, cash generation and overall profitability. Turning to international, the economy in Latin America has impacted our consolidated international portfolio results as consolidated revenues decreased 9.7%. However, equity income improved 226 million third quarter from 167 million last year, a 35% increase. As we indicated in the second quarter, information services revenues and expenses were both affected by shifts in the timing of publication as revenues grew 5.6% this quarter. That completes our segment with you. Our third quarter earnings paint a picture of a company that continues to turn in a strong and operating financial perform ants and exhibits a relentless focus on execution and competing in the marketplace, strong cash performance and improving balance sheet, excellence performance in our core Telcom and wireless business segment, with significant gains in market share, a continuing focus on growth and innovation, solid execution on the basics of cost control and efficiency, and finally, an active participation in shaping future industry regulation. Our quarter results compare quite favorably with our peers at the consolidated level in terms of revenue growth, operating income and EBITDA growth and the generation of free cash flow on a year-to-date basis, and now to the guidance. Our EPS and revenue guidance is unchanged. For revenues, our range remains minus 1 to 0. EPS, we are still targeting range of 305 to 309 and based upon our year-to-date, we expect to be at the low end of the range. We are once again reducing our 2002 capital expenditure target this time is 12.3 to 12.7 billion, down about 7 or 800 million from previous guidance. We are also targeting net debt between at least 55 to 56 billion by the end of December, while we have made a lot of progress here, I believe there is more to be done. Finally, our plan it to improve -- provide our 2003 guidance on our fourth quarter earnings conference call at the end of January. Before wrapping up, let me address one final issue, pension and post retirement benefits. It's a complex topic, and one that is difficult to model with a high degree of accuracy. Like many other companies, our pension plans have experienced negative returns this year. Our plan assets are diversified. We have good balanced portfolio and our plans remain fully funded. From a funding perspective, let me cover both parts here. The pension plan and the other post retirement benefits both are separate from each other. First, let me say we do not see any funding needs for 2003 for our pension plan at this time. Our pension plans are more than fully funded and we project the funding status to remain intact through the year-end. Second, for the other post retirement benefits, which are basically the health care and life insurance obligations, we will continue to fund these primarily on a pay as you go basis. So funding status is not really an issue. For the past several years, we have funded OPEC through the cash generation from operations. This is not a change. We have not transferred funds out of our pension plans to fund these obligations. Let me repeat, no cash contributions to pension plans in 2003 and continued normal funding of OPED from operations, no changes here. Okay, that's the cash side. The other side of the story is the income generation and the assumptions for return on assets and interest rates. I know there's a great interest on how this is going to impact 2003. Let me say that we're studying our actuarial assumptions as most companies are doing today. This may result in a change to the expected rate of return. Additionally a discount rate is likely to move down because of changes in market rates that the discount is related to. These changes, as well as the negative assets returns will result in lower income for pensions but have no cash effect as I outlined above. We will detail the effects on the fourth quarter earnings conference call at the end of January. Finally, we think we have a sustainable model for creating long term value for share owners, as we introduce new products and services that drive revenues (ph), we operate world class networks, address continuing product movements, fiscal discipline to improve our capital returns and improve our balance sheet. We are confident in our ability to deliver, due in large part to the strength and depth of our management team With that, thanks and I will turn it back to John to take some questions. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator? 

 OPERATOR: At this time I would like to remind everyone, in order to ask a question, press star and then the number one on the telephone keypad. We'll pause for a moment to compile the roster. Your first question, Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley. 

 SIMON FLANNERY, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Good progress on the free cash generation. It makes me think of the other international assets we have in Telcom New Zealand. How are you thinking about the Canada, European and Latin American assets. Are they still strategic or are you looking on an opportunistic basis to use those to raise further cash? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, VERIZON: Simon, Ivan here. The way I would answer that, with the reorganization we just completed in international, we put Canada and the Caribbean and Mexico and Latin America in a separate portfolio from all of the other assets that we manage or we have a financial interest in either Europe or in Asia. For the most part, we really have announced changes in Asia. We have those assets on a program where we consider them less strategic, and therefore we would look for opportunities for various forms of disposition or other activities. With respect to the core holdings that you mentioned, we still have an interest to make sure we mind the proper relationships, particularly in the wireless area, so that we can make sure we have the right roaming agreements and the right North American footprint. We also think for the Americas areas that we can do more in the enterprise market. So on short term focus there, Simon, will be to drive performance of those portfolios, demonstrate commitment to improve the asset performance of those things, and then take a more careful look at strategy over the longer term. So there no be would be no reason to move on the Americas properties at this point. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Operator next question, please. Your next question comes from Mark Crossman (ph) with JP Morgan. 

 Mark Crossman (ph): Two questions on variations. How much of the customer account you mentioned is win-back of local customers and what's kind of the average discount for variations and how much is wireless versus DSL, and on the headcount, are you talking to any unions right now about any more cuts and how far do you think you can push the headcount reductions? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: If I start with the headcount first, you know, we announced last quarter, 8,000 reductions, and that's what we're out with as we speak. We've made some public announcements that you've probably seen in some of our territories. That is within the 8,000, so that's really where we are at the moment. I think on the variations answer we're actually going to get back to you on that. 

 Ivan Seidenberg (?): Mark, I will get back to you on that particular item. 

 Mark Crossman (ph): Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Next question comes from Tim Horan (ph) with CIBC World Markets. 

 Tim Horan (ph): Thanks, great quarter. Two quick qualifications. On the pension side, I think it was just on the pension on health care, around 20% of earnings last year. Can you give us a rough idea what percentage of earnings you kind of expect it to be this year or what was it was the first half of the year. Secondly, this might be for Ivan. It seems to me you probably have the best wireless network out there in terms of coverage of quality and services. Why don't you raise rates and minimize the cap ex spending and focus on quality for customers and try to differentiate yourself that way in the industry on a more aggressive manner? Thanks. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I'll take the pension question first. It's around 10 to 12%. 

 Tim Horan (ph): Great. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: And then on the second question, Ivan? 

 Tim Horan (ph): Well, I think it sounds, you know, to every complex solution, there's always a simple answer, but I don't think that's the right one. First of all, we have an industry flooded with six competitors. We're still driving penetration from 50% toward 70%. What we have done to focus on profitability is zero in on the quality of our customer base, our coverage and create some saleable value for ourselves. What we see is other companies using price as more of an exclusive tool to generate growth. You've seen what happens. When they do that, they end up with big turns and big write downs in their customer base and so forth. I think our formula is a little bit more measured but it's going to balance better, increasing the capacity of our company, but at the same time, driving profitability to shareholders. 

 Tim Horan (ph): Thank you. 

 John Diercksen (?): Operator, next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Next question comes from Jeff Halpern with Sanford Bernstein. 

 JEFF HALPERN, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. First one for Ivan. You've been circumspect on consolidation for the last six months or so. Call me crazy, but do you see any change in position over the next six months and more for Doreen, two items, one on DSL and LD. On the LD you've given us the past your revenues for the intralata (ph) piece, could you do that for this quarter and then more broadly, as you look at margins in the scale, you're starting to enjoy in DSL and LD, could you talk about where you see the break-even points looking out into the future. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I'll start if you want, Ivan. On the LD side, I am absolutely tickled to tell you that we are profitable in total for LD this quarter. So we're actually ahead of plan, we'll make money next quarter, so we're doing great. 

 JEFF HALPERN: Congratulations. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: On the DSL side, we're still improving in particular on the expense side of the equation, but we're still not there. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: I just looked up in the dictionary the word circumspect. I think I've been anything but circumspect. The answer is we don't need any consolidation at Verizon. I think the industry does. If things change for us, we'll tell you, but at this point, we have no plans or no interest to deal with any significant acquisitions or consolidation, but I do believe and agree with other executives in the industry that different parts of the industry could use some consolidation and we would welcome other companies taking the steps to move ahead. 

 JEFF HALPERN: Thanks. 

 Doreen Toben You had asked the LD number as well all by itself. 

 JEFF HALPERN: Yes, please. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: 443 million. 

 OPERATOR: Next question comes from Kris Larson (ph) with Prudential Securities. 

 Kris Larson (ph): I was wondering if you could give us an idea of the take rates in variations for both DSL and wireless. Intel mentioned they're going to do a push to talk trial in the first half of 2003. I was wondering if you had plans for that as well. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: Starting backwards, on the push to talk, we do have plans on coming out with a product next year, so that's well under way, and on the variations, I don't have it handy. I'll tell you, very, very high rate on the DSL, extremely high. We've upped our run rate, and on the wireless, I don't have the number on the tip of my tongue, to tell you the truth, the percent, and John will get back to you with the exact number. 

 Kris Larson (ph): That's great, thanks. 

 John Diercksen (?): Operator, next question. 

 OPERATOR: Please hold, while we continue to queue the roster. Your next question comes from John Udelick (ph) with UBS Warburg. 

 John Udelick (ph): Thanks, Doreen, the trend on the business side, how business revenues are down 7.5% year over year. What was that last quarter and what are you seeing in terms of enterprise spending, the data services line, fairly strong as well, do you think we've hit bottoms in terms of those trends? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: As far as visibility, we probably don't have very good visibility into it. As far as -- would I say the data transport, the DS 1 and DS 3's and sonnet, we still see growth in them, the ATM (ph) was still pretty good. Last quarter's number was 6.9, so it is -- 

 John Udelick (ph): You see the decline continuing to accelerate as we move forward or what are the key variables there? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: Well, I think the economy is the biggest key variable here, and as we continue to see JP Morgan and everybody else make headcount reductions and the employment numbers, it seems to really follow it. Also, part of the number and why the revenues are down, the CPE is down almost 8%, so we have not seen the CPE revenue come back on us, and finally, at the smaller end of the business is where we see the UNE-P (ph), so we do see it in the general business area, maybe the five line customer UNE-P (ph) is an issue as well, but I think the biggest difference will be when the economy comes back. 

 John Udelick (ph): Follow-up, what was the number of growth on the consumer side last year that corresponds to the increase this quarter? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: 4.2% about. 

 John Diercksen (?): Operator, one last question 

 OPERATOR: Final yes, Michael Rollins (ph) from Salomon, Smith, Barney. 

 Michael Rollins (ph): A couple of data points and one he request. Could you give us minutes of use per wireless business and the percentage of customers that are on the 1X phone voice or data at the end of the quarter. You've seen significant improvement in your retail activation share. Are there certain channels that are doing substantially better than other, and what your overall distribution mix is. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: On the minutes of use, it's around 267, and what was the 1X question again? 

 Michael Rollins (ph): What percent of your base has 1X voice or data at the end of the quarter? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: About 10%. 

 John Diercksen (?): Doreen, I could help you with that. On the distribution, you said in your presentation, it was about 57%, direct? The reason we're seeing, I think a significant uptake in, I believe getting better share of the retail management of the industry is the quick rollout of 1X. I think we have excellent hand sets and lots of new products coming out. I think our team is excited in the marketplace with opportunities for increased value to customers, and we're seeing that the renovations we're doing in the stores, increasing the number of doors has really helped us a great deal. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: Mike, by the way, I looked on my piece of paper. I read the number wrong. It's 367. I said 267, I think. 

 Michael Rollins (ph): Great, and just on the retail doors, are those your own stores or you're also increasing the indirect points of presence? 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: You know we have the relationship with radio shack. We're working on other relationships that you'll read about over the course of the next quarter, but we're also swapping out the existing stores we have and putting them in better locations with better formats. So all of that is a result of the momentum you build as you integrate these companies and you go forward. So we really believe that our team has a good focus on this. 

 Michael Rollins (ph): Thank you. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: That concludes our third quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Thank you very much, and as Doreen indicated, we will be back to you probably in the end of January with our fourth quarter 2003 guidance. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
   NS
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021026dyap0005r
  


 HD
 Q2  2002  Verizon  Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,933 words
   PD
31 July 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Brian, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Verizon Communications second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. All lines have been been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star then the number 1 on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press the pound key. 

 Thank you. Mr. Dericksen, you may begin your conference. [ no audio ] [ Pause ] 

   TD
 JOHN DIERCKSEN, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: [speaker comes on in middle of briefing due to technical difficulties at their end] -- also with us, and will be available during the question and answer period. 

 The presentation materials which will be used have been available on our website since 8 a.m. this morning. If you are unable to retrieve these materials, they are available through our fax on demand at 1-800-329-3710. We intend to complete today's call in about an hour. 

 The replay of this conference call can be accessed directly from Verizon's Investor Information website at www.verizon.com/investor. We are currently webcasting this call. The call will also be rebroadcast for 48 hours beginning at 11 a.m. today. The dial-in number is: 1-800-642-1687 and the conference ID number is 4361303. 

 I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement. This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements we claim protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in a Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Discussion of those factors that may affect future results is included and contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 We continue to remain in the quiet period with respect to Verizon Wireless, as the registration statement is still on file with the SEC. Therefore, we are limited in our comments with respect to any forward-looking statements regarding the wireless business. 

 With that, let me turn it over to Doreen, who will review our second quarter results followed by a Q&A session. Doreen? 

 DOREEN TOBEN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT & CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Thanks, John. And thanks for joining us as we review our second quarter results. I'm pleased to report that our second quarter financial results reflect our strong business focus, and are in line with expectations. While our growth metrics continues to show solid gains. Our results also indicate that the economy continues to impact demand for our services, particularly in the business market. I'll talk a little bit more about that as we discuss our results. 

 We are also pleased with our ability to continue to lower our debt levels, manage cash, and maintain our excellent cost profiles. We also feel we continue to be uniquely positioned to mitigate the effects of technology substitutions and competition that have produced an ongoing and anticipated shift in our traditional revenue base. Our business focus during this time of industry change has shown that our wireless business continues to be the industry standard because we have developed the best customer profile, and the best network quality of any domestic wireless provider. 

 Our market share growth in financials in this quarter are indicative of that. Long distance and DSL are fueling customer growth and retention, and repositioning our future sources of revenue. Our continued focus on cost management has given us the advantage of being able to maintain our margins by effectively controlling costs. 

 We are also aware of the current investor environment and that the legitimate concerns investors have about our sector. As such, we have divided today's agenda up into a review of our consolidated results, along with a discussion on investor concerns, in which I have asked Ivan Seidenberg and Fred Salerno to participate. 

 Today we hope to convey to you that we continue to be a strong and vibrant business. We are taking the right steps to manage our balance sheet. We are a company that fosters a strong financial control environment. We continue to look for ways to maximize our capital efficiency. 

 Finally, we want to spend a little time discussing the Vodaphone, and the issues related to their ability to put their interest to us in the future. 

 Genuity -- starting with the Genuity reintegration decision. I'd like to give you a little bit more color into the Genuity decision. Our decision not to reintegrate Genuity is one of the outcomes of the work of a multidisciplined team that has been assessing the integration of Genuity from an operational, competitive and financial perspective. 

 With respect to ongoing commitments to Genuity, the conversion of most of our class B shares into Class A shares representing almost 10 percent of the economic and voting interest in Genuity, resulted in a default under the existing credit facilities that Genuity had with both Verizon and the banks. 

 As a result, Verizon is not obligated to make further loans to Genuity on the two billion facility. Verizon did not provide any loans to guarantee Genuity with respect to their bank debt. 

 Our approach to the enterprise market does not significantly change as a result of this decision. The enterprise segment remains a long-term viable market. We think a relatively small Verizon share can increase. A success base approach matches investment with revenue and minimizes dilution. Our organic growth plan leverages our existing base. We supplement intraLATA networks with products like gigabit Ethernet and DWDM. We expand our interLATA capabilities. For example we are now carrying our wireless LD traffic, as well. 

 Before we begin our second quarter review, I wanted to address the economy. We continue to see little sign of a significant turnaround until 2003. So we expect our revenues to remain basically flat year over year. 

 When we look out over the balance of this year, we feel that the economy is still soft but fundamentally healthy. We feel a rebound will occur but not in 2002. Business formation and expansion are still weak. We'll continue to monitor the economy and wait like everyone else for the turnaround. 

 In this challenging economic environment, we will still -- we still net consensus for earnings before non-recurring items of 77 cents per share. 

 Now I'm going to talk to you about the second quarter 2002 highlights. We've added an industry-leading 723,000 wireless net adds, which include 1.1 million retail net adds offset by 378,000 reseller net disconnects. 

 800,000 new LD customers, 150,000 new DSL customers. We saw continuing progress in our cost reduction efforts which were responsible for our strong EBITDA margins. 

 We generated $1.4 billion in free cash flow, which we used primarily to reduce our net debt by $3.3 billion, and get our commercial paper down to $8.5 billion. 

 Drilling down on our financial highlights here, adjusted EPS for the second quarter was 77 cents, same as 2000 -- second quarter 2001. 

 At the consolidated level, second quarter operating revenues were over $16.8 billion, a decrease of 1.8 percent. 

 Continued outstanding cost controls resulted in operating expenses of a decrease of 1.3 percent compared with second quarter. 

 Total cash expenses for the quarter were down $95 million last year, or 1 percent reduction. The reduction was driven by telco, where cash expenses were $5.6 billion, a decrease of $312 million or 5.3 percent. 

 EBITDA was over $7.4 billion, down 2.7 percent versus a year ago. Our EBITDA margin was 44 percent, down 40 basis points from a year ago. 

 Free cash flow margin improved by $2.6 billion from a year ago, driven mainly by lower capital spending and improved cash flow from operating activities compared to second quarter 2001. 

 We were also able to reduce net debt by $4.7 billion since the end of last year. 

 We also reduced our commercial paper balance by $2.1 billion for the quarter, and $4.3 billion since December of '01. We are going to talk about more of these in a few minutes. 

 I'll talk to you now about the earnings reconciliation. Adjusted earnings in the second quarter were $2.1 billion, or 77 cents per share, versus 77 cents for the same period in 2001. 

 On a reported basis, excluding adjustments for special items, we reported a net loss of $2.1 billion, or a loss of 78 cents per share, versus a loss of 38 cents per share for last year. 

 There's really two types of, uhm, uhm, earnings right off that we are going to talk about. One is really a market-to-market which, you know, every quarter we evaluate, uhm, our investments and the impairment, and for those that are no longer we think temporary, we take action. 

 As I look at that, we took an after-tax charge of $2.4 billion for Genuity, or 89 cents per share, to write down our Genuity equity investment and the loan outstanding. Our determination that Genuity's debt is impaired is consistent with our policy of evaluating the recover ability of equity and debt investments under FAS-115. 

 Regarding Telus, we are writing down after tax, $430 million or 16 cents per share, to reflect the actual market value of our investment. We are also writing down our investment in C&W to reflect market values, by $201 million or 7 cents per share. 

 We are also writing down several other investments which include Telecom Asia, Tyco, Crown Castle, aggregating up to about $231 million after tax, or 8 cents, to reflect their current market values. 

 After a careful review of our Worldcom exposure, we determined that we had an exposure of about $183 million, or after tax of 7 cents per share for the period. 

 North Point litigation settlement also required to us take an after-tax charge of 4 cents per share. 

 On severance, we took a charge of $475 million or 17 cents per share, to provide for severance and related items of over 8,000 employees. 

 Finally, on transition costs and other special items combined were 4 cents per share. 

 Moving on to free cash flow, we generated $1.4 billion of free cash flow. This chart demonstrates the improvement in the cash generation of our business during the past six quarters. 

 On a year-to-data basis, cash from operations was $10 billion, up 31 percent over last year. And free cash flow generation has improved by $6 billion on a year-to-data basis versus last year, due to improve cash flow from operations and reduced CAP-X. 

 Balance sheet liquidity highlights. Our first priority for the use of the free cash flow is to further strengthen our balance sheet, and we continue to make significant strides in this area. 

 During the quarter, we reduced our net debt by $3.3 billion through strong operational cash performance, as well as the return of most of the NextWave deposit. 

 We also continued to reduce our commercial paper levels through a combination of debt reduction and terming out of CP. We ended the quarter at $8.5 billion, a reduction of $2.1 billion during the quarter, and as of today our commercial paper balances are even lower due to additional actions that we have taken. 

 During the second quarter, we also closed on a $7 billion backup facility that we will anticipate will more than cover our commercial paper balances on a going-forward basis. 

 We anticipate that we will be meeting with the rating agencies during the third quarter to provide them an update on our progress and outlook. We are very focused on this issue, and solidly on track from an operational perspective in reducing our debt profile, as our debt-to-EBITDA ratio has decreased from 2.2 times at year end to just under 2.1 times. 

 To summarize, very strong cash flow generation and a demonstration of the strength of our business and our commitment to reduce debt. 

 Moving on to Telecom's second quarter highlights. Revenue for the quarter decreased $485 million or 4.4 percent compared to second quarter. Once again, the impacts of the economy and technology substitution and competition were clearly evident. However, the decline it is not as dramatic considering the following. 

 Verizon logistics, the former GTE supply company, represented $95 million of the decrease. Regulatory regulations -- reductions had the effect of reducing growth by about another $103 million. And access line and usage declines contributed approximately $200 million of the decrease. 

 Total switched access lines declined 3.3 percent for the quarter. Clearly, this declining trend in business lines is economy-related. We expect this decline will improve. 

 The trend in residential may not be economy-related but more related to technology substitution. 

 Within our revenues I'd like to highlight long distance. IntraLATA revenues were up $369 million, up about 21 percent from the same quarter last year. IntraLATA toll revenues, which also included on this line decreased by $45 million, or 10 percent. This is a decrease in the rate of decline, attributed to our win-back efforts. 

 Data transfer revenues were nearly $1.7 billion, representing a 7.5 percent increase compared with a year ago quarter. Advanced data services and fast packet services grew very strongly, while our high cap services continued to be very solid. 

 The slowdown we are experiencing is due to several economic factors. A continuation of cautious spending by enterprise IT customers, and a sharp reduction of wholesale demand. Many of which were CLECs, and we had CLEC pricing issues, and we also had issues with the ISPs compared to a year ago. 

 A final thought on revenues. We believe that the secular changes and revenue decline we are experiencing is also masked by certain artificial regulatory pricing policies. The real economic impact of competition and secular shifts will be far more manageable with a more evenhanded regulatory approach. The underlying strength of the business is strong, which is proved by the volume performance we are producing. In time, we believe the current industry crisis will cause regulators to reexamine their policies. 

 Moving to expenses. Telecom operating expenses were down $263 million or 3.2 percent. Excluding depreciation and amortization, they were down 5.3 percent. This reduction is due primarily to head count reductions and productivity improvements. 

 Head count, about 173,000 which is down 21,006 since June of '01, and 6400 since 12/31/01. We have also eliminated a number of IT contractors and significantly reduced overtime. We'll talk a little bit more on productivity in a minute. 

 In order to give you a better sense of the revenue trends of the telco, I thought I would spelled a few minutes talking about what we see happening in our major lines of business. 

 Starting with the residential or consumer markets, revenues in the consumer market, which includes local and LD, and DSL, are actually growing. Albeit very slightly. 

 Revenues in the general or small business market which, trended down in 2001, were slightly improved in second quarter '02. Actually we had some small growth in '02 -- second quarter versus first quarter of '02. 

 Obviously, our enterprise market revenues have been the most impacted by the economy. You'll see it in our business, uhm, access line losses which I will illustrate in a minute. We remain hopeful that we'll see a turnaround in this trend once the economy recovers and the business market in general picks up. 

 Lastly, wholesale revenues, which include switched and special access, as well as our resale [UNE-P] business, which also continued to trend down. We are adversely impacted in this market by regulatory pressures and pricing in [INAUDIBLE], as well as a decrease in demand in minutes of use. And also CLEC liquidity issues in this market. 

 We are concentrating on improving areas we can control as we work our way through a very challenging environment and a very unique time in this rapidly changing industry. 

 Moving on to access line analysis. In an attempt to better illustrate for you what's happening with access lines, the chart shows 7 quarters of history back to fourth quarter 2000. 

 First on the residential lines, both retail and wholesale, first quarter '02 to second quarter '02, sequential line losses were impacted by the economy and seasonality issues such as college student disconnects. You can see the trends in retail and the net loss over these seven quarters is about a million lines. 

 The second thing I would point out is that wholesale, that is both resale and UNE-P, are flat. We look different than our peers in this regard. What is interesting to note is the number of DSL customers we have added over the same period of time. Close to the same amount of retail lines lost. Although we know this is not an exact one-to-one. 

 Looking at the business market, obviously we see more line loss and a declining trend. However, on the wholesale front, once again I would point out that the rate of growth in resale and UNE-P has not shown dramatic increases over the past seven quarters. 

 Unbundled loops have increased at a somewhat steady state although the increases in the last two sequential quarters have been slower and lower than in the prior four or five quarters. The main takeaway here is a simple one: The rate of growth in UNE-P and resale lines is fairly flat for the quarter. 

 To further evaluate wholesale growth trends, let's look at the next chart which details the quarterly trends of both resale and UNE-P. As you can see, the totals have not changed much but the mix has. We are seeing resale customers switching to UNE-P. This is not a big surprise given the regulatory decisions which lower our UNE-P pricing even further to below cost, to the detriment of facilities-based competition. 

 Moving to the data growth metrics, DSL equivalents continue to grow, increasing $2.3 million sequentially and $12 million since the second quarter last year, 19.2 percent year-over-year. Voice grade equivalents, which is the sum of DSL and switched access lines, grew compared to last year 2nd Q. The slowing gross in voice grade equivalents is more of a function of decline in switched access lines. 

 While DSOs have slowed, there is still steady growth, as you can see on the chart. We continue to invest smartly in data to position us for an expected surge in demand once the economy rebounds. 

 Despite the challenges in our industry, we are pleased with our progress in strategic growth imperatives, LD and DSL. We're on the chart telco growth metrics. 

 LD we continued to lead our ILEC peers in states receiving 271 approval, eight states. We have 9 million customers and LD revenue of $369 million in the quarter. 

 As you can see on this chart, we are on a fairly steady upward trend, adding 1.6 million new customers during the first six months of the year, bringing our total to 9 million. This is 3 million more than a year ago, a 51 percent increase. 

 In DSL, we added 150,000 new lines, bringing our base to 1.5 million. 660,000 higher, or 79 percent, than a year ago. We recently signed an agreement with Microsoft that will provide us with applications we can run over our DSL network. We are excited about this and expect to see new products and services from this agreement in 2003. 

 Our ordering -- going to telecom growth measurements, our ordering provisioning interval in DSL was 5 business days during the quarter, and we are driving it to three days. Virtually all of our subscribers use self-installation. Our network reliability has been very good. And currently our loop qualification rate is 55 percent of total access lines. 

 I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes about bundling. Of the bundle offers designed to provide savings for our customers, while at the same time increasing our base and driving more revenue over our network. Bundles give customers our best prices, the convenience of one-stop shopping, and the ability to receive all services on a single bill. 

 When we roll out our bundled plans in August, this is how we think they will look. Local, LD, DSL and wireless. A compelling consumer offer that we will be able to and deliver nationwide. 

 Adding wireless to the bundle is new and key. No cable company or competitor will be doing this, and we are very excited about how this differentiates us from the rest of the industry. 

 For Verizon, the bundle lowers churn and helps to retain our customer base. We feel that acquiring and keeping customers is key to the success of any telco company. Our strong brand presence in the marketplace will also help drive bundle sales. We have already seen in our single bill, which is the wireline wireless product that we have, a reduction in both LD and wireless churn. 

 Looking at the long distance entry process, we have added 2 more states, New Jersey and Maine, to our impressive list. We expect to be largely through the process by the first quarter of next year. We're focused on getting New Hampshire, Delaware and Virginia FCC approvals in the third and fourth quarters of '02. 

 I think it is important to note that we have also achieved more approvals in more major markets than our peers which is a greater impact on our ability to sell and bundle LD. With our approach, even if one of our peers completes the 270 process first, we will still have more major markets. 

 Turning to productivity metrics, overtime for employees down 38 percent. Installation productivity is up 9.1. Repair productivity is up 6.4. Installation rework down 11.7. Repair precent reworked down 20.9 percent. Great results. 

 Looking at standing cost management, suffice it to say I feel really great about our ability to control costs. 

 At telco, the cash expenses -- that is, expense excluding depreciation amortization -- are down $700 million alone in the first half. I believe this is a very sustainable number for the second half of this year. 

 As I said earlier, a major component of our expense control has been our ability to reduce our force levels without sacrificing service. While the bulk of our head count reductions have occurred in telcom, we continue to explore other business units for further efficiencies. 

 Moving to Verizon Wireless. Simply put, they had an outstanding quarter. Verizon Wireless substantially improved its market share of the national wireless carriers during the second quarter as compared to the first quarter on both a growth and a net add basis. As we captured over 25 percent of the growth adds and 26 percent of the net adds during the second quarter, which is an improvement from 21 percent of the growth adds and 7 percent of the net adds during the first quarter. 

 We had solid revenue growth with total revenues up 8.1 percent. 

 Operating income grew 33.6 percent to $907 million, driven by the implementation of FAS-142. 

 Excellent cost performance, with cash expense for subscriber declined by 1.7 percent to 2982, even with strong growth add performance. 

 All resulting in EBITDAs of $1.7 billion with margins of 38.7, slightly higher than last year in a very competitive marketplace. 

 Taking a look at the wireless operating metrics on the quarter, significant gains in market share with 1.1 million retail net adds up 33.9 percent from last year. Our success was due to our focused marketing efforts that differentiated the quality of Verizon Wireless service, and the value proposition of our America's Choice plans, and our continued focus on customer quality -- quality customer additions. 

 Our flagship product, America's Choice, accounted for about two-thirds of our growth adds during the quarter, and we continue to make competitive gains, as 58 percent of those subscribers are new to Verizon Wireless. 

 Our prepaid products tribute about 16 percent of growth adds during the quarter, consistent with prior trends. 

 Retail churn performance continued to improve to 2 percent, a 20 basis point improved. 

 Service RPU was solid at almost $49 a decrease of 1.4 percent primarily due to the results of lower roaming revenues due to lower intercarrier rates. 

 Our digital subscriber base grew from 17.9 million customers to 25.2, up 41 percent from last year. A great quarter across all fronts. 

 Taking a closer look at net adds and churns, as I indicated earlier, net adds were up 1.1 million. However, on a net basis after resale, net adds were 723,000 due to a net reduction of 378,000 resale customers. 

 Looking at the piece parts, non-Worldcom resellers were down 117,000 during the quarter, as they continued to experience difficulties in the market. 

 Worldcom-related subscribers were down 261,000, to just over 300,000 remaining subscribers. 

 As previously announced, we have reached an agreement with Worldcom on a referral mechanism by which Worldcom subscribers will be referred to an 800 number to transfer service to Verizon. Worldcom --Verizon, will receive a fee for each customer that activates a Verizon Wireless retail service, keeps the same wireless phone number, and signs a 1-year contract. We feel that this is a very economic transaction that mitigates the potential down side from an outright purchase of the Worldcom customer base. 

 Taking a closer look at churn. While total churn performance which includes all of the Worldcom disconnects of 2.3 percent was excellent, our retail performance was outstanding. 

 Total churn of 2 percent, down 20 percent -- 20 basis points from last year, retailed post paid churn of 1.7 percent, a 30 basis point improvement. 

 Our branding retention efforts and network quality focus continue to pay benefits and churn reduction which is a key cost driver for the business. 

 High quality profile, a few more key points before moving on. As a result of our continued focus on the quality of our base and the shifts in the resale environment, our base is now 95 percent retail, a percentage that we expect to continue increasing. We continue to expand digital subscribers which now stands at 83 percent of our customers. 

 Finally, a note on our 1X rollout. We are making significant progress in our 1X market launch, and continue to enjoy a time-to-market advantage with our coverage. We have national 1X coverage in 300 cities, and 145 million pops covered with 1X. 

 In summary, a very strong quarter in terms of growth and profitability that we think further demonstrates differentiation of Verizon Wireless as a premiere wireless provider. 

 Moving to information services. Revenue for the second quarter decreased $48 million, or 4.9 percent compared with first quarter, primarily driven by shifts in publications schedules. 

 Operating expenses increased 4.2 percent or $20 million in the quarter. 

 Operating income decreased $68 million, or 13.3 percent. 

 EBITDA margins December decreased 500 basis points in the quarter. We feel confident that as the year goes on and higher margin revenue books are published, that our margins will get back into the 50 percent range. 

 Finally, we continue to see significant growth in our Internet directory service super pages, where we saw an 82 percent increase in revenue. 

 Moving to international. The economy has also impacted our international portfolio. On a consolidated base, international revenue decreased 8.9 percent compared to second quarter '01. 

 However, we were able to hold the line on operating expenses, they decrease 8.7 percent, while EBITDA decreased $23 million, or 7.6. 

 Equity income increased 26.7 percent to $275 million, driven by our decision to deacon some date CTI increases and increases in Omnitel. 

 Proportionate wireless subscribers grew 9.8 percent to 8.7 million. 

 Moving on to financial controls. Every CFO wants to ensure that their reported numbers are not only understandable to the average investor, but also conform to GAAP. Given all of the recent concerns regarding corporate accounting practices, I have authorized our corporate controller to review our accounting policies, especially those relating to capitalization policies. 

 The outcome of that review only confirmed what I knew. We have very strong controls, reporting practices and compliance procedures that are ingrained in our financial reporting process. 

 Regarding our capitalization policies, they have been consistently followed. We have a standard policy in line with FCC guidelines for capitalization of labor, benefits and software. The AICPA statement in 1999 for software was the basis of our non-software capitalization standards. Interest is capitalized based on work in process, balance and borrowing rates. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalization of labor where appropriate is based on actual time reporting. 

 In addition to having policies that are consistently followed, we also have a strong program of regular internal and external audits. Our telcom unit is audited both at the federal and state levels, and strong corporate govern and active involvement by the board and management audit committees. 

 In the final analysis, we have a long history and commitment to financial transparency and open communication with the investment community that I am proud of and intend to continue. 

 I'm going to talk a couple of minutes about the Vodaphone put now. As we believe this is a significant issue and sometimes misunderstood, I would like now to take a minute and walk you through the Vodaphone put and its key provisions. Vodaphone has the ability to put a total of $20 billion in value to Verizon from 2003 to 2007 in two $10 billion-dollar [INAUDIBLE]. The first $10 billion could be put to Verizon in 2003 and '04, and the second $10 billion in '05 through '07. 

 With respect to the first put, Verizon has the option to satisfy the obligation with either Verizon Communications stock or cash. Verizon could also require Verizon Wireless to satisfy the put. 

 With respect to the second put, Vodaphone has the option to require Verizon Wireless to satisfy up to $7.5 billion of the put, with cash or contributed debt. 

 So those are the basic mechanics. Now to the valuation. 

 The key component here is that there is no fixed value of the put. The only dollar -- only the dollar amount is fixed. The value of the put is determined by the market value of Verizon Wireless. If Verizon Wireless is a public company, this is pretty straightforward. If Verizon Wireless is not public, there is a third party appraisal process. 

 Again, this is a market-based valuation and not a fixed valuation. As market values vary up and down, the value of the put goes up and down. Let me walk you through a simple example. 

 Let's say Verizon Wireless equity was worth $40 billion. Verizon owes 55 percent, Vodaphone owes 45 percent. And they exercise the put for $10 billion, which would equate to 25 percent of the value of Verizon Wireless. 

 If Verizon communications pays Vodaphone for the put, Verizon ownership increases from 55 to 80 percent. Vodaphone's ownership goes to 20. 

 To take this example further, using the same valuation and new ownership split of 80/20, if Vodaphone exercises the second $10 billion, which again is worth 25 percent of the Verizon Wireless, Vodaphone would receive only $8 billion as they only own 20 percent of the business. The amount they receive is capped by their ownership level, and they cannot receive more than the value of their ownership regardless of the dollar value of the put. 

 The key here is market-based valuations and Vodaphone cannot receive any more value than what their ownership is worth. One provision to bear in mind, that there is non-compete restrictions as long as Vodaphone owns at least 20 percent of Verizon Wireless. 

 Finally, we believe their best strategic option in the United States is Verizon Wireless, as we continue to demonstrate our market leadership position. We have a very strong partner relationship with Vodaphone. 

 In terms -- I'm going to go now to the 2002 outlook. In terms of guidance for the remainder of the year, we are modestly revising our outlook for the remainder of 2002 due to the continued demand weakness. Revenue growth is now in the zero to minus 1 percent range. EPS is 305 to 309. Capital goes from 13 to 13.5. These targets contemplate the current demand softness persists throughout the remainder of the year, whereas we had a little bit of more optimism in our previous look. 

 If I bridge the EPS guidance here, it flows pretty straightforward. Uhm, you have a reduction in revenues and your costs offsets to the reduction in the bottom line of 7 to 8 cents, a reduction of less than 3 percent on our earnings base. Again, a comparatively modest reduction to our guidance. 

 I'm going to move now to the capital expenditures. We drilled down on our capital, we would be cutting our capital by about $1.5 billion from $14 billion to 15 to 13 to 13.5. Before we did this, however, we looked at the following items. 

 Looked at the economy to get a sense of where it was going and where our volumes would be. 

 We looked at service quality. If we took our capital budget down, would we be able to maintain still the high level of service that we have had. 

 Growth, I wanted to ensure that we would continue to fund our growth areas, wireless, data and LD, in order to assure our customers that we are going to continue to provide them with the right technology. 

 A return on invested capital. If we made the cuts, I want to make sure that we funded those products that gave us the best return. 

 The cuts will come primarily from telcom, and other wireless will go down about $100 million. We will continue to mon or our spending and if needed take additional actions depending on volumes. 

 The second quarter summary, a few points in closing before we get to your questions. 

 Cash performance continues to be strong, and our balance sheet continues to improve as we focus on cost reduction and capital efficiency. 

 Our telecom group is executing on its growth initiatives and competing effectively in the market. 

 Wireless had an excellent quarter by any measure. 

 Our guidance adjustment reflects current market realities. 

 And finally, I am confident in our internal controls and the integrity of our management team as we continue to perform inning times. 

 I think now we can take questions. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Brian, will you take the first question? [pause] Brian? 

 OPERATOR: Your first question comes from Adam Quinton of Merrill Lynch. 

 ADAM QUINTON, MERRILL LYNCH: Yeah, I got a couple of questions for Doreen related to some specifics on financials. Firstly Doreen just finishing off on the CAP-X you made the point about revised guidance for the year. But given you only spent $5.5 billion in the first half, the guidance still implies a very big pickup in the second half. So I wonder if you can comment on that. 

 Second question would relate to the balance sheet. Obviously, you've done a good job taking debt down and particularly highlighted the commercial paper. But you still have something like $17 billion of short-term debt half commercial paper, half other stuff. I was wondering if you could indicate what your objectives are through the balance of the year, specifically on the short-term debt, and how much further within that commercial paper will come down. 

 And then finally, on pensions, I wonder if you could tell us how much by way of net credit was booked to year-to-date profits. I think the full year credit last year was 2.7. How much have you booked this year? Thanks. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: Okay. Let me start with the capital. Part of it is Price. When we acquire Price, we have approximately $200 million that will come into the second quarter. That's a bump-up from the normal run rate. 

 And I think that the rest of it is really on the telco side some of the remote terminal and additional DSL. Also there is just generally a timing issue and there's some real estate that comes into the second quarter, as well. And systems expenses in the second half. 

 So that said, as I think I mentioned, we'll continue to monitor the volumes. To the extent that the volumes don't, you know, uhm, pick up, we might, you know, relook at this. 

 On your second question, which is the commercial paper, we have a target of, I'd say, maybe $7 billion by the end of the year. What else? Oh, we have cash on hand of about $3 billion. 

 ADAM QUINTON: And the pension question? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: What was the pension question? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: [INAUDIBLE, in background] 

 ADAM QUINTON: What was the net credit that you booked year to date? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I guess it's about 32 cents for the year, so we'll say about half of that should flow pretty evenly. 

 ADAM QUINTON: Right. Okay, thank you. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Brian, next question? 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jeff Halpern of Sanford Bernstein. 

 JEFF HALPERN, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Couple questions for you. The first one is more at a higher level. If you look at your run rate for UNE line losses versus BellSouth and SPC, who have already reported, it appears you guys are experiencing significantly less loss to your competitors. I guess my question is partially for Ivan, and it's -- do you think that that's a function of your early LD entries, or is there something else going on that's driving it? 

 And then second, just a quick quantitative question. Can you disaggregate your ISDN numbers out of your switched access lines? 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Ivan? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS: Let's do the second one first. That is your basic ninja question. We'll get to you afterwards. Call John. We'll see if we can help you. [ Laughter ] On the first one, let me just make this comment. I think what we have been saying for the last several years is that we have had a lot of experience with competition over the course of the last four or five years. And so our early entry into LD, Jeff, is part of the answer. 

 I think our bundling of services, I think our focus on some of the new technology we are putting out to business customers, I think the bundling of products and services, I think -- I think if you looked at this in both ways, both at the residential and the business market, I think we just have a lot more experience into the competitive tunnel here. And a big piece of that is early entry into LD. 

 JEFF HALPERN: Okay. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Brian, next question? 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Simon Flannery of Morgan Stanley. 

 SIMON FLANNERY, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot, good morning. Doreen, you talked a lot about return on investment. Could you discuss the profitability of your long distance business and also DSL, you know, where are we on EBITDA break even, on net income break even and getting to the ROI that you are looking for? Thanks. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I think if you look at long distance, if you look at it on a state by state base -- for example, we are already profitable in the state of New York, if we are, you know, pushing close to profitability in Massachusetts. So as you would imagine, you know, we have invested in building the network. It is really -- it is really a, uhm, a scale and scope issue. 

 So the more traffic you have over this, and we expect, uhm, I guess, LD profitability in total for next year, but we're clearly on track for the operating margins that we were, you know, counting on. This is a great -- it's been a great retention tool for us as well as far as keeping the lines. so LD story, we're very comfortable with. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: How do you define profitability? 

 DOREEN TOBEN: We actually do it total costs. So it is not an incremental cost. It is -- it is the costs of building the network. It is all the sales. It's all the marketing. It is an all in -- an all in cost. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: Okay. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: So there is nothing left out. Actually, we look at DSL the same way. We don't look at it on an incremental. We are not profitable at the moment in DSL. We are making, you know, strides. We are reducing our costs. We have made some great progress there. And John can follow up with you on some further metrics on DSL. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: I'll get back to you on that one, Simon. Because as you know, there are some things that we're working towards in terms of content and other elements, service improvements, shortening provision days as Doreen indicated. So I'd be more than happy to follow up with you. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: Thanks. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Brian, next question? 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Blake Bathe of Lehman Brothers. 

 BLAKE BATH, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning. A very good quarter. On the free cash flow, it looks like you've done $2.4 billion year to date. Certainly as you look at both the cost and CAP-X side, it seems like you should be able to improve that in the second half. So do you have a full year guidance number? And I apologize if I missed it. 

 And second of all, on enterprise and wholesale, I heard you say that those declined year over year, but I didn't hear much quantification of how much. So if you could provide that as well, that would be great. Thanks. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I guess if I start with the enterprise, they are probably down 7 or 8 percent in that range. 

 And the wholesale is, you know, I would put that in the sort of the same -- actually, let me get back to you with the exact wholesale number. 

 And then on the debt level, if that was where you were going, Blake -- 

 BLAKE BATH: The free cash flow. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: Uh... 

 BLAKE BATH: For the full year. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I would say we would just continue to drive it. I don't have the number. I would say on -- the change in working capital was a big component of it for the first half. Let me answer you sort of on a debt level, which would be we would anticipate being lower than where we are today and using free cash flow to do that. 

 BLAKE BATH: Okay. Thank you. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, next question. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jack Grubbom of Soloman Smith Barney. 

 JACK GRUBMAN, SALOMON, SMITH, BARNEY: Thanks. Morning. Couple questions. On Genuity. Now, the fact that you're not going to reintegrate them, uhm, is there any way that -- I don't know, Genuity management, Genuity shareholders, bondholders, whatever, can make this a messy process, or can you just truly decide not to reintegrate them? 

 And then if that happens, can you maybe expand a little bit more on what the business relationships are between Genuity and Verizon and, you know, if they got untangled, uhm, you know, what, if any, disruption that might cause? And I guess if they ultimately file Chapter 11, would you have any -- not even so much interest in their assets, but if you did, by virtue of your equity interest, do you have any preferred, uhm, status or -- or no? 

 And then just a quick question for Doreen. I know don't want to give out total factor productivity numbers for a whole host of reasons, but just broadly if you think about your productivity as it is now, obviously, some of that is being fueled by the integration savings that you've done. If you think about a steady state productivity level, once you get past all the integration benefits, how much different is it than what we're seeing now? Thanks. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Jack, I'll answer the Genuity question. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: Yeah. Because Doreen's ultimately more qualified to answer the second question. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yeah. Well, this Genuity question -- [ Laughter ] Well, this Genuity question is like an answer I gave once about if I could dunk, I wouldn't be in the telephone business. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: Yeah, I kind of remember when did you that. [ Laughter ] 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: So, I think that you had a lot of what ifs in the Genuity. Let me perhaps explain the process. Because what we've done is notify Genuity that as Doreen explained, that we're not converting -- we're not going to maintain the -- maintain a majority ownership, and therefore we have become a 10 percent owner, which cuts off any further funding. We also released an announcement that indicated we would continue the commercial relationship we have. 

 Now, Genuity right now as we speak, is in negotiations with their lenders to look at restructuring their company and defining a business plan that will be acceptable to the banks that would be --who would be funding their business going forward. 

 So I think what we need to do is let that process play itself out. And we should also expect that Genuity, of course, will have to make some adjustments to its current business and in my view, go back to their core. Which is, they are basically an Internet backbone access business. They're pretty good at it. And I think to the extent that they can define themselves in that space in a fashion that would produce a business model acceptable to the banks, I think they are going to be in good shape. 

 I also believe that we'll continue to have some commercial relationship with them because we need to refer services to them, we can jointly sell, and we indicated that in our press release going forward. 

 I think in terms of anything else related to this, which as you indicate assets sales and stuff. Let me just broaden that answer to suggest, you know, my view hasn't changed on any of that. I think the industry going through such a tumultuous change in everything, I'm not so sure that, other than our own company, that I know what anybody's valuation might be, what anybody's assets might be worth, what anybody's operations might look like. So I think we need to take a little time and focus on what we do well, and, uhm, and make sure that we don't get out ahead of ourselves. 

 If I can just take -- since I have the floor, real quickly, if we can focus on what we do well, and what we control, we can take share like we have done in wireless. We can take share like we have done in consumer LD, and we can incrementally take share in Enterprise. And then allow the dynamics of that to settle, and then, you know, a year from now or whatever, we'll all be in a better shape to look and see what the next steps might be. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: But you see no risk at some delay or some monkey wrench in the process, if you just basically declaring you're not going to exercise your option? You don't see any legal recourse from somewhere out there that would try to stop that? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: I don't think you can answer that, Jack. With total clarity. I think we've taken the steps that we think are necessary to move forward, and the fact that Genuity is now in negotiations with the banks would suggest that they're following the same process -- 

 JACK GRUBMAN: That's good. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: On the total factor productivity, Jack, I think you know my sensitivity on this one. I will give you a number that I would say is total company, right. Now, I'm in wireless and information services and what not. I would say 5 to 7 percent. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: And do you think that's the -- that kind of -- do you think that's a sustainable level, you know, beyond when you get through all of the kind of integration benefits? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Jack, let me jump in on this because this is the guidance that we have been giving for the last four years. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: Right. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Because the issue is, we have done all these mergers. There are huge opportunities for to us continue to learn and take cost out, in addition to the fact that -- that, uhm, Doreen in particular when she was in the telco and Larry Whitman now in it. Telco are continuing to find enormous opportunities for technology installations and get productivity from that. The wireless people are doing the same thing. 

 So we have in effect demonstrated the capacity for 5 to 7 percent. And my view is, we are going to continue to have in effect productivity gains in the 5 to 7 percent range going out into the foreseeable future. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: Just eyeballing your numbers, you mentioned, Doreen, to the last question about enterprise and wholesale being down, but if you kind of include together wireless, DSL, LD, which is probably still 90 percent consumer, with the loss on the local telco, looks like your consumer business actually grew. 

 DOREEN TOBEN: I thought I said that Jack. It did have slight growth. If I put wireless in, it would have huge growth. 

 JACK GRUBMAN: Right. Thanks. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: All right. That concludes our earnings call. I want to thank everybody for their participation. Appreciate it. Those that are on the call, those that are on the webcast, as well, again, thank you very much. We will get the information out relative to our third quarter, it will be on our website pretty shortly. So thank you again. 

 OPERATOR: This concludes today's Verizon Communications second quarter 2002 earnings conference call. You may now all disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021226dy7v000ca
  


 HD
 Q1  2002  Verizon  Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,837 words
   PD
23 April 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning.May name is Lacey, and I will be your conference facilitator. I would like to welcome you to the Verizon Communications earning's release conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer period. If you would like to ask a question during this time, press star and then the number 1 on your telephone keypad, and questions will be taken in the order they're received.If you would like to withdrawyour question, press the pound key. Please remember by pressing star 1 more than one time, it will take your question out of cue. Thank you, Mr. Diercksen, you may begin your conference. 

   TD
 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Verizon Communication's first quarter 2002 earnings conference call. Thank you for joining us today. I am John Diercksen, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. With me this morning are Ivan Seidenberg, our CEO, and Fred Salerno, our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, who will review Verizon's first quarter earnings performance, as well as providing an updated outlook for 2002. The presentation which will be used, along with the financials for the first quarter were faxed to you a short while ago.If you did not receive these materials, they are available through our fax on demand at 1-800-329-7310.Or you can visit our website. We intend to complete today's call in about an hour. This conference call will be rebroadcast for 48 hours beginning at 11:00 a.M. Today.The dial-in number is 1-800-642-1687.And the conference id number is 3702601. You can also access the replay directly from Verizon's Investor Information website at www.Verizon.Com/investor where we're currently webcasting this call.I would like to draw your attention to our Safe Harbor statement.For this presentation contains statements about expected future events, and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risk and uncertainties.For those statements, we claim protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.The discussion of factors that may effect future results are contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.I would also like to point out that we remain in a quiet period with respect to Verizon Wireless as the registration statement is still on file with the SEC. Therefore, we're limited in our comment with respect to any forward-looking statements regarding the wireless business.With this, let me turn it overto Fred, who will review our results and our revised outlook for 2002, followed by a Q&A session. Fred? 

 FRED SALERNO: Thank you.Good morning, everyone. I would like to take you through the first-quarter results, and update you and give you an outlook for the rest of 2002. Now, 2002 as everybody knows is shaping up to be a tough and challenging year.But we'll talk about what we're doing to try to mitigate the effects of that. Two things affecting 2002, the economy.Clearly we see continued effects on the economy, particularly as it relates to the business market and mostly in the traditional voice market.And also the other affect is technology substitution and competition.We are offsetting a lot of this by our focus on product introduction. We'll talk about that in a little while.Without a doubt, our industry leading control and very, very strong cash management. I believe that we're uniquely positioned to mitigate the effects of technology and substitution, and even competition, and we will produce an ongoing and anticipating shift in our revenue base by our actions. Our investments in long distance, DSL, wireless, our fueling customer growth and retention, and repositions our resources of revenue for the future. In addition, merger synergies and a strong balance sheet have given us the advantage of maintaining our margins by effectively controlling costs. As we look to the remainder of 2002, we are concerned with the length and depth of the economic slowdown, and its effect across our businesses.At this point in time, we see little sign of a significant turnaround until 2003. So we expect our revenues in 2002 to remain flat that will be reflected in our updated earnings guidance. As we move throughout the year, you will see us remain sharply focused on the business fundamentals that are within our control. We have institutionalized cost reduction, and we've had productivity gains that are very, very strong, and we continue to strengthen our cash flows. And we're doing that by making sure that, in fact, we drive cash savings from the expense reductions. We divest some nonstrategic assets. And we realign our debt portfolio, and effectively managing our capital spending throughout this entire period. We have a lot to cover, so let's get started. Let's talk about how we have institutionalized cost reductions and productivity gains. What I would like to leave you with here is that most of these cost reductions are cash-cost reductions. And as a result, we've increased our cash flow for the year. And we'll talk a little bit about that later.In addition to sales of some of the selected nonstrategic assets, it will enable us to further improve our debt and cash flows. If you go to slide three, the first quarter 2002 financial highlights, I would like to take you through some of those highlights. Obviously, the adjusted EPS, 72 cents, same as last year. At a consolidated level of first-quarter operating revenues were 16.4 billion [INAUDIBLE] compared to first quarter 2001.And if you look at this 16.4, you will see 10.5 in telecom, 4.4 in wireless, 751 in international, and 853 in information services. Continued outstanding cost controls result in operating expenses of only 12.5 billion, and this is a decrease of 70 million, or .6% compared with the first quarter of 2001. You can see that in telecom, the cash expenses were 5.6 billion, and that was a decrease of 379 million, or 6.4%. EBITDA was 7.2 billion, down 1.3% versus a year ago, and mart begin was 43.8%, down from the 44.1% a year ago. For the purposes of [INAUDIBLE] in our adjusted income statement, we've done two things so that our results are, on an apples-to-apples basis.We've restated the first quarter of 2001 to show Puerto Rico Telephone on a consolidated basis.You know that we increased our ownership from 40% to 52% in January of this year. If we didn't make this adjustment, our growth rates would be artificially inflated.Second, due to our reduction of ownership as well, and also as a reduction of our control, we have deconsolidated results of CTI holdings.That's our Argentine investment. Precash flow improved by 3.5 billion from a year ago. That was mainly driven by cash coming from operations, and lower capital spending than the first quarter of 2001. Therefore, we were able to reduce debt by 1.4 billion since the end of last year, and we've also had reduced our commercial paper balance by 2.2 billion, and we'll talk more about these in a couple of seconds. I ask to you go to slide four for the adjusted earnings in the first quarter. They were 1.97 billion, or 72 cents a share. On a reported basis, excluding the adjustments for certain special items, we reported a net loss of 501 million, or 18 cents a share.We have adjusted the following items to get to the 72 cents figure.Investment related writedowns, a total of 2 billion a quarter.And there are three investments we're writing down at this time. First, and the largest, the business in Venezuela. We've taken a writedown of 1.4 billion or 51 cents per share. We're now carrying this investment on our books at just below 500 million which represents the market value of our shares at the end of the quarter. The next is MSN, we're writing down 436 million, or 16 cents per share. This includes equity, the convertible notes, and the remaining value of our capacity contract.We've written MSN down to zero.Finally, CTI, again, our wireless investment in Argentina, taking a charge of 190 million, or seven cents per share a quarter to effectively reduce our investment to zero in this company. We also have some FAS-142 effects that we need to talk about.We took a charge of 496 million, or 18 cents a share this quarter as a result of the impairment of a portion of our unamortized intangibles including goodwill.A majority of this charge is in the international and information services sector.There were no impairments of any intangible assets at Verizon Wireless. We also have a net gain on assets. We are excluding the gains of $116 million.These are net gains, or 4 cents a share primarily related to our sale of TSI in January. Although we don't flow through some of the small gains of sales in the international group, we always flow through, and include -- exclude I should say, significant sales such as TSI in our normalized earnings. We had some transition costs mostly related to system enhancements, such as the elimination of redundant systems, and they totalled 52 million, or two cents per quarter. If you go to slide 5, looking at our debt, we reduced our total debt by 1.4 billion from the year end, and we ended this quarter below 63 billion. Again, we were able to reduce our commercial paper to 10.6 billion, an increase -- a decrease of 2.2.In our recently-concluded meetings with the credit agencies, we indicated our plans to reduce CP to within the 8 to 10 billion range by the year end.We're confident that we can accomplish that objective and expect to be at the lower end of this range. We are expecting to soon receive most of our next wave deposit, 1.5 billion, which we will utilize to immediately paydown commercial paper. We're also anticipating about 2.8 billion in net proceeds from previously-announced sales of certain rural wireline properties, and the closing will probably come sometime in the second half of 2002. We have a very strong free cash flow story, quarter to quarter, our net cash provided by operations was up 1.4 billion, capital expenditures were down 2.1 billion, dividends paid were the same as they were last year resulting in a 3.5 billion improvement in free cash flow from the first quarter of last year. Again, we're very focused on reducing debt, and we have a plan to do so at the end of the year. If you go to slide six, you can see that we have outstanding cost management.I feel very, very good about our ability to control costs.For example, let's take a look at the telecom cash expenses. Just the fourth quarter of 2000, the telecom group has been able to reduce it's quarterly run rate of cash expense by $700 million. That translates to 11.5% decrease in cash expenses. This is a testament to the focus on productivity, and process efficiencies that has been dominant in that group, and capturing all of the merger synergies and more than we promised.We did this without sacrifices our excellent service results.A major component of our expense control has been to manage down our force levels with, again, without sacrificing service since the end of 2000. We've been able to reduce 20,000 head count. Again, that equates to a 7.5% reduction.We also are able to continue to reduce our equivalent head count by over 23,000 over the same time frame.Now, while the bulk of the head count reductions have occurred in telecom, we continue to make progress in other businesses, and to explore other opportunities for further efficiencies. In wireless, even though we have had the best cost structure in the wireless industry, we have worked very closely with our partner to better understand the processes they've used to drive expense from their varied wireless businesses throughout the world. In this quarter alone, we have implemented certain business practices which have resulted in approximately 1,800 equivalent headcount reduction from last quarter's numbers. As the economy continues to overhang our industry, our cost initiatives will be a key component to our ability to increase cash flows and maintain our EBITDA margins. Can we go to slide 7? Product innovation and marketing. Very important story here. I won't take you through all of this.But coupled with the very strong focus on costs, we continue to innovate and introduce new products and services. Let me give you a couple of them. Wireless, we're continuing to roll out network -- we call it the Express network.[INAUDIBLE] that markets all across the country. We have 1/3 of our POPs converted, and our plan will be implemented mostly by the end of this year.In April, we began to offer two-way intercarrier SMS, enabling customers to exchange text messages with subscribers of most all other wireless carriers.We expect this capability to continue the rapid growth and the popularity of this service.February we launched America's Choice. Great, great plan. Very popular. Over 1.6 million subscribers have come to the plan in less than two months. Currently, about 23% of our price plans with monthly access are $55 and more.And lastly, through a new technology called BREW, our customers will be able to download applications such as games to their handsets. Let's talk DSL. Certainly, we're a leader in offering value and added features with our DSL product. Home portless one. It enables you in the home to use the existing home wiring to create a LAN that enables to connect multiple PC's and laptops to a single DSL connection.And enables communications among other devices such as printers, and has a built-in firewall. So very, very strong product and customers love it. Our plan is to introduce new two new valuated services during the next quarters to both businesses and consumer markets.One is a wireless LAN which will provide customers mobility when using DSL to access their corporate networks, the home PC's, and other devices, or directly to the internet.In addition, we'll introduce a suite of security offerings including state of the art firewall and antivirus protection. As far as product packaging goes, we expanded our wireline wireless one-bill option to New Jersey and Connecticut after a very successful launch in New York and Massachusetts. And we have begun to trial some bundle packages which combine local service and LD, wireless and internet access in a discounted bundle on a single Bill.Very exciting.Expect us to be in that market in a much bigger way the second half of this year.And through our Global Services Unit, GSI, we have international private line and frame relay capabilities, meaning we have expanded our international data product suite. Our enterprise business team launched a whole new set of series offerings during the quarter, managed services, optical networking, vertical market operations, and call solutions.Lastly, superpages.Com which are super-bundles is the information services' latest electronic offering. This product line has been extended from the 3.0, set to advertisers who want more sophisticated options, as well as advertisers who are only interested in the very simple entry-level product. By and large, great new innovative products. Okay. Let's talk a little bit about our operating landscape, and that's on slide eight.Before we begin our segment review, I think it's important to recap what we see in the operating landscape for the balance of the year. Our view is that the economy will not significantly improve, and therefore, continue to impact our revenue growth in 2002. We will continue to monitor our expenses and position our business to rebound when that economy turns. We will continue to compete and be the leader of one of the toughest telecommunications environments. We're certainly committed to winning customers in broadband, and have, local or wireless markets with our bundles, and all of the new product innovation and packaging that will go on. For example, in wireless, our focus is to maintain an excellent customer base in terms of quality.We certainly have been able to do this, and this has enabled us to maintain a churn rate that in this business is rated the best.In the first quarter our wireless churn decreased primarily due to the focus on retaining quality customers.We feel our bundle local and long distance products compare favorably to any of our competitors including the most recently announced MCI Neighborhood Plan. At this point in time we're going to reduce prices just to meet the competitor's plan.We feel that we are positioned very well in this space at this point in time. Finally, we will continue to drive our business to ensure that we have a level playing field to compete.With the [I9NAUDIBLE] bodies to continue to focus on equal competition and make sure that that landscape is, in fact, equal among all competitors.So we feel that we have some work ahead of us, but the plans will enable us to succeed in this very tough operating landscape.Okay.Let's get to the segments -- I would ask you to go to slide nine for telecom and talk about the first-quarter highlights. Revenue for the quarter decreased 446 million, or 4.1%. As I said at the beginning, the impacts of the economy in technology substitution were clearly evident.However, decline is not as dramatic as it looks. And you need to consider the following: The slowdown in the economy negatively impacted our unregulated subsidiary, VG Logistics Management, which represented $140 million of this decrease.As you know, that's a relatively low-margin business.Regulatory reductions had the effect of reducing growth by another $100 million. Half of this was network access, and the other was in the local arena.Access line and usage decline contributed to about 200 million of the decrease in the quarter. Now, switched access lines declined 2.7%, with residential lines down 1.7, and business down 4.2.Clearly, this declining trend in business line is economy-related, and we expect this growth to come back as soon as the economy comes back.The trends in the residential is somewhat related to economy, and also somewhat related to wireless substitution.Within our revenues, I would like to highlight our long distance performance. Intralata revenues were up 367 million, more than 30% a year ago.Intralata toll revenues included in this line with down 70 million from a year ago. We have seen steady decreases in the elotion of Intralata tolls, mostly driven by the Intralata product. A net, net, long distance revenue is up. We also see the effects of a combination of wireless substitution, pricing, and competition affecting us, but we are offsetting that by winning in our former Bell-Atlantic 271 approved state significant number of customers back. The win-backs are enormous, and right now win-backs are greater than the out-picks.And lastly, data transport revenues were up about 1.7 billion representing an increase of 10.4% compared to a year ago.Advanced data, fast package services grew strongly while high-cap services continue to be very, very solid.The slowdown we're experiencing in certain areas in the telecom is due to several economic factors clearly cautious spending by the enterprise business it customers, sharper wholesale demands many which were collect based from a comparable period a year ago. If you look at the operating expenses, they were down 297 million, or 3.6%. And if we exclude the depreciation and amortization expenses were down 6.4%. As I mentioned previously, this reduction is primarily due to process improvements in head count reductions.If we go to slide ten, let's take a look at some of those metrics.Despite the challenges in our industry, we're pleased with our progress in this strategic growth imperative its, LD, and DSL. In LD, clearly we're the leaders.We have received a 271 approval in six States. We now have 8.2 million customers.LD revenue of 367 million. And as you can see from this chart, we are on a fairly steady upward trend adding 800,000 new customers during the first three months of the year to bring our total to [INAUDIBLE].That's a 3 million more than what we had a year ago, almost a 60% increase. DSL, we had about 160,000 new lines bringing our base up to 1.35 million, 88% increase from a year ago.We improved our provisioning interval from eight days to five days, and we're striving to get it to three days.Almost all of our subscribers use self-installation. It's now at 99% rate. We continue to improve network reliability, and the current loop qualification rate, 55% of our total access line. Moving to data growth metrics, that's on slide 11, the DSO equivalence continues to grow increasing 1.9% sequentially, and by 14.4 million since the first quarter of last year. This represents almost a 25% increase in voice-grade equivalence to some of DSL and switched access line group jumped 6.10% compared to the first quarter of 2001.Let's talk for a minute about the trends that we see in the consumer or residential lines on slide 12.Access lines, as you know, have declined over the last two years.If you look at residential lines, this chart will show you that the primary lines held stable with less than a 1% decline. The biggest contributor to the decline was the negative growth in additional lines.They used to be in the mid-single digits two years ago. And right how to we're talking about declines almost to where they were two years ago, and the penetration rates peeking at 20%. The stretch in the consumer market, therefore, is the grow revenues per account that attempt to replace the line lost in minutes with new products and services. This, we believe, will also help customer retention, and let's take a look at this opportunity on slide 13. As you can see, we believe that the real competitive edge in our marketplace, the thing that makes us unique in our footprint is our ability to provide a compelling natural branded bundle of services to customers: Local, wireless, LD, DSL. So we're focused now on a single bill for a bundle of services, driving revenue for customer, and total customer value. Customer retention, and data products to offset flat growth in voice. This chart shows very interesting trending information. And wireless is not even apart of this mix yet.It will be, but not yet. I want to you look for more bundling initiatives in the second half of this year. But clearly, the ability to add LD is key to the bundle, and one that we are far ahead of our pier groups on.Slide 14 will show you our long distance entry progress.We're making great progress as you can see. We expect to be largely through the process by the end of this year.And we just got into another state last week, Vermont. Slide 15, productivity metrics. These are very interesting metrics. We've been talking to the investment community about reductions in equivalent head count for a while.We need to discuss this topic a little more in depth, and provide some of the reasons why we're able to say that we've eliminated approximately 23,000 [INAUDIBLE] heads since the fourth quarter of our low.We need to calculate these equivalent heads by determining overtime, and determining contract to savings. As you can see from this chart, we've reduced overtime per employee by 56.5%, and this decrease generates a savings in equivalent head count.If you add contractors to that, you get the equivalent head count reduction.How did that happen? Well, you can see some of the factors there. Let me talk about them. Installation productivity. Up 12.9%.Repair productivity up 7%. Installation rework, down almost 13%. Repair rework, down over 22%. So, therefore, net-net, a lot less hands in the plant, less more productivity, saves big bucks.I want to go to slide 16.Consumer sales productivity metrics. Certainly, you are not going to go through each and everyone of these. What I want you to take away is that we're leveraging our channels for profitability. We have the most effective channel in the business, and you can take a look at some of the metrics there. This sales channel helps up derive things like long distance sales, DSL sales, package sales. This will be the channel that will enable us to grow -- that I talked about before.Let's take a little bit of a breath and talk about wireless. You can see we're focusing on quality of our base subscriber base and our profitability.Service revenues grew about 8.6%. ARP was down mostly driven by larger bundles price-related. On the expense side, we continued to be excellent performance as we managed through distribution mix which is now 56% of our gross ads coming through direct channels compared to 49% last year. Additionally, we continue to consolidate operations, as I said earlier, reduce full-time equivalence by 1,800 this year. These actions contribute in cash expense subscriber declining by almost 2%, even a growth over 10%, even our margin expansion of 60 basis points to about 38%. As you may recall from our previous earnings call, we had an open item regarding the impact of FAS-142 on a cellular license. Resolved this issue, we won't advertise the licenses. Now, as a result of all cost settings, a implementation of FAS-142, you will now see the true profitability of our wireless business. Our operating income of $774 million is certainly the industry-leading performer. Why? If you go to 18, you can see the metrics there. Take a look at the overall base.We had a total of 29.6 million subscribers, up 9%. Almost 2.5 million add during the last year. I will continue to focus on a quality base as I said before, and continued migration to digital.Subscribers are now more than 80% digital, and 94% of the busy hour usage are digital.This is as a result of consistent management focus delivering the right growth. We think that's what creates this long-term value that we mentioned before.If you go to the slide 19, you can see the net ads insurance for the quarter.As we previously indicated, this is really a tale of two customer segments, retail, and reseller. Under retail, we've added a total of 452,000, mostly all post-paid contract digital customers.Very comparable to last year of net ads of 451, but a higher percent post-paid contract customers.I would like to note that this includes 68,000 from the acquisitions that we had during the year. On the resale aside, we had a net loss of 266,000 customers.Again, this is an issue that the industry is facing. Its resellers are managing through the sort of challenging economic environment they're living in.We don't expect this trend to continue in future quarters to the degree that it did.It will continue, but certainly not to the degree. The good news is that the numbers are much lower right now, and these resellers are only a small part of overall business, and they represent only about 2% of our service revenues.Taking a look at churn, we saw a 30-basis point improvement in the overall churn, even including all of the resale churn we had this quarter.If you look at retail, that decreased by 50 basis points, which is very, very significant.And even the very low churn that we see in post-paid improved by 20 basis points. So net-net making very, very strong progress here, and the retail prepaid churns down so much from last year, and this is as a result of, I think, the migration to the national, digital freeup prepaid product that was established this year this year compared to last year, and that helps us a lot when we make comparisons to the only analogue prepaid offer we had before. We go to slide 20.You can see that we have the largest customer base. We also believe the highest quality retail composition of 94%. Reseller down to six% and getting smaller.We also have the largest digital customer base, 23 1/2 million subscribers, as I said before, and 80% of our total base.Finally, we're seeing very good customer response to a new America's Choice plan. And now over half of our new customers are choosing it.Before I leave wireless, I just want to say that wireless customer growth in April is off to a strong start due to the American Choice plan I mentioned before, and our new [INAUDIBLE] service. In the month of April, we'll more than compensate for the continued resale of shortfall in our retail challenge.International, slide 21. Consolidated basis, international revenue grew 3.3%. By the way, we've included in these numbers the effects of foreign exchange.Without that, those numbers would be 6.2%.Operating expenses grew 6.7%. INAUDIBLE] decreased 7%. A lot of it had to do with our South American operation. Our equity income increased 4.8%.And proportionate wireless customers grew 21.1%, a strong performance.Information services, our yellow page group has shown revenue increase of 1.8%, this is mostly timing. We've got large directories which will cut over in subsequent quarters. Net operating income increased about 2 million, or 1%. Even our margins decreased again, mainly due to the fact that the larger books will be coming in the second and third quarter. We're still feeling very good about our margins in this business. And we expect to get them in the 50% above range in subsequent quarters.Finally, we feel very good about that we continue to make significant progress, and growth in our internet service directories, superpages.Com. And we saw an 84% increase in revenue, and a 59% increase in super-bundle units sold. Strong performance. Let me summarize our first quarter. I would like to emphasize the following.Obviously, challenging economic environment offset a bit in terms of coming up with new products, innovations, and services. Driving productivity as we never drove productivity before.All of that resulting in increasing free cash flow, improving the debt ratio, and continue to drive on capital efficiency, and we'll talk a little bit about that later. We feel confident about our business model, and expect to see our revenues grow. And when they grow, our margins will expand. Once the economy rebounds because we've taken a lot of systemic cost out of the business.Okay. Let's now turn to 2002, and we'll talk a little bit about our revised financial outlook.Before I get into numbers, I would like to renew the outlook for the remainder of the year by talking about our base assumptions and what has changed. I mentioned this before, let me say it again.With respect to the economy, we originally were looking for some improvement in the second half, with the first half continuing the slow trends of the second half of last year. Clearly at this point we haven't yet seen that change occur. We've not yet stabilized our growth in key areas, and we continue to look at this, and as a result we basically have said that we are going to look for a flat revenue forecast for the remainder of the year. We still have a few issues that are outstanding from our last update.Proceeding along with our insurance recovery from September 11th as planned, we anticipate an impact no greater than it was last year for September 11th. As you know, as I said earlier, FAS-142 has been decided, and as a result, we expect 14 cents a share annual benefit from the discontinuing of amortization of goodwill and wireless licenses. If you look at the New York muni pricing and retail pricing that was unknown since the last update, that has been determined, and results in a negative $40 million impact for the year. As you can see from this quarter, we continue to focus on cost efficiency.We'll talk more about that later.We anticipate to receive most of our next wave deposit back during the course of the next several weeks, and we will save some interest expense and reduce debt as a result of that. And our guidance for international information services has certain nonstrategic assets.I will focus on balancing our balance sheets remains, and we're off to a good start.Let's take a look at the 2002 guidance numerics and slide 26. Like any other industry, we've reassessed where we are after the first quarter. And we realized that we are a little bit too optimistic in our assumptions, particularly as it related to revenue growth. We now see revenue growth flat to about 1% for the year. EPS in the range of 312 to 317, that's about 4 to 6% growth from last year. And CAP-X we're reducing by a billion dollars to somewhere in the range of 14 and $15 billion. If you go to slide 27, let me take you through how we bridge to the bottom line EPS numbers from our previous guidance based on the revenue shortfall that we're experiencing. Basically, the revenue is going to be somewhere between the 2 to 2.5 billion. And through expense savings, some of which comes as result of just decreased revenue, and some more systemic, and real stick-to-the-ribs $500 million expense savings, we can offset the revenue shortfalls somewhere between 1.6 and 1.9. And this pretax equates to 14 to 22 cents.That gives you a number of somewhere between 8 and 13 cents. So the new range is in the target of 312 to 317.If we go to slide 28, as I said, we are cutting our capital program by a billion.Wireless takes approximately 200 million of that. telecom 700 million, primarily in voice and demand-related areas. And international information services incorporate about 100 million.I want to highlight that other than the economy, on the wireless side, we were able to make these cuts due to the efficient network integration plan that we've developed.The conversion strategies working, and we feel confident we'll be able to meet our demand even with these cuts.I want to get to your questions, so I will be very brief here if we go to slide 28. Again, execution, execution, execution. What we tried to do here is demonstrate the sustainability of our cost performance, and as we went into the current economic climate, we don't believe that this performance is anywhere indicative of our long-term outlook.We will continue to execute on the fundamentals which is elicited on this chart, position Verizon, participate in a growth in economy when it picks up.And we'll be there to benefit because the actions we're taking right now that will enhance productivity and reduce cost also provide us enormous leverage on the upside when the economy turns.So with that, what I would like to do is maybe now turn this over to the Q&A period, John, and take the questions from the audience. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Okay. Operator, we're ready for questions. Do we have a question? 

 OPERATOR: At this time I would like it remind everyone in order to ask a question, please press star, and then the number 1 on your telephone keypad.By pressing star 1 more than one time, it will take your question out of cue.We will now pause for a moment to compile the Q&A roster. PAUSE]Your first question comes from Simon Flannery with Morgan Stanley. 

 SIMON FLANNERY, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Good morning.Thanks a lot.I was wondering if you would talk about your plans for the enterprise segment on the data side given some of the issues that MFN, and ingenuity. Where are you with the customers with long distance today, and what are we likely to see over the next several quarters? 

 FRED SALERNO: Good morning, Simon. Ivan is here and he will take questions along with me. Ivan, can you take this one? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Okay, Simon.I think that the way we think about this is that our current approach is to focus on the general business customer and the slightly larger mid-size customer as part of our long distance entry.And there we're probably getting in the vicinity of 10 to 15% share of those lines as we go forward. We're in the process of conducting an internal review of our entire enterprise capability, which obviously includes anticipated what we do with [INAUDIBLE] later in the year. Our focus there has been to look at the network capability that we have put together in terms of our data network in franchise, look at the additional capability we've put together with our GSI business which gives us connectivity to what we would consider to be international city POPs, and here in the U.S. you have three of them, and in Europe you have a bunch of those. We're also blending in the focus that [INAUDIBLE] has in their network. And sometime in the middle of the year, as we get through the last couple of 271s, we'll be in a position to bring all of that together, look at the synergies that we can drive across our entire business, make sure that [INAUDIBLE] continues to make the progress it's making in its business plan to get EBITDA positive toward the end of the year, and then we'll be in a position to move further up the value chain and the customer segment and begin to serve more of what we would call the tier-2, and tier-one domestic business customers, the hospitals, city governments, state governments, regional banks, those kind of customers. And we're very well positioned to move up the chain this is a process issue for us this year, and it's really a '03 -- an issue that we think will contribute in the second and third quarter in 2003. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: So you want to do more work with the capabilities you have rather than buy any companies making the acquisitions? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Yeah.That's what we've been saying for a while now. I don't think that there are any assets out there that help us a great deal at this point. But, you know, if thingschange, we'll take a look. We're very comfortable with the assets that we have. 

 SIMON FLANNERY: Thanks a lot. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, next question? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Your next question comes from Frank with Goldman Sachs. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Two quick questions. In those States where you've had a long distance approval for a while, have you been able to stop toll revenue erosion? And I will follow up with another question if you will just answer that. 

 FRED SALERNO: Without a doubt two things.Number one, toll revenue has gone up. And number two, win-backs exceed outpicks. It will continue to go up. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: And second thing, Fred, also sort of focusing on revenue, when we look at DSL in fourth quarter you provision that at a rate of 3,500 a day. And the first quarter went to 2,300 a day.And two elements almost to this. First, is this a function of a slowdown in promotion activity? And, second, shouldn't we expect to see acceleration the second half of the year which will sort of leverage off of your increase provisioning capability the fact that you probably hit critical mass in terms of scale, and wanting to respond more aggressively to the cable companies?And will that require a significant promotion?I know you are doing some in New York now, and I wondered if you might expand that. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Frank, let me answer that.Here is the theory of our case. In the fourth quarter, we had a significant promotion of 2995. What we did was get a big bumpup. Before we embark on a whole new series of promotions, we would like to hit the market with new products and new valuated services. So the issue is what you will see is new promotions will start, but we would like to couple that with some new product introductions. You know, Fred talked about a couple of them, the home LAN, a music package that we're going to introduce for people.We have a whole bunch of stuff. The difference in the way our approach is to cable, if all we end up doing is discounting to compete with cable, I don't think that we create the kind of value for everybody. But if what we do we drive some promotions, introduce new products, dive another promotion, we can keep raising the water level here for the entire base. So I think that when you -- what you should look for beginning in the second quarter sometime is another set of promotions that will coupled with the products we've been introducing. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: And what level do you think the capability scales out at the moment? Is there anyone that meted 3,100 a day in the first quarter which I think would be peak? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: The way I would answer that is as the maintenance rate goes down, and as the help desk gets better, I don't think we have any limitations on the people that we need to bring people in the front door.So I think that this is a total process issue for us.And we feel really good about the progress that our people have made in terms of provisioning down the five days, down to three days,meantime repairs are up, the uptime on the network is up. All of this can contribute.This is really the function of finding the right price with the right set of products to [INAUDIBLE] more penetration in the markets. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Great. Thank you. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, next question. 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Your next question comes from Van. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Thanks.Actually, two questions. The first one is I guess for Fred. Do you have any statistics on -- and this is trying to get at the economy issue. Do you have any quantification of calls coming in, volume of calls coming in to the business centers, and sort of what degree of change there has been in that over the last year or so?And how that's trending?And then the other question is for Ivan, last time we talked you predicted -- you said you weren't interested in acquiring Worldcom, and you thought it would be cut in half in price.That's what's happened. That happened in the last month or two. So I thought I would ask to you revisit the question that you touched on a little bit already.But is there a price, a there a value at which some of theseeither long distance or wireless companies have start to become interesting to you? Do you think strategically that's required? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Well, since you decide who answers which question, maybe Fred and I will reverse. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Well, we will read into that as evasion. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: We don't evade anything.The volumes are down. Obviously, they're down. But they're shifting. Remember, the traditional calls into the business office associated with access lines are down, because access lines are down particularly in the general business market.But then there are lots of calls going into the DSL centers and stuff. But overall, we wouldn't have been able to reduce people if we didn't have lower volumes.The other thing is, remember, we've driven significant new volumes in the 29.95 promotion in DSL. Fred, if you have anything else on the volume.But, there is no question that there is a shifting going on in the business. We're also seeing more electronically. So I think that the other point that I would make is if you are interested in the subsequent, we'll have to do more analysis to make sure that we explain that while some of the business is going away because of the economy, it's all not going away, it's shifting to different forms.With respect to the other question, you know, from an industry perspective, I feel that -- I am frustrated and disappointed that the overall industry is in a lot of companies are facing so many difficulties because we all get painted with the same brush.I think perhaps it's time to take some of the companies out of the penalty box.When I look at potential partners for us, we have to keep coming back to the fact that when we created Verizon, we thought we had enormous capabilities that would allow us to move forward without any other major transactions.You raised the point that at some point price gets in the picture, and maybe there is an opportunity. I am not sure that when you look at the financial situation of a lot of these companies, the heavy pricing that they're involved with, you know, you look at the new packages coming out, I am not so sure that I see the bottom of stability in the assets that are out there that would make it worthwhile for us to really look at. We've worked hard at trying to add value, and avoid the downward spiral on pricing. I am not sure the rest of the industry is following the same pattern.So our view of this is we'll always keep an eye out, we'll try to be opportunistic because that's what we've done the last five years, but we like to hang with what we have now, and we'll keep focusing on the things that Fred, you know, emphasized in his remarks, particularly our balance sheet, particularly winning new customers, and particularly continuing to focus on efficiencies. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Just a follow up. Were your comments directed at long distance, or were they directed at long distance and wireless? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: They're directed at everything because I believe that you have to look at this industry in totality. I don't think there are any segments anymore. I think you have to look at the whole picture.And I feel that we're one of the stronger companies. Obviously I am very frustrated with the fact that we're not delivering more value to ourshareholders, but as Fred said, we're going to continue to focus on the things that we control, and we believe that the quality of that will win out over time. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Thanks. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, next question? 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Adam Quinton with Merrill Lynch. 

 ADAM QUINTON, MERRILL LYNCH: Guys, did you a particularly good job in the quarter of generating cash, and a key contributor to that was CAP-X was down for the quarter. To get to your CAP-X guidance for the full year on average every quarter for the rest of the year are you to do something like 4 billion which is a big step up from the 2.4.So I wonder if you could comment on whether there are any specific items that took CAP-X down to relatively low levels in the first quarter, and how you expect CAP-X to trend through the balance of the year?Will it be relatively linear,or would you expect to see significant quarter-by-quarter moves? 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Adam, let me give you the process answer, and Fred will give you the real details here.The way we think about capital, this is important perspective because it's a philosophy that we have.We've been building so much capacity and productivity and process improvements into our business that every once in awhile you get a surprise up in terms of not having to spend where you've been making the improvements.In our case, our maintenance numbers are down because we've been improving the plant. We have all sorts of issues with respect to [INAUDIBLE] in our it areas, our logistics, our cost of acquisition gets better.I think we're seeing the benefits of the past four or five quarters going forward.What we'll continue to do is look for those process improvements. And if we can reduce the run rate, we will. But what we won't do is preannounce extraordinarily big drops simply because what do you is you don't take advantage of the growth as you begin to see it developing.So we still have some spending in front of us on DSL if we can ever get some of these regulatory issues straightened out.We still want to continue to focus on LD. We still want to really focus on new billing systems, and we want to focus on wireless which has a tremendous amount of opportunity for growth.So you are correct in pointing out that if you looked at the first quarter run rate, you can come up with a lower number for the year, but I will let Fred comment on that.But our view is to continue to manage the capital program in the process orientation that we have, and I believe that we'll continue to see goodprogress. 

 FRED SALERNO: Yes.And let me follow up on a couple of those points.Number one, we have been doing a very good job of controlling cash expense. As you know, we're a very high-fixed-cost business.When you eliminate cash expense, and we're eliminating if you look at our bridge chart towards the end, you see that we're taking 2.5 billion, and 1.9 billion out of expense. Most of that expense that we took out is cash expense. And that's like an 80% ratio.When you look at our fixed costs, we have 30% of our expense of fixed cost. Actually, if you look at the new metrics, you drive more cash just by taking out the cash expense in the business. So that's one of the things that helped the first quarter. Second thing that helped the first quarter will help all four is the economic stimulus package that was passed that's going to generate significant amount of cash for us. And as other companies. And third thing is that the pacing of the capital program is one of the leverages that we have in our business. We've said that we're going to carefully monitor that.I can tell you that Denny Strigl in Wireless, and Mike in international are looking that the as one of the major levers they would use.Now, what is the number likely to be? It's likely between 14 and 15 billion, but if this economy continues to be -- drag out a little longer in terms of recovery, then we expect that is something that we'll operate on.So I don't think that you just multiply this quarter by 4 and get the capital program.But nor do I think you should say that we're going to makeup the shortfall in the fourth quarter by increasing it in the next two or three. We'll use that as a lever. 

 ADAM QUINTON: Thank you. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, we have time for one more question. 

 OPERATOR: Your final question comes from Blake with Lehman Brothers. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Good morning.I guess two questions. The first with respect to Wireless, you've absolutely been taking the high road in terms of the trade-off between profitability and market share.I am wondering how your mind-set is changing? Certainly some of the smaller players continue to have much higher levels of gross ads.At what point do you decide to focus much more aggressively on taking market share?And secondly, with respect to business access lines, I guess if my memory serves me in past economic expansions, business access lines have grown 6 to 8%, whereas during economic down periods you've seen flat to declining business access lines. Given the change in the business, and sort of the move towards more of a data economy, where do you think that industry business access lines go once the economy starts adding jobs again? Thanks. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG: Let me, if you don't mind, Fred, the first question is that even those companies that appear to be driving the old measure of net ads hasn't helped our stock prices a lot.It seems to me that my mind-set is to continue to support what has been, which is to focus on quality.Fred did talk about for the quarter the rolling out the 1x. We introduced the America One Choice plan. I don't know if you are familiar with this, but this is kind of this whole dial up into this little database and you can download games and drive usage.And our view is we're trying to make the value proposition to get more people into the higher-bundled plans.And we'll take care of net ads as we go forward. I think that net ads will improve in the next quarter, because I think we've got focus on that. Maybe some promotions on handset pricing. But, Blake, I don't think that our mind-set is to turn around and buy shares at cheap prices and lower the credit scoring so low that we end up with a bigger problem with respect to the quality of our base.So that's one thing. Now, in terms of business lines, it's a fair question.I don't know that we have a simple answer because as you go forward, people buy DS-1s, and DS-3s a lot more than they buy simple access lines.It's not clear to me when we do the math, if you just looked at traditional business access lines, we would know how to measure that in the same way. I am going to take a pass on that question.And we're going to think about it, because my view is that if you look at the inventory that we've been building, the data transport is up big time, and so I think there is a much bigger shift in the way business customers use the facilities than the simple business access line measure.Let me think about that, and we'll try to come up with a better description of that question. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Great. Fair enough. Thank you. 

 JOHN DIERCKSEN: Operator, that concludes our call. I appreciate everybody being on it, and thank you very much. Bye now. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
   NS
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021231dy4n000cj
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q4  2001  Verizon  Communications Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
2,272 words
   PD
31 January 2002
   ET
02:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . John Dearkson [phonetic], Senior VP, Investor Relations   . Fred Salerno, Vice-Chairman and CFO   . Ivan Seidenberg, President and co-CEO 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Financial Results: adjusted EPS of $0.77 in Q4 and $3.00 in FY01; full-time headcount reduction of 16,000 in the year.  Guidance for 2002: revenue growth of 3-5% and EBITDA growth of 7-9% to be based on new products and services and cost containment.  Q&A focus: sector details. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. Operational Review   1. Note: we are in a 'quiet period' with regard to Verizon      Wireless.   2. Overview:     1. 2001 was "challenging year."     2. Positioning for 2002: in 2001, protected and grew revenue        base; aggressively pursued market share; are introducing 1XRTT        technology in wireless segment to drive growth.     3. Improving margins and profitability of whole business. 4. 2001 saw "industry-leading cost containment" due to GTE and Bell Atlantic synergies.     5. Focus remains on balance sheet and cash flow.   3. Q4 Financial Results:     1. Adjusted EPS for Q4: $0.77, flat with 4Q00. Excluding $0.03        related to 9/11, EPS is $0.80, 3.9% up from 4Q00. Charge for        9/11: $0.06 for FY01.     2. Consolidated adjusted revenues for Q4: $17b, up 1%.     3. Operating income: up 1.8%, excluding 9/11.     4. EBITDA: up 4.8%.  EBITDA margins would have been 42.7%        excluding 9/11, a 150bp improvement over last year.     5. Cash expenses for Q4: down 0.3%; would have been minus 1.7% without 9/11; decrease primarily due to Telecom, where cash expenses decreased 4.6% and 6.9% without 9/11.   4. FY01 Financial Results:     1. Adjusted EPS for FY01: $3.00, a 3.1% increase; includes $0.06        for 9/11.     2. Revenue growth adjusted for Verizon Wireless JV [phonetic]:        4.1% for FY01.     3. Operating income growth: 6.5%; excluding 9/11, would have been        8.5%.     4. EBITDA for FY01 adjusted for Wireless JV [phonetic]: 7.4%, or        8.4% without 9/11.     5. EBITDA margins: up 140bp; excluding 9/11, up 180bp.     6. Cash expense for FY01, adjusted for Wireless JV [phonetic]: up        1.7%, or 1% without 9/11.  Major driver was decrease in        Telecom.   5. Operational highlights:     1. Pleased with progress on LD, DSL, and Wireless.Leading peers        in LD on number of states receiving 271 approval; 7.4m        customers in FY01, up 59%.  Market share growing around        nation.     2. LD revenue: $1.3b.     3. Meeting requirements for 271 approval; more states set to come        in 2002.   6. DSL: "a real success story in 2001."     1. Best quarter ever; added 225,000 customers, to total of 1.2m,        an increase of 122% over 2000.  Result of improvements in        processing and network reliability.     2. Deployed DSL to central offices serving 79% of total audience;        in those offices, a loop qualification rate [phonetic] of 53%,        covering 50% of all Verizon households. 7. Wireless:     1. 29.4m customers, the "best quality base" of customers in peer        group - 94% are contract customers.     2. Cash expense growth for FY01: 1%, with actual decrease of        1.7%; both numbers include 9/11 effect.Represents        improvement toward end of year (improvements in installation,        repair, printing expenses); most important, reduced full-time        headcount by over 16,000.  With full time equivalent in        Telecom, number is more than 29,000. 

 B. Financial and Sector Review   1. Adjusted earnings in Q4: $2.1b, or $0.77/share; on a reported      basis, without adjustments for non-operational items, saw loss      of $2b, or $0.75/share.   2. Cash-related charges:     1. Severance charge of $0.37, comprised of $1b expenses, mostly        in Domestic Telecom.     2. Next year: $0.11 charge for getting out of certain businesses.   3. Non-cash charges: 1. Loss on securities: $0.71.  We wrote up many of these investments in 2000, normalized them out, and are taking        charges for decrease in valuation.  Charge of $1.25b, or        $0.46/share, for Genuity [phonetic].  Charge of $682m, or        $0.25/share, for securities we hold.  International        restructuring: $0.24/share, mostly associated with CTI in        Argentina.  Transition costs: $0.07; these charges will        probably end at end of 2002.   4. Telecoms Q4 highlights:     1. Revenue down 3.6% for Q4, and 0.6% for FY01, due to        competition, substitution, and economy.     2. Encouraged by flattening of access line loss in consumer        segment, but see declining trend in business access lines.        Expect business access line growth will improve with economy.     3. Long distance revenue up 3.5% in Q4; reflects first increase        in combined Intralatta [phonetic] toll.Result of success in        market and reverse in Intralatta [phonetic] losses, with        win-back of 160,000 lines.     4. In Q4, had $200m less in CPE-related revenues; this is a supply contract, and we are decreasing emphasis on low-margin business.     5. Mandated rate reductions caused $77m impact in Q4 and $664m in        year.   5. Regulatory agenda: pressing for parity for comparable services;      it should promote facility-based investments. Have seen      regulatory price reductions.  To break out of this, need whole      new regulatory structure based on economics.   6. Revenue drivers and new Telecoms products:     1. Will roll out long distance in Bell Atlantic states, increase        penetration in current 40 states, complete 271 in 2002 - New        Jersey, with 7m lines, is next big state.     2. Vertical service revenues grew; packages of retail services        grew 47%, with revenues up almost 78% in quarter.     3. New products and services: in consumer, focusing on bundling, retention, and win-back.  Plans to add DSL and Wireless to packages, with discounts for taking more services.     4. Telecom expenses: down 2.3% for Q4, or 4% excluding 9/11.     5. Telecom cash expenses: down 4.6% and 6.9%, primarily due to        process improvement and headcount reductions.   7. Data growth drivers:     1. Revenues over $1.8b in Q4, driven by 14% data transport services.     2. DSL equivalents up 31% QonQ.     3. VGE equivalents grew 13% QonQ.   8. Wireless Q4 highlights:     1. Revenues up 8.8%. 2. Cash expense per subscriber down 6.1%.     3. 220bp margin improvement for Q4 and 80bp margin improvement        for year.     4. EBITDA growth: 15.3%.     5. Expenses down because of lower roaming expenses and        productivity improvements.   9. Underlying trends: 1. Subscription: up 9.8%.     2. Digital subscribers: 22m, representing 75% of base, a 57%        growth during year.     3. When fully allocate prior year, from previously announced        subscriber adjustments, growth rate is 12%.     4. Net adds in Q4: 715,000, but added almost 850,000 contract        retail subscribers.     5. Total services RPU [phonetic] down 2%, due to better roaming agreements.     6. Access and usage revenues per subscriber increased. 7. Churn rate 2.7% in Q4; for contract subscribers, rate is 2.1%, which bodes well because have 26m contract subscribers.   10. International Q4 Results:     1. Consolidated revenues up 13.9%.     2. EBITDA up 4.8%.     3. Equity income up 38.5% to $234m.     4. Proportionate wireless subscribers up 22.8% to almost 10m.     5. QonQ net income increased 25%.   11. Information services Q4 results:     1. Revenue growth driven by traditional services and Superpages [phonetic], where revenue up 80%     2. Expenses down 5.7%.     3. EBITDA margins: up 560bp to 57.5%(51.9%).     4. EBITDA margins for year: 55%.  "We feel this is sustainable        for 2002."     5. Operating cash flow from information services: $2.3b.   12. Highlights of 2001:     1. LD gained 2.7m new customers.     2. 271 process moving along.     3. Added 660,000 new DSL subscribers and improved processing.     4. Reduced full-time headcount by 16,000 (plus 13,000 full time        equivalent) and saved over $900m - on track for $2b in merger        synergies by 2003.     5. 1XRTT added to product lineup. 6. International connectivity initiative moving forward.     7. Accretive acquisition of TeleAdvertising Services [phonetic].   13. Didn't sacrifice quality to cost-cutting: received JD Power and Associates awards for Verizon Wireless; other sector      improvements. 

 C. 2002 Guidance   1. Revenue growth to be fuelled by new products; will fund      strategic growth initiatives as in 2001, especially in Wireless,      LD, DSL, data transport.   2. Revenue growth: 3-5%, driven by Wireless International.   3. Telecom: flat to slightly positive, levelling out in business      lines in second half of year. Does not include PRTC (which will      be closed), which would bring it up 200bp.   4. EBITDA growth: 7-9%, based on containing cash costs.   5. EPS: $2.20-2.30, representing 6.7-10% growth rates.   6. Capex: $15b-16b, down from 2001 and 2000.   7. Long distance: Ended 2001 with 7.4m subscribers; targeting over      10m subscribers by end of 2002. 8. DSL: 1.8m-2m by end of 2002.   9. EPS details: range is wider than usual because of lack of      visibility on issues including World Trade Center, insurance      recovery, government funding, New York state retail increase,      goodwill amortization, general economic recovery. 10. Have asked FCC for $1.7b deposit back, but haven't had final action yet.   11. Have not built in any numbers for additional spectrum from FCC      in 2002.   12. Summary for 2002:     1. New products and services.     2. Improving profitability and efficiency, strengthening balance        sheet.     3. Good management team. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1. (Adam Quentin, Merrill Lynch)  Details on capex reduction for 2002?  Details on write-down of  Genuity [phonetic]?  Comment on pension credit situation? 

 A.  (1) Wireless flat YonY, telecoms down a couple billion, with increases in new products and services.  (2) Pensions about $0.09, already built into cash assumptions. (3) Took Genuity down to perceived year-end market value, from $3.15 to about $1.40-1.50. 

 Q2. (Follow-on)  Have you written down outstanding Genuity loan, or just equity? 

 A.  Just the equity. 

 Q3. (Rob Davis, PSAN [phonetic])  Options for Verizon Wireless? 

 A.  Short answer to your question is that all options are open.  With 1XRTT rollout, we bought ourselves time and increased capacity; even in most dense markets, we have 18-24 months clear.  This will give  us a chance to sort options of acquisitions or leases.  If we spend  money on spectrum we still have IPO registration out there and will  decide what to do based on market conditions. 

 Q4. (Follow-on)  [Indiscernable].  Details on evaluation of spectrum? 

 A.  Valuations for spectrums have come down.  I don't want to say how much we would spend, but from time of auction to now, market values  of publicly-traded wireless companies are down 40-50%.  With  spectrum cap being lifted, and uncertainty about next wave issue,  and with the fact that Verizon Wireless is one of the premiere  franchises - we're in a good position. 

 Q5. (Jack Grubman, Salomon Smith Barney)  Clarification on goodwill and amortization: does guidance include  FAS 142?  What is cause of EBITDA growing faster than revenue?  View  of acquisition of assets of bankrups companies? 

 A.  (1) We built in $0.07 for goodwill and nothing for amortization. (2) On cost control, we're driving EBITDA with headcount reduction  and merger synergies, and we're getting more efficient at bringing  in new products and services.In 2003, the critical mass we're  building in DSL and wireless will contribute to EBITDA.  (3) We  don't want to dabble in this area again unless we're sure assets are  at true value. 

 Q6. (Mark Crossman, JP Morgan)  Data strategy as it relates to 271? Have you seen expansion as you  move into regional side of business? 

 A.  Strategy has been to build network infrastructure and then offer products and services to increase market share.  We built a robust end-region network [phonetic] that will help us capture services we couldn't get because we weren't through 271 process.  We will be aggressive in 2002. 

 Q7. (Follow-on)  What about regionally - such as New York?  Have you seen any  traction [phonetic]? 

 A.  Yes, but large customers have demands beyond their New York state. We can increase revenues a great deal when we get 271.  We're still doing well selling transport, but gating factor is handling traffic; real focus will be on domestic business market - we only have a  couple more states.  In second half of year, should be in a better  position to compete. 

 Q8. (Simon Flannery, Morgan Stanley)  Carriers have said Q1 will be weak - what are your forecasts? 

 A.  Q1 telco revenues down, Q2 down less than Q1.Revenue increase for year driven by services like LD and DSL, so will see growth over  year, ramping up to Q3 and Q4.  Similar projections for wireless and  other sections of business. 

 Q9. (Blake Bath, Lehman Brothers)  On wireless: how much is wireless replacement affecting you?  In  places where you don't have a telco, do you have a wireline  cannibalization strategy?  On long distance, what is earnings impact  of Intralatta [phonetic] business? 

 A.  Wireless minutes are substituting for additional lines, but we've seen flattening of losses on residential side.  Business side is  more tied to economy.Strategy on wireless is to build a stable  base and then vertically grow revenues.  Out of footprint: strategy  is to work aggressively on bundled minutes, data, and go after  business market; driving market share by cannibalizing other guys. 

 Q10. (Follow-on)  Is that a high-return business? 

 A.  Yes; the capital you spend vertically is a good investment.  In Europe, they've had good success with data revenues.  On long distance: in the West, we're profitable now.  In mature states,  we're profitable.  2002 is an active year in LD; we will not be  profitable overall for LD, but will see profitability and EBITDA  growth starting in 2003. 

   CO
belatt : Verizon Communications Inc. | verzw : Verizon Wireless
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1v00192
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=verizon not hd=event and co=vz
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
43
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 9:05 AM GMT
  
