 
•	 Q3 2016 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 JPMorgan Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2005 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2003 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2003 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2003 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q1 2003 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 J P MORGAN CHASE & CO Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q2 2002 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2002 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q1 2002 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
7,824 words
   PD
14 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's third-quarter 2016 earnings call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.

At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Good morning everyone. I am going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.

Please refer to the disclaimer at the back of the presentation. Starting on page 1 and taking a look at the quarter we had strong performance in each of our businesses despite the continuation of reasonably challenging conditions.

Bringing it all together this quarter's result was clean with no significant items and with the firm reporting net income of $6.3 billion, EPS of $1.58 and the return on tangible common equity of 13% on $25.5 billion of revenue. Highlights of the quarter include the highest reported revenue for a third quarter in CIB with IBCs up 15% and markets revenues up 33% with strong performance across the board.

Robust core loan growth for the Company of 15% on the back of sustained demand across businesses. And the continuation of strong credit performance including a net release for Oil & Gas.

Card sales are back to double-digit growth year on year and we saw a strong positive market reaction to new proprietary products. Finally, we had record consumer deposit growth up 11%.

Before I move on we recently submitted our 2016 resolution filing. The Board and management believes that we submitted a credible plan and more than met the requirements for the October submission. It was a tremendous effort across the Company involving all businesses and functions and we took many significant actions, perhaps most notably improving the firm's overall liquidity and pre-positioning our material legal entities for both liquidity and capital.

We determined this is in the best interest of the Company, albeit at some cost. We took many other important actions which hopefully you've had the chance to review in our public filings.

Moving back to the quarter and moving on to page 2 revenue of $25.5 billion was up $2 billion year on year or up 8%. On the back of continued strong growth in core loans net interest income was up $700 million and is trending for the full year to be above the $2.5 billion guided last quarter.

Non-interest revenue was up $1.3 billion driven by strong performance in the CIB. Adjusted expense of $14.5 billion was up $500 million both year on year and quarter on quarter, largely driven by two notable expense items in Consumer which I'll talk about later as well as the increase in FDIC surcharge which took effect this quarter and some higher marketing expense.

Credit cost of $1.3 billion in the quarter includes Consumer reserve builds of $225 million primarily Card. But against that we have a net reserve release in wholesale for Oil & Gas of about $50 million.

So as I said net income was $6.3 billion. And while down 8% year on year you will recall that there were a number of significant items in last year's results, most notably significant tax benefits. If you adjust for tax, legal expense and credit reserves net income is up over $800 million year on year.

Dealing with Oil & Gas here, we are encouraged by how quickly investor sentiment and risk appetite for the sector returned as the outlook for both oil and gas prices continued to improve. Capital markets opened more broadly to these clients and we experienced lower draws against our facilities than previously anticipated.

So a combination of paydowns, opportunistic loan sales and select upgrades more than offset the impact of downgrades. If the environment remains broadly consistent with today we would not expect further significant builds in the fourth quarter for energy.

Moving to page 3 and capital, key takeaways from this page, capital and leverage ratios were broadly flat quarter on quarter with a CET1 ratio of 11.9% as net capital generation was offset by strong loan and commitment growth. Our spot balance sheet closed a little over $2.5 trillion, principally a result of strong deposit growth as well as liability actions taken to raise liquidity in the context of resolution which also drove up liquid assets.

While HQLA was up $23 billion quarter on quarter, our liquid assets were up significantly more than that as excess liquidity at the Bank is not included in reported HQLA. Finally, we returned $3.8 billion of net capital to shareholders including $2.1 billion of net repurchases and common dividends of $0.48 a share.

Moving on to page 4 and Consumer & Community Banking. Consumer & Community Banking generated $2.2 billion of net income and an ROE of 16%. We continue to experience record deposit growth, more than twice the industry average, up 11% year on year.

More than half of that growth is from existing customers. Based on the FDIC survey for 2016 we were number one in absolute growth and grew share in each of our top 30 markets.

Core loan growth remained strong at 19%. And while it's primarily driven by Mortgage we also saw 14% growth in Auto, 9% in Business Banking and 7% in Card loans.

Card new account originations were up 35% with strong demand for Sapphire Reserve and Freedom Unlimited and with more than three-quarters of new accounts being opened through digital channels. Card sales volume was up double digits this quarter and we expect share gains to accelerate.

So to close on drivers, we saw merchant processing volumes up 13% and our active mobile customer base up 17%. Revenue of $11.3 billion was up 4% year on year. Consumer & Business Banking revenue was also up 4% on the back of strong deposit growth.

Mortgage revenue was up 21% on higher MSR risk management but also on higher production margins and growth in NII as we continue to add high quality loans to our portfolio. Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto revenue was down 1% as the strong momentum in Card and Auto volumes and balance growth was offset by higher Card origination costs and the remaining impact of co-brand renegotiations. And while the new account origination costs do cause a near-term drag on revenue it's a high-class problem to have as we expect these accounts will be strongly accretive over time.

Looking forward, assuming strong demand for Sapphire Reserve through the fourth quarter we would expect revenues for CCSA to be down about $200 million quarter on quarter on higher acquisition costs. But it will clearly be dependent on the number of new accounts originated.

Expense of $6.5 billion is up year on year, as I said, driven by two notable items totaling $175 million as well as the increased FDIC surcharge. The first item relates to liabilities assumed from a merchant in bankruptcy and the second is a modest increase in reserves for mortgage servicing. Underlying this expense performance is an incremental investment of $250 million in marketing and auto lease growth which is in line with Investor Day guidance and largely self-funded with expense efficiency.

Finally, the credit environment remains favorable. In Card we built $200 million of reserve this quarter, reflecting growth in the portfolio including newer vintages which have a higher loss rate than the portfolio average, consistent with our discussion during the second quarter and consistent with how we underwrite the loans. In Auto we built $25 million of reserves on the back of high-quality loan growth.

Now turning to page 5 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. Total revenues for CIB of $9.5 billion, up 16% year on year, was the best reported performance for a third quarter and included the highest IBCs on record for a third quarter, too, up 15%. With strong market performance across the board, revenues up 33%.

Expense was down 20% year on year on lower legal costs but also with strong expense discipline more broadly. Coupled with solid credit performance, including a modest reserve build for Oil & Gas here, the business delivered a pretty clean $2.9 billion of net income and a 17% ROE this quarter.

Diving deeper, IB revenue of $1.7 billion was up 14% year on year with strong performance across products. We ranked number one in global IDCs, maintaining share on a year-to-date basis, and ranked number one in North America and EMEA.

Advisory fees were up 8% year on year. And we continue to rank number two globally and have done more deals than anyone else so far this year.

In equity underwriting fees were up 38% year on year. With a stable market backdrop and strong investor demand issuance was up across products and particularly in IPOs.

We ranked number one in wallet globally and in North America and EMEA. And we also ranked number one on a number of deals basis for overall ECM and IPOs.

Debt underwriting had the highest third quarter on record with strong market-wide bond issuance, record high grade bond supply in August and yields near record lows. Fees were up 12% from a high water mark last year and we ranked number one.

In terms of outlook given the strength this quarter we expect IDCs to be down in the fourth quarter sequentially but relatively flat year on year. Markets revenue of $5.7 billion was up 33% year on year, clients were active and risk management conditions were favorable. Fixed income revenue was up 48% compared to a weaker third quarter last year.

Rates was a standout in terms of performance this quarter as markets stayed active post-Brexit with good client flow as well as anticipation of and uncertainty around central bank actions. Currencies in emerging markets matched a very strong third quarter last year but was slowed down slightly. Credit and securitized products came back from a weak prior period with a recovery in the energy sector and central bank actions motivating clients to put money to work, producing a much more constructive market making and new issuance environment, resulting in a particularly strong quarter.

Equities revenue was up 1% compared to a strong third quarter last year with Asia matching last year's strong performance and strength in North America flow derivatives offsetting weakness in cash volumes. Taking treasury services and security services revenues together, each were over $900 million with strong forward pipelines and levers to higher rates.

Moving on to page 6 and Commercial Banking. Commercial Banking reported record net income of $778 million on revenue of $1.9 billion and an ROE of 18%. Revenue was up 14% year on year driven by a trifecta of NII on loan growth, higher deposit spreads as well as higher IB revenues.

Loan growth continued to be strong across both C&I and CRE, outperforming the industry. C&I loans were up 10% year on year despite competition for quality loans as the investments that we've been making this year are delivering results. We've added over 100 net new bankers, opened seven new offices and further built out our specialized industry coverage and we've added nearly 600 new relationships in middle market this year.

CRE loans grew 19%, reflecting strong originations in both Commercial Term Lending and Real Estate Banking. We are also seeing favorable to improving new loan spreads.

IB revenue was up 57%, in part driven by a few large transactions, but bringing year-to-date IB revenues closer to flat versus last year which is a strong performance. Expense growth of 4% is driven by our investments and as I said these investments are already paying off.

Finally, credit performance remained strong with a net charge-off rate of 10 basis points, roughly half of which was driven by Oil & Gas. In addition, you see further reserve releases for Oil & Gas here as I mentioned earlier. Outside of energy, credit quality is good and the commercial real estate portfolio had no net charge-offs during the quarter.

Leaving the Commercial Bank and moving on to Asset Management on page 7. Asset Management reported net income of $557 million with a 29% pretax margin and an ROE of 24%. Revenue of $3 billion was up 5% year on year, driven primarily by strong banking results on higher loan and deposit spreads.

Expense of $2.1 billion was up slightly year on year and up 2% sequentially on higher incentive compensation. We saw positive long-term flows of $19 billion with strength in multi-asset, including the benefit of a large mandate this quarter, as well as inflows in alternatives and fixed income partially offset by outflows in equity products.

In addition, we were the beneficiaries of $22 billion of liquidity flows this quarter, capturing more than our share of money in motion given money market reform. AUM grew 4% and overall client assets 5% to $1.8 trillion and $2.4 trillion respectively, driven by market as well as long-term flows. Our long-term investment performance remained solid with 80% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.

Lastly, we have record loan balances of $114 billion, up 5% year on year driven by mortgage.

Skipping over page 8 and Corporate where the results were very close to home and where there are no significant items to highlight. So turning to page 9 and the outlook. Looking forward to the fourth quarter, expect net interest income to be up modestly quarter on quarter on continued strength in loan growth even as we digest the incremental cost of resolution-based liquidity actions, which will be fully in our run rate in the fourth quarter.

Expect non-interest revenue to be down quarter on quarter based upon our current outlook for IDCs and assuming flat year-on-year markets revenues also including higher Card acquisition costs and seasonally lower mortgages. All else equal, expect NIR to come in at $50.5 billion plus or minus for the full year, market dependent.

Finally, expect adjusted expense in the fourth quarter to be flat year on year, bringing full-year expense in at approximately $56 billion, consistent with our guidance and self-funding the Consumer items I mentioned.

So to wrap up, strong performance whichever way you look at it this quarter. We are continuing to demonstrate that our operating model and our platform is working for our clients, that our scale across businesses gives us operating leverage and that our investments through time are paying off.

And while at the Company we are proud of this quarter's performance and, in particular, proud of the growth in the underlying business drivers, we take a long-term disciplined view and remain focused on delivering excellent customer experience, strong execution, particularly in risk management and expenses, so that we can continue to deliver best-in-class performance.

With that, operator, please open up the line and we can take questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: -- from CLSA.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, can you talk about the competitive environment in capital markets? You had a strong growth. Is that due to better markets, better share or both?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I think there's three or four things to mention. The first is that I would say that the industry generally had a pretty weak third quarter last year. And so when you think about the year-over-year comparison we are a little flattered by last year's performance.

Not necessarily more so than our peers, but nevertheless we are. Then we talked about the fact that this quarter the conditions were relatively favorable broadly and compare and contrast that to last year where there were pockets of activity and client flow but there were also pockets where people were really sitting on their hands and not transacting. So I think client flow quite broadly across the environment would characterize the quarter.

In terms of the competitive performance I would say it feels like we did well. Obviously, we're the first to report, apart from Citi this morning. It feels like we did relatively well, so we may have gained some share.

Certainly, hopefully the momentum in terms of the business we've been building and the way we are serving our clients will service in that capacity, not just this quarter but through time. But, obviously, there can be a bit of volatility in the market share space. So we prefer to look at it more through time and we feel pretty good about the performance.

MIKE MAYO: Specifically versus the European banks, are you looking to use your balance sheet more to gain share?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say we don't specifically target a competitive set. But I will tell you that our balance sheet, we talked about it many times on this call before that we do have the capacity to put our balance sheet and our resources to work for our clients, for our best clients.

And we think about using those resources in the context of overall relationships. So if any period is more leverage constrained and has less access we may have competitive advantage. And certainly we will continue to make those resources available to our clients.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks very much. Curious on Card delinquencies ticking up. I know you've been guiding towards that but when you see it it's the only part of credit that has anything but great trends.

You mentioned on your comments newer vintages will have a higher loss rate than the portfolio average. Do you mind just drilling down a little bit more color on what exactly is driving that? Is that going down credit a little bit or is that just expected season as you'd thought?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I don't know, Glenn, if you recall that we had a bit of discussion about this last quarter and guided to the fact that we would expect to see our loss rates go up slowly, partly because, obviously, at 250-ish basis points I think we could call that pretty low historically. But also because over the course of the last couple of years we have been changing the mix of our originations a bit to the prime, near prime space, still completely within our credit risk appetite and at risk-adjusted margins that are better than the portfolio average.

So we are getting paid for that. So we are doing it within our risk appetite, doing it judiciously. But as a result, as those vintages become a higher percentage of our overall population they will have a gentle upward pressure on the charge-off rate.

So what we are seeing in terms of the delinquency uptick and the charge-offs, gradual increases completely in line with how we underwrote those loans and our expectations. And so as you look forward for us over the course of the next several quarters and we would expect those phenomena to generally continue, again, slowly. We are growing our portfolio, we are going to see the seasoning of those vintages as the mix increases and as they become more seasoned cause us to build a reserve but for the right reasons.

GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough. Fair enough. Just one follow-up.

If I could get just a high-level comment on has anything materially changed in terms of rate or curve sensitivity as you remix the portfolio? And as you are getting all this great loan growth I'm just curious on the current positioning.

MARIANNE LAKE: No, nothing significant, Glenn. No significant changes to our sensitivity.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. I had a question on the Card strategy, and I know we all know that you've created the closed loop and you are using that in part it seems to drive really efficient pricing in the marketplace on the credit card products.

What I'm obviously seeing is an increase in share on card issuance. You are taking some nice share in the merchant space, as well. I just want to understand what the goal is and how far you are willing to push this, market share versus ROA, ROE.

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say that all of the things that you mentioned, whether it's closed loop network, whether it's our new proprietary products, whether it's our investments in the technology platform and the business in merchant services are all at good returns that ultimately will drive the business to be profitable in the future as it has been in the past. So we haven't given specific guidance for ROE targets for this business but nothing has changed over the medium term for what we think that the performance of the business would be.

BETSY GRASECK: But is it fair to suggest that part of the market share improvement here is coming from some give-up of profitability and the underlying question is really how much market share do you want in this business? You are already at 18% to 22% market share of the credit card space depending on which numbers you want to use.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, it's a very competitive business and it's very profitable. So all other things being equal, we would like to continue to gain share.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Thanks, good morning. Marianne, you mentioned that part of the increase in Consumer cost this quarter was planned investments and that you are continuing to self-fund.

I'm just wondering as you think forward and we get past this good gear that you've had, will that be an underlying expectation for you guys, again with the understanding that the revenue environment will always take things up or down? But do you have an aspiration that you can continue to keep costs flat?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we haven't given specific cost guidance going out beyond this year at this point. But our objective will remain consistent with those that we stated previously which is we continue to try and become more efficient across our businesses.

As you know, we are at the tail end but not finished on a couple of large expense programs in our largest businesses so that we create capacity to be able to invest in the businesses broadly, whether that's in products, in marketing, in investment, in innovation, all of which we're doing as much as we can as long as we do it well. So it's going to come down to if we think we have investment opportunities that we can execute well that have an appropriate return we would like to keep doing that and in order to have the right to do it we would like to become more and more efficient in our core business operation.

So we haven't actually given guidance. I think I would characterize it as expenses under control creating capacity to invest. But we will decision investments based upon their merits and, obviously, explain them to you in the future at Investor Day, if not another venue.

KEN USDIN: Understood. And if I can come back to another investment day point from earlier this year, you had mentioned that you felt comfortable with an 11% CET1. You plan to get to your CET1 to 12%. You are at 12.1% now already.

Just within the construct of Governor Tarullo's recent commentary, does 11% still feel like the right time? Did you sense anything from the commentary that would change your philosophy around where you'd like to live in that potential comment you made at February to potentially go above 100 if, in fact, this was the right mechanism?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, first of all, I would say that based upon the speech and, obviously, you know that there are still some unanswered questions with respect to specific parts of the proposal which I will come back to, but based upon the speech moving to a baseline minimum standard is more consistent with how we think about our capital management policy. And using the capital stack add-up using, our G-SIB score and our stress drawdown actually you would come out with a capital constraint under CCAR that's pretty much on top of our regulatory capital minimum.

So in that sense because of the offset, because of the lack of balance sheet growth, lack of RWA growth and the curtailment of capital distributions, we've actually ended up in a place where we look to be approximately equally bound based on last year's test by both of those two measures, which is a space we've played in for a while. We've been, as we talked about before, we've been bound by many constraints, somewhat equally over a period of time and striving to operate within that constraint and maximize shareholder value.

I think the things we don't know are, obviously, how funding or liquidity shock will be incorporated. And in any case this is not for the 2017 CCAR cycle, so it's a whole cycle away from now.

So we will be operating in 2017 under the same basic test construct as we have previously. And so I don't think it's a clear and present danger necessarily that we will be able to look at payout ratios that are above the top end of our range. Meanwhile, we are at the top end of our range now.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Maybe just a quick follow-up on FICC in your commentary and maybe you can have a broader commentary around how the widening LIBOR or rising LIBOR yields helped your businesses across the board in FICC or anywhere else? Just help us understand how that's playing through the income statement.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so I would just generally speaking with respect to our rate sensitivity, as I think you know we are most sensitive to the front end of the curve but to IOER and prime. So we do have LIBOR-based assets but also liabilities.

A good example would be commercial loans on the asset side or long-term debt on the liability side. But our notional mismatch is not particularly big. And so as a consequence, the impact of LIBOR curve moves has been not very significant on our P&L, we wouldn't expect it to be.

I will say that the LIBOR moves were one of the features that our rates business had a perspective around. And they got good client flow in and around that trade.

And so it was one of the catalysts, one of many, but one of the catalysts that we point to in terms of the ability for rates to monetize flow as we had a lot of client flow around that conviction. But I wouldn't be able to put a number on it for you.

JIM MITCHELL: Fair enough and maybe just a follow-up on deposits. You guys have had very good trends in retail but on the institutional side there was quite a bit of flow looked like, as well. Any particular drivers there, was it money market performed helping the flows in institutional or something else?

MARIANNE LAKE: I think we, obviously, did get some good inflows, liquidity flows in terms of money market reform into our government fund. But we also have been very focused in our other wholesale businesses on continuing to attract operating deposits.

And so as I look at our overall strong deposit growth I wouldn't say it was equally but it was pretty much equally wholesale operating and retail deposit growth. So we feel good about both of those.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. In light of some of the selling issues over at Wells Fargo, I was just wondering if you've thought about reevaluating how you approach the consumer, how you compensate staff. And this was, obviously, not a JPMorgan-specific question, but just for the overall industry I think it's something folks are wondering about.

There's clearly some stuff that's black-and-white that you shouldn't do. But I think we also worry that there might be some gray areas that are somewhat less known. So just how are you thinking about the way you conduct business and compensate staff in light of what's going on?

MARIANNE LAKE: I might just give for context remind you all, or maybe you recall, that for a number of years now, for a fairly long time we've been standing up at Investor Day and other venues saying that customer experience is the central tenet for how we think about engaging with all of our clients but certainly our retail clients in the branches. And we have been very, very focused on investing in customer experience broadly defined and have made great progress, I think, in doing that.

And also we had talked about the fact that what we are looking for very, very clearly is deep customer relationships, engaged customers. We want to be primary bank. We want to gather deeper share of wallet.

So balance is not necessarily products. And so, again, remember saying that cross-sell is an outcome, it's not an objective. And that certainly is a philosophy with which we have designed our compensation and performance structures for the branches.

We review them regularly, at least annually to make sure that they continue to be aligned with our objectives and, again, objectives about the engaged relationship with customers, good customer experience in the right products, all the right reasons the right way. So as we think about those objectives and how we've designed our plan and as we look inwardly not just, obviously, because of the news now but also regularly in our BAU capacity we feel like our plans are designed to incent those behaviors.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that's helpful. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. Just a question you, back to CIB, you had a slide during Investor Day that showed a walk to $19 billion of expenses by 2017.

If some of the factors that you mentioned that drove revenues into CIB higher repeat for 2017 is that $19 billion number still achievable? Or I guess a better way to ask it, will any incremental revenue uplift from here fall to the bottom line?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say, first of all, I would say we, I will tell you, we are on track with respect to the commitments Daniel made to you to deliver over time the $2.8 billion of expense saves. While we are not finished yet we are substantially through that program. So it's moved from being a plan through execution to being in the later stages of execution.

So we feel very good about that, which means that all other things equal that $19 billion is still a reasonable level of expense target. However, obviously we pay for performance. And so clearly if we have significant out-performance next year relative to our expectations at the time of setting those plans, there would be some variable cost associated with it.

But for every dollar of out-performance the variable cost may not always be the same. So, obviously, it also depends upon the mix and payout ratios and all those sorts of things. But a large, large portion of it would be, it would be, obviously, as you know incredibly accretive because we would be leveraging all of our scale, so the only variable cost would really be comp, largely.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And just as a follow-up to that, a follow-up to Ken's question actually, he mentioned the stress capital buffer. Outside of the static balance sheet and capital distribution offset, is there an element to this in terms of just getting better at the test that you could do to reduce that stress capital buffer without actually taking risk down significantly?

MARIANNE LAKE: So first of all based upon last year's results for us we are at the floor for the stress capital buffer. Not to suggest, by the way, that we wouldn't continue to want to properly understand and better understand how we can through time make sure that we are performing the best we can under stress within our risk appetite. But we are at that floor right now.

So within those constraints what we are trying to do is be within our risk appetite, manage risk properly but also add shareholder value. We have to carry that capital anyway, so we would want to use it well.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

TIM HAYES, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Hi, this is Tim Hayes for Paul Miller. Can you give any color on your outlook for margin throughout 2017?

To me, Fed commentary suggests that rates could remain low and potentially hover around these levels over the next 12 months. So how can we think about your NIM in that type of scenario? And then what would a December rate hike do for your outlook?

MARIANNE LAKE: So for your purposes I'm going to talk about NII. We don't really manage to NIM. But you can, obviously, back into it.

So if we ended up in a situation right now where rates were flat throughout all of 2017 which for what it's worth I don't think is pretty much anyone's central expectation right now, but if we were rate flat you've seen us grow our core loans and our loan balances pretty strongly, pretty consistently across businesses. And while we may not be able to replicate our 15% core loan growth forever, certainly we can continue to grow our loans.

So on that plus mix shift away from securities over time we should be able to deliver $1.5 billion of incremental NII next year rate flat. You know that if rates are -- if we are fortunate enough for the right reasons that we see a hike this year, at the end of this year and get the full benefit of that next year, it will be higher than that. And you've seen our earnings and risk disclosures, they've been pretty close to a $3 billion number on a 100 basis point move for a while, most of which is front end.

TIM HAYES: Okay, thank you. And then switching gears, your CRE and C&I lending was pretty strong this quarter and regulators have, obviously, grown a little bit more cautious on those segments. So I was just if you could give any color for your outlook on lending to those segments going forward.

MARIANNE LAKE: So look, we are aware, obviously, of the riskier types of CRE lending, the types of lending that attract scrutiny for reasonable reasons considering how they've performed in past cycles. We are also mindful of where we are in the cycle and take that into consideration in our underwriting.

So we have and continue to avoid what I would characterize as the riskier segments and those segments that performed poorly in previous cycles. And we really stick to our knitting, if that's an American expression, in terms of continuing to do what we are good at within our risk appetite.

And so if you think about our commercial real estate growth, Commercial Term Lending is about three-quarters of our portfolio. And you know that we are very focused on smaller loan size, term B -- sorry, class B, class C properties with low vacancy rates. So rent stabilized, supply constrained markets, underwrite to low LTVs, good debt service coverage.

We look at forward rates and current rents. And so we really have an expertise in a specific niche and we compete on speed and certainty of execution, not on credit and structure.

So we feel pretty good about our exposures and even in our more traditional real estate banking space we have avoided the riskier segments with limited construction lending exposure, homebuilders minimal exposure. We are pretty disciplined about it.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks very much. Marianne, at a conference just before the end of the quarter another bank talked about improving underwriting conditions in the auto lending space, particularly in the mid to lower FICO range. Are you seeing anything similar?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we are a primarily prime lender in Auto. We are the number one prime lender.

We actually have the lowest share in subprime among the national banks. So it is less than 5% of our origination. So I wouldn't speak specifically to underwriting in the lower FICO sectors, not where we play at this point.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Sure, sure. I think the reference was to below 700 which includes the bottom end of the prime segment, which has been an area of intense competitive focus. I'm just wondering if you've seen anything in that segment?

MARIANNE LAKE: So not that I would comment on except for we have recently decided to pull back on 84-month plus term loans on all FICO bands, just as where we are in the cycle as we see the risks of that type of lending. So we continue to calibrate our underwriting. But I wouldn't comment on seeing anything specifically.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Got it. And is that influencing your reserve expectations for Consumer at all?

MARIANNE LAKE: Auto?

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Yes.

MARIANNE LAKE: We've built $25 million of reserves this quarter for Auto and we expect to continue. We think the Auto opportunity is still strong and we have a great franchise.

We have great manufacturing partnerships that are growing strongly, too. So as we grow that portfolio I would expect us to continue to grow reserves modestly in 2017. However, we are expecting charge-offs to stay under control.

OPERATOR: Steve Chubak, Nomura.

STEVE CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi, good morning. So, Marianne, I appreciated your remarks on the latest guidance from Tarullo relating to G-SIB capital.

One of the questions we've been getting from a lot of folks is because this SEB is calculated based on stress losses year-to-year and historically CCAR results have been pretty volatile, I'm wondering how you are thinking about the appropriate management cushion or buffer above the minimum? Historically it had been about 50 bps just for AOCI volatility and maybe operational risk losses, but do you now have to also handicap CCAR volatility when thinking about that cushion?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so you are right. And, obviously, even specifically for JPMorgan if you look at our stress results that [handicapped] by the Fed over the course of the last three years has been reasonable volatility. And clearly it's not the case that we will expect it to be completely stable.

I would not expect to see the same levels of volatility going forward as we've seen historically as the test has, as you know, over time occasionally included new not insignificant features. And while that may continue to be the case I would think that there would be a bit more stability. But we haven't actually gone through and finalized our thinking about what the buffers would look like.

STEVE CHUBAK: Understood. One more question, just thinking about capital management priorities, given that the new proposal as you noted allows for curtailment of the buyback or termination of the buyback and then curtailment of the dividend halfway through the test, do these changes as well as the softening of the 30% dividend cap alter your thinking about how you prioritize buybacks versus dividends?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, before I talk about the prioritization of capital distributions I would just start by saying our capital management policies prior to this year's CCAR and this year's resolution had us making those actions regardless of whether they were allowed to be reflected in a test. And, obviously, as part of the resolution planning we have revised our policies to include more granular triggers.

So our policies do with some specificity run pretty granularly through time through a stress speak to the sorts of actions that we would be leaning into and taking, even if they don't get reflected in the test.

With respect to the prioritization, look, the soft cap on dividends has been lifted. Dividends are ultimately still a part of the baseline minimum standard, so there will be possibly some natural constraint there. It hasn't changed, at this point anyway, the Board's determination or management's determination about the order of priority.

We would like to continue to have the capacity to grow our dividend. And I think even though there may be some natural constraints I think it would be above 30.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning, Marianne.

I had a question, you pointed out that about three quarters of your credit card acquisitions organic growth were coming through mobile channels or digital channels I should say. Can that be moved over to other Consumer products or is it just unique to credit cards that you are going to be able to generate that much growth through the digital channel?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we are very focused across the spectrum of our businesses on developing better digital capabilities to allow seamless engagement with customers and acquisition through digital channels. There are complexities associated with documentation and standards for know your customer and anti-money laundering that we're continuing to work through. But ultimately it should be achievable, and we are working on it.

So one of the things that we have previously mentioned is that the majority of our Consumer accounts are opened in branches. One of the reasons among others why branches are [still] important to us as well as advice centers. And we will continue to work on trying to see how far and how fast we can move people to be able to have a better digital experience opening accounts with us.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay, thank you. And then as a follow-up, obviously third-quarter results in Investment Banking were very strong.

Fourth quarter seasonally is weaker than third quarter as you pointed out. Are there any other reasons why you think the fourth-quarter numbers may be weaker than the third quarter, other than the traditional seasonality?

MARIANNE LAKE: Well, I will just start by pointing out that all of the businesses, all of our businesses, not just the ones that I talked about at the high level, not just macro spreads equities, but even if you go a level below that quite granular, all of our businesses did really quite well this quarter. So not to overuse the phrase firing on all cylinders but it really was pretty consistent. And normally you might see pockets of more strength and less strength.

So I think it would be hard to imagine replicating this kind of strength through time consistently. But the fourth quarter is seasonally low and we have no reason to expect that it would not be.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK: I just wanted to follow up on FRTB and Basel IV and how you are thinking about the implications for JPM at this stage?

MARIANNE LAKE: So there isn't a whole lot of really clear new news. So as we think about all of the -- FRTB we've talked about before, modest and manageable, nothing about that has changed for us. But, obviously, there's the advanced and standardized credit operational proposals out there.

The most important thing that we've yet to really, and there are pluses and minuses in it and different for us than others maybe. But the one thing that we haven't really heard about yet, Betsy, is how it will all be calibrated and calibration will be very important.

So we are expecting to hear over the course of the next short while, and maybe that will be delayed some just given some of the discussion. And we will update you when we hear a bit more about how it's all going to come together. But right now it's still a little unclear.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time.

MARIANNE LAKE: Many thanks everybody.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161015ecae000jh
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,573 words
   PD
14 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's second-quarter 2016 earnings call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE: Thank you, and good morning everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1, the Firm reported net income of $6.2 billion, EPS of $1.55, and a return on tangible common equity of 13% on $25.2 billion of revenue, a strong result this quarter, particularly given the backdrop. While there are no significant items shown here on the page, our underlying performance was even stronger if you exclude the impact of other notable items primarily credit, legal and tax, all of which you'll hear about as I go through the presentation. That strength was driven by increased client trading activity across markets and an improvement in IBCs compared to the first quarter, as well as strong core loan growth of 16% reflecting good demand across both consumer and wholesale and record consumer deposit growth, up $54 billion.

Before I go through the results, let me spend a moment on two topics that are top of mind. First, an update on wholesale credit. You will see that the total wholesale credit costs this quarter were approximately $200 million. Within this, charge-offs of $150 million were principally driven by oil and gas and metals and mining. And those charge-offs were very substantially offset by reserve releases, so they were previously reserved, which means that underlying the net $50 million reserve build we saw incremental reserve actions this quarter of about $200 million, principally one energy name downgraded in the CIB.

Although the oil and gas sector remains stressed and reserves will continue to be idiosyncratic, overall trends have been somewhat positive with oil prices continuing to stabilize and firming sentiment in the sector improving access to capital markets. In addition outside of energy, we still have not seen contagion or deterioration in our wholesale or consumer portfolios.

Second, on Brexit, uncertainty running up to the referendum led to a risk-[off] environment. And following the decision the markets were quite volatile, as expected, and volumes were materially higher in the immediate aftermath. The market functioned quite well, absorbing the volatility. And despite the significant increases in volumes, our systems were stable and we continue to support client activity with decent trading performance.

With respect to next steps, as you know the ultimate relationship between the UK and the European Union broadly and access to the single market and passporting specifically will likely unfold slowly and over an extended period, depending on when Article 50 is invoked. We continue to work on plans for the full range of outcomes, but we will be appropriately patient. The most important point is that we remain committed to fully supporting our European and UK clients across businesses, and we will be fully able to do this. And while executing against certain of these options would be complex, ultimately we will protect the franchise and minimize any friction costs so that they will be manageable for the Company.

Moving on to page 2. Revenue of $25.2 billion was up $700 million year on year on higher net interest income. For the full year, expect NII to be up more than the $2 billion we guided at Investor Day, despite headwinds from a flatter yield curve, given that our sensitivity is significantly skewed to the front end of the curve, and as industry deposit read prices to date have remained low, coupled with continued strong loan and deposit growth. Non-interest revenue was flat year on year, with the increase in markets revenue being offset by declines in IBCs as well as Asset Management.

Adjusted expense of $14.1 billion was down $140 million, reflecting continued progress against our commitments. We still expect full-year expense of $56 billion, plus or minus, as the second half of the year includes our expectation of an increase in the [FDI] surcharge in the third and fourth quarters.

Moving onto capital on page 3. The Firm's advanced fully phased in CET1 ratio was 11.9%, with standardized at 12.1%, both up about 15 basis points from the prior quarter. The improvement in both ratios was driven by net capital generation, with RWA remaining relatively flat. Firm SLR remained flat to the prior quarter at 6.6%, as capital generation was offset by balance sheet growth.

This quarter we returned $4.4 billion of net capital to shareholders, including $2.6 billion of net repurchases and common dividends of $0.48 a share. Finally, we're pleased we did not receive an objection to our capital plan. And the Board authorized gross repurchases of up to $10.6 billion.

Moving onto page 4 and Consumer & Community Banking. Consumer & Community Banking generated $2.7 billion of net income with an ROE of 20%, reflecting continued strength in business drivers. We had record deposit growth again this quarter, up 10% year on year. Average loans were up 11%, with core loans up 23% driven by mortgage and auto, but with continued strength across all products. And we had record business banking loan originations of $2.2 billion, up 14% year on year, and with a strong pipeline, up 17%.

We added nearly 2 million households year on year, with an increase of 700,000 since last quarter, reflecting strong acquisition trends including the launch of Freedom Unlimited. And finally, our active mobile customer base remains the largest among US banks, up 18%.

Revenue of $11.5 billion included some non-core items which contributed a little under $200 million. Principally a one-time gain on Visa Europe and negative mark-to-market on Square. Adjusted for this, revenue was up 2%.

Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 3%, reflecting strong deposit and account growth. Mortgage revenue was up 5%, with rates remaining low supporting production margins and on growth in NII as we added $14 billion of high quality loans to our portfolio this quarter, partially offset by lower servicing revenue.

Card, commerce solutions and auto revenue was up, but flat if you exclude the non-core items I mentioned, with gross in card and auto offsetting the impact of card renegotiations. Expense was down 3%, driven by lower legal expense and continued progress against our efficiency commitments, allowing us to fund the incremental marketing and auto lease growth that we talked about at Investor Day.

Finally, credit trends across the consumer businesses continue to be favorable, with charge-offs in card trending up slightly. Over the last two, three years we have responsibly expanded our credit box in card in the prime and near-prime space. As these vintages season, we would naturally expect a higher loss rate and performances in line with our expectations. These loans are coming on at ROEs higher than the portfolio average. So as the mix of our portfolio increasingly reflects these newer vintages, we do expect loss rates to continue to trend up but to do so slowly, and as such we built $250 million of reserves this quarter.

Moving to auto credit. Competitive pressures have caused some lenders to take more layered risk. We have maintained our underwriting discipline with average FICO scores and LTVs better than the industry, and with a very sharp focus on avoiding risk layering. Our credit performance is in line with expectations, and we built $50 million in reserves this quarter, largely reflecting volume growth. Against these reserve builds we saw releases of $125 million, principally driven by mortgage.

Turning to page 5 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $2.5 billion on revenue of $9.2 billion, and an ROE of 15%. In banking IB revenue was $1.5 billion, down 15% in a market down 18%, largely driven by lower equity underwriting fees. We maintained share and ranked Number One in global IBCs, ranking Number One in North America and EMEA. Advisory fees were flat versus a wallet that declined 15%. This quarter we ranked Number Two globally and grew share by 50 basis points.

In equity underwriting, global issuance improved after a weak first quarter but was down from a strong quarter last year, with fees down 37% in a market down 42%. We continued to rank Number One globally, growing share by 30 basis points, and we ranked Number One in every product category for the first half of this year. [Debt] underwriting fees were down 2% from a strong prior year, largely in line with a market which was down 4%. And we ranked Number Two globally.

Moving onto the outlook for fees. Given the decline in M&A volumes, lower wallet is expected in the second half of 2016. We expect to see positive momentum in ECM, as the new issuance market continues to improve. And we expect DCM to be broadly in line with the first half, reflecting robust high grade bond issuance offset by lower acquisition finance.

Lending revenue of $277 million was down 8%, reflecting mark-to-market losses on hedges of accrual loans. Markets revenue of $5.6 billion was up 23% year on year. As I mentioned at the beginning, the Brexit vote triggered a spike in volatility and volumes across asset classes. We were able to meet our clients' needs, execute their transactions and provide liquidity.

Fixed income revenue of $4 billion was up 35% versus a weak second quarter last year. The positive momentum that we saw in March continued into the second quarter, with strong performance in rates and currencies in emerging markets on higher client flows. And performance also improved in credit and securitized products, as client risk appetite recovered in a more stable environment driving increased primary and secondary market activity.

Equities revenue was $1.6 billion, up 2% compared to a strong second quarter last year. With respect to the third quarter, client activity is returning to more normal levels and trading performance so far has been fine. Credit costs of $235 million were driven by a reserve build for oil and gas. And finally expense of $5.1 billion was down 1% year on year, with a comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter of 30%.

Moving onto page 6 and Commercial Banking. Overall a solid quarter for Commercial Banking with net income of nearly $700 million on revenue of $1.8 billion, and an ROE of 16%. IB revenue rebounded from the first quarter. It was up 23% sequentially and flat year on year. And we continued to see strong momentum in loan growth, with average loan balances up 13% year on year. Commercial real estate loans grew 18%, reflecting continued outperformance in both commercial term lending and real estate banking. And C&I loans were up 9% on increased origination activity in both corporate client banking and middle market.

Revenue was up 4% year on year driven by higher deposit NII and loan growth. And expense of $731 million was up 4%, reflecting continued investments in bankers and technology. Finally, credit performance continues to be in line with our expectations, with net charge-offs of 14 basis points, driven by oil and gas but almost fully reserved. And outside of energy credit performance continues to be strong.

Moving onto page 7 and Asset Management. Asset Management reported net income of $521 million with a 29% pretax margin and an ROE of 22%. Revenue of $2.9 billion was down 7% year on year as we continue to feel the impact of weaker markets, lower performance fees and lower brokerage activity. Expense of $2.1 billion was down 13% year on year, largely driven by lower legal expense, and recall that the prior year included a non-core loss. AUM of $1.7 trillion and client assets of $2.3 trillion were both up 1% sequentially and down 5% and 3% year on year, respectively.

We had positive long-term flows of $3 billion as we continue to see strong net inflows into our fixed income products, with equity market weakness and volatility causing clients to derisk resulting in outflows in equity and multi-asset. Our long-term investment performance remained good, with 81% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years. Lastly, we had record loan balances of $112 billion, up 4% year on year, driven by mortgage, up 20%.

Turning to page 8 and corporate. Corporate reported a net loss of $166 million, which included two notable items. There was a net legal benefit reflecting some favorable developments in the quarter offset by a number of tax items, including additions to tax reserves for developments relating to open audit periods. As a result of the tax items our managed tax rate for the quarter was 39%. Adjusted it would have been closer to 36%.

Now turning to page 9 and moving onto the outlook. To reiterate, our Firm-wide guidance for the full year on each of revenues, expenses and charge-offs at this point is largely unchanged, obviously market dependent.

To wrap up. A strong quarter reflecting our leadership positions and the benefits of our diversified franchise, with the consumer businesses firing on all cylinders and with robust loan growth across all businesses. We had a good result in markets, continuing to demonstrate our ability to support clients no matter the environment. And just before I open up to Q&A, just for those of you on the phone, Jamie is here. He has a very hoarse voice, so we'll try and use it sparingly. If you hear him croaky, that's why. Operator, open up the line, please.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Technical difficulty) comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS: Good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Brian.

BRIAN FORAN: I know it's very early, and it's probably limited in what you can say because you mentioned it depends on the timeline of Brexit and how passporting works, but is there any qualitative thoughts you can give us around the operational and/or legal issues we should be watching as this develops -- legal entity restructuring, net impacts of moving people versus lower-cost geographies and things like that?

MARIANNE LAKE: Brian, I know that everybody is keenly interested to hear what we have to say, but the truth of the matter is it's very, very early days. The new government is just forming as we speak. Negotiations need to be given some time to unfold and take shape. So it's really too early to hypothesize.

We would hope that we can continue to operate the way we are right now. But we will just continue to evaluate the landscape, as I'm sure you will, over the coming weeks, months and quarters, and plan accordingly. The most important thing is that we intend to continue to support our European franchise and clients throughout.

BRIAN FORAN: I appreciate that. Maybe switching gears, you mentioned the Consumer business was firing on all cylinders. Clearly, there's some nervousness in the market that the credit cycle is turning.

I wonder if you could touch on two things, which are -- maybe a little bit more detail on the seasoning impact you saw -- you mentioned in Card. Is it just seasoning or is there any like-for-like deterioration? And then in auto, you mentioned risk layering. What particular factors are you seeing layered in the underwriting box that make you concerned right now?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, on the card space, as you know, we have loans running off. We're replacing them all of the time. Over the course of the last couple years, since the end of 2013, we made some changes to our credit box and our credit risk policies very, very thoughtfully. And we've been monitoring them very closely.

And what we're seeing in terms of the loss rates and the seasoning of them is fully in line with our expectations. And these loans are coming on at higher risk-adjusted margins. So, the ROEs are at or above the portfolio ROEs. So, nothing that would speak to anything other than our full expectations for our credit risk appetite.

And with respect to Auto, not to speak for others, but obviously when you look at lower FICO scores and high LTVs and longer terms on top of each other in an environment where you've already seen used car prices soften some and they're likely to continue to do so, it's something to watch. And so we've been very, very thoughtful about that, not just today but as we've been going through the cycle. And not only on an absolute basis do we compare favorably in terms of LTVs and FICO scores and even terms to the industry, but we've been very, very careful in -- and low percentage of subprime origination -- very, very careful about looking at those layered risks.

So nothing in our -- and remember, for Auto this year, I think the charge-off rate's going to be 40-ish basis points compared to a long-run average of more like 60. We're sort of reverting to a more normal level, if nothing else. And used car prices will ultimately come down, and we're being thoughtful about that.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Hello, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Jim.

JIM MITCHELL: Maybe just talk a little bit about the net interest margin and the outlook there. It was down 5 basis points. It looked like it was mostly in the funding costs. I just wanted to get a sense of what was driving -- I think long-term debt was an up-trading. Liability costs were up. Can you give us a sense of what's going on there and how to think about that going forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: At the risk of not getting like overly complicated, the long-term debt expense -- our NII was flat with loan growth. And NII on loan growth being offset by long-term debt expense, which was largely to do with the hedging of non-dollar debt and just relative quarter-over-quarter small moves in currency levels and currency basis. So, I would honestly characterize it, not to sort of underplay it, as quarter-over-quarter noise.

Looking forward -- so when you look at our NIM, you have NII flat. You have the balance sheet growing, as we expected, both on loans and trading assets. So, NIM just naturally is down a few basis points. But we would be looking for NII to be up slightly in the third and fourth quarter, and for our NIM to be relatively stable.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, that's helpful.

And maybe just one follow-up on the prior question of credit -- how should we think about the provisioning going forward in Consumer? Is that going to be a consistent build or is that a catch-up that we saw this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, I would say there's going to be two things. First of all, obviously when you talk about Consumer, it kind of gets dwarfed by Card. So let's start with Card.

We are growing the portfolio. We added 4% core loans year over year in Card. So naturally, as the portfolio grows over time, you would expect to add to reserves. So there will be some of that, but I would characterize it as modest.

And then, as these vintages continue to season, we've been experiencing very, very low loss rates at circa 2.5%. They will trend up slightly. So there will be a little bit of rates impact, too, but again, as I say, with very accretive ROEs.

I would look forward and expect there to be some reserve adds over the course of the next several quarters on a combination of those factors, but for all the right reasons. And similarly, volume-wise in Auto we should see some adds, but again, in comparison to Card, modest.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi. Good morning. So my first question is -- given how well JPMorgan did on the CCAR relative to last year's results, and it seems like RWA and SLR exposure have stabilized over the past few quarters, how comfortable are you perhaps allocating more balance sheet to the investment bank, given that you seem to be very well positioned to continue to gain market share, especially in markets?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, as you know, Erika, everything that we do, we do with a view to, first of all, the client franchise and making sure that we're supporting our clients. And then secondarily, with a view to all of our binding constraints. We will provide capital and access to the CIB. But also take into consideration our overall objective of making sure that we stay in the 3.5% G-SIB bucket. So we will continue to try and find capacity to be able to recycle it and grow high-ROE/high-ROA business.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. And was there anything to call out on the equities, the $1.6 billion equities number, that could be a little bit more one-time in nature for the quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: Not anything significant, no. I think you've got to compare it to the prior year, which was stronger, particularly this time last year in Asia. And that's less true today -- stronger in Europe, less strong in Asia. It's more of a regional story than any particularly significant items.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, two questions -- one on the outlook page. I see on the printed page it's the same as what you had last quarter for the Company overall, obviously. But I heard the emphasis on NII was on the plus side, right, $2 billion year on year plus. Is that the right nuance that you were trying to communicate?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So let me -- two pieces to the story. Yes, the guidance is $2 billion-plus year on year. You'll recall when we came in to Investor Day, we said we would expect $2 billion, rates flat. It looks like rates will be flat, at least in the front end at this point, at least for the majority of the year, if not the whole year.

You've seen already in the first two quarters that year over year we're up $1.4 billion. We were doing better than that on a combination of lower deposit bases reprices and also on strong loan growth.

But if you annualize that, that would be too high. We are going to have some impact in NII of the lower 10-year. It's not significant. But it will offset that to a degree. We would expect our NII to be between $2 billion and $2.5 billion up year on year -- largely strong loan growth, low reprice.

BETSY GRASECK: And then on the loan growth side, you've been funding this in part from just a mix shift, right, where your loan-to-deposit ratios moved up very nicely. It's still very low at 66%, but up 2 percentage points Q on Q, and up from 61% year on year. I'm just wondering how far do you think you can take that before you might want to look to fund loan growth with deposit growth more ratably?

MARIANNE LAKE: I would say we've been doing a combination. We've been growing our deposits more strongly than the industry. So we continue to be net-net attracting more deposits than the industry, and also, as you say, a mix shift out of securities and into loans.

Our outlook for loan growth through the remainder of the year is to be at the higher end of our range. We said 10% to 15% core loan growth, and at this point, demand still seems robust. So we would expect to be at the higher end of that range. We certainly have been this quarter.

So at this point I would say that it's a combination of factors. And remember that the way we think about our investment securities portfolio also takes into consideration how we think about positioning the Firm's duration of equities. So all of those factors will contribute.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Glenn.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning. One more rate question -- as you mentioned, you're super sensitive on the front end of the curve, and you just alluded to the curve is flatter. I'm curious about that great chart that you roll out on Investor Day that talks about -- we make $3 billion more through 2018 if rates stay flat, and $6 billion more if the curve goes down the implied path. The implied path is now lower. Just curious how much those numbers change if the current curve holds?

MARIANNE LAKE: If I get this wrong, I apologize. But I think it was actually we make $3.5 billion on the rates implied and $6 billion on normalized rates. But in any case, let me just talk about rates flat versus implied right now. And just because things can change so quickly, let's just focus on 2017.

Rates flat from here. So, with the 10-year at about 1.5% and IOER at 50 basis points, because of the loan growth, notwithstanding any sort of long-end pressure, we would still expect year over year our NII next year to be up between $1 billion and $1.5 billion, implied, which is actually not that much different from that. So it does have about 20 basis points better long-end rates by the end of 2017, but otherwise relatively flat through the end of 2017 would be about $0.5 billion more than that.

GLENN SCHORR: That is perfect, thank you.

Other question was -- there's some regulators chirping a little bit about concerns in commercial real estate. Some of the other banks have mentioned that you're growing like a weed, and your credit is great. So can we just talk a little bit about what you think you're doing differently to both get that growth and then what you're doing to avoid mistakes of the past? And that'll be good.

MARIANNE LAKE: Growing like a sunflower, not like a weed.

GLENN SCHORR: Fair.

MARIANNE LAKE: Look, I'll say a couple of things. The first is, a lot of that growth is commercial term lending. And it is the case that we have the technology and a process that has speed and certainty of execution, and competitive funding costs. So it is the case that it's a value proposition that we're able to bring to clients, I think, that differentiates us. We're able to close in times that are a fraction of what the industry is.

Secondarily, we're really concentrated on identified, supply-constrained markets, low-rent stabilized. So these are not the same properties that had problems in the past. We have -- since the previous cycle, we have looked carefully at our underwriting, and there are some things and some regions and some products that we either don't do or do significantly less of. So we're very, very careful. But we're looking at some really good credit quality in our commercial real estate portfolio right now.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi, Matt.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi, Marianne. Thanks for taking my question.

Wanted to ask a couple -- wanted to ask a question on the cost side of things where the overhead ratios, both in the CIB and the Consumer Bank, dropped fairly materially quarter over quarter. I guess I'm just looking for some guidance here in terms of how much of the expense initiatives that you've already been talking about, both in the CIB and the CCB, how much progress did you make in this quarter on that, and was that an outsized contributor to the improvement in the overhead ratios?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say in the CIB, it's also a revenue story. So you need to consider both factors (multiple speakers).

So let me talk about where we are on the expense commitments. And you'll recall that -- whether you remember a $4.8 billion number or a $5.5 billion number in total, we're about 70% of the way through delivering against that across the CIB and the CCB at the end of the second quarter, and we continue to make progress.

In the CCB, obviously, it is generally more progressive. And in the CIB, it's a bit more about technology and operations, and it takes some time to deliver that.

But fundamentally we continue to chug through that. And we will get there over the course of the next several quarters. So I would say in line with our expectations, and is a contributing factor.

MATT BURNELL: Okay. And then just in the CIB specifically, you mentioned the comp ratio there was 30%. That's sort of at the low end of your -- of the range that you typically talk about, which is 30% to 35%.

I'm presuming that's largely driven by the better-than-expected revenues. Was there anything else going on there, or was that just pretty much a result of a benign revenue -- a relatively benign revenue environment?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say the comp-to-revenue ratio is an outcome, just for what it's worth. Obviously we try to give the range to give people an idea. We pay competitively and we pay for risk-adjusted performance.

But there's nothing notable going on. We've been actually at the lower end of our range for a little while now.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi. How is CIB doing in Europe and against European bank competitors in terms of revenue growth, share, the degree of competition? Some competitors are pulling back and you guys have stayed the course. Are you seeing the benefit from that?

MARIANNE LAKE: So it's always a little tricky. The share thing is going to become clearer with a rear-view mirror than it is necessarily at a moment in time. It does feel like we are doing fairly well competitively, not just against European banks, but just generally. And not just in Europe, but generally, because we, as you say, have continued to be there for clients across products, across the globe.

So I would say that we feel like we are doing fairly well. We'll know whether that is share gains when we are able to actually look at that in the rear-view mirror.

But there's still plenty of competition out there. So we're just focused on serving our clients the right way. But it does feel a little bit like we're doing well.

MIKE MAYO: And I know you were asked already about Brexit. Maybe if we could hear from you, Jamie, about the implications of Brexit. Marianne, you said, quote, minimize friction costs. If you can just give us some sense of what that means?

You've given us a lot of guidance about the recent quarter and the year ahead. But you have what could be a monumental event, and you haven't really talked to investors about that since Brexit's occurred. How do you think about the currency risk, the cost, the revenues? And are you delaying any investments, given the increased uncertainty?

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE: I'm going to try to tell you as best I can, if you can hear me. So, number one, we do think it will reduce the GDP, the UK and the EU, a little bit. And obviously that's not going to affect our business plans. That will affect the economies a little bit.

Number two, we know it's going to create uncertainty for an extended time period. So we don't think we can answer or make certain all these things you want to know because there are a lot of parties involved. We are hoping that the political leaders are very sensible. It makes sense for both the EU and for Britain to think through the process to make it sensible, whatever changes they make, to give businesses time. I'm talking about years -- time to adjust to the new reality, which we don't know what it is.

I think the most important thing is that we will continue in every single country to serve our clients day in and day out. If it adds extra cost, so be it. I'm not really worried about it. It would be nice if it doesn't create huge turmoil.

I'm hoping the EU is sensible, but we're going to be prepared. As Marianne mentioned, there's a range of outcomes. Any one (inaudible) we'll try to be prepared for each one of them.

We're not going to, like, pull back on serving people in Italy, Germany, France, UK or Spain because it might lead to higher costs. I would accept the higher cost, as opposed to disrupt our clients.

MARIANNE LAKE: I would also point out, Mike, that competitively we are not in this situation alone. And so we're going to take our time to work out what the right course of action is. And obviously we'll update you as and when that becomes clearer.

We're not going to be at a competitive disadvantage. If anything, as we talked about earlier, we feel like we're in a position of strength.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I just, first off, had a follow-up. So on Brexit, post this development, have you seen any impact on your banking pipelines? Has this had any impact on appetite for M&A, particularly if there is a component that involves either the continent or the UK?

MARIANNE LAKE: The truth of the matter is, it's a bit early to say for that, too. I hate to continue to repeat that.

I will tell you that, generally speaking, uncertainty is not particularly conducive or constructive for M&A. But in this case, I think there are some offsets. So I would start with, in terms of the actual strategic dialogue with CEOs and at the boardrooms, it is as good as it's ever been.

If you think about the other factors that would be supportive of M&A, like cheap financing globally, low organic growth, good multiples, solid economy in the US and globally notwithstanding a bit of the steam taken out in Europe or the UK, all of that should continue to be supportive for strategic M&A. At the end of the day -- and currency could be supportive of cross-border activities. So there are puts and takes.

I'm certain that there will be some people who think carefully through the right timing and what to do. At the end of the day, the strategic proposition should ultimately win out in most cases. And similarly, volatility, generally speaking, is not particularly conducive in terms of ECM, but investor appetite is still there, and there have been deals priced post-Brexit.

It's a little early. There's still activity. Volatility is reasonably subdued at this point. And I think, because there are no event calendars out there right now, there's still quite a lot of opportunity in the space. Obviously, DCM, low rates would be a tailwind, notwithstanding the M&A and ECM landscape.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Great. Thank you for that.

And then one more on credit here -- so it seems as though we had 30-day delinquency rate actually go down quarter over quarter. So it seems like maybe -- in the Card, sorry, business. So it seems like maybe it's a cure rate issue. Is that the right assumption? And then, could you give maybe a little color on how much the non-prime growth has been -- has driven in recent vintages versus prior?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I'm going to start with the second part of the question. So we are still very much concentrated in the prime and near-prime space, but we have a higher percentage of our origination in the near-prime space, reasonably meaningfully higher over the course of the last couple years.

So where we may have previously been, I think 40%, above 760. Now that's less than that, and there's more like 20% or 30% below 700. By the end of the day, still pristine credit, relatively speaking.

With respect to delinquencies, is it a cure rate issue? Not specifically, no.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, Marianne. I'm not sure if this is too early, but when you think about expenses longer term beyond this year, if you think about 2017, if we find ourselves in a similar revenue environment next year, when you wrap in your cost save objectives and where you want to be on investment spend, do you think you'll be shooting for expenses to be kind of in the same range of that $56 billion next year, if things don't change on the revenue front?

MARIANNE LAKE: We're not really doing much in the way of 2017 guidance right now. It will ultimately honestly depend on the opportunities we see in front of us to continue to invest and to add customers.

I think we're at a very good run rate of investments. We've increased reasonably significantly in terms of marketing dollars and also lease growth. That will drive profitability in the medium to longer term.

So it's possible, if we see the opportunity to continue to do that, we would do it. But we have no specific guidance yet.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

MARIANNE LAKE: Revenue environment can change reasonably quickly, particularly, as you know, with rates, and to a lesser degree, markets. We're not going to overreact to a short-term phenomenon.

JOHN MCDONALD: Sure. Just more near term, you talked at a recent conference about the tax rate going forward. Just with the kind of issues you had this quarter with the tax rate, looking at 39%, you said it would 36%. What should we think about going forward? Is it like in that 36%?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, taxes much -- generally speaking, the reserve changes are somewhat episodic. Outside of those, yes, 36% is a good central case for our managed tax rate.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi. Good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Marianne, I had a question on the outlook. You reaffirmed the fee income guidance of $50 billion, plus or minus, for the full year. I'm trying to gauge, just given the tough start to the year in trading in 1Q, the subdued second-half M&A commentary, and second-half trading seasonality that we would typically expect, the $50 billion target does appear somewhat ambitious. I didn't know if you felt like that was a fair assessment, or just given what you're seeing across the businesses, that the $50 billion is still ready achievable?

MARIANNE LAKE: So starting with the qualification that obviously, as you suggested, it's going to be market dependent, but also remembering that we knew when we gave the guidance that we would expect the second half to be seasonally lower. So here's what I would say -- first half, market challenged; second half, markets better. Net-net, first quarter markets challenged; second quarter better. Net-net, first half relatively flat year over year. So, call it a wash, with the acknowledgement that we knew we would expect seasonal declines in the second half of the year.

Mortgage better -- so you may recall that we said we would expect mortgage revenues to be down year on year, actually by a reasonably significant amount. Given obviously where the rate environment is, as well as some positive MSR results in the first half of the year, we would expect mortgage revenues to be more like flat. And against that, to your point, lower IB fees and lower Asset Management revenues, given the environment.

The way I would characterize it is there are puts and takes, but net-net it's still a reasonable central case. So we are not changing it. But it's market dependent.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Thanks, Marianne. One more for me on CCAR -- given that you've had some time to digest the latest set of results, the improvement in PNR was probably the most impressive aspect of the release, at least based on our own findings. From what you can gather, based on your own internal assessment, what were the primary drivers of the increase where maybe we have some limited visibility, such as areas like op risk? And does a favorable CCAR outcome inform your view in terms of which constraint is currently most binding and maybe how you might change your deployment tact across the different businesses?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say if you look at the last three years of PPNR, notwithstanding that there have been obviously differences in the scenarios, 2015 CCAR results, so not this year's but last year's, were low. Not to say that means that these results are more normal. I would say if you look at the three years and look at the PPNR results now, it's more consistent with the sort of portfolio risks, revenue generation we would expect. And you can see that because it's much more consistent with our results.

So I don't have insights that I can share with you specifically to try and reconcile the Fed's results year on year, nor do we really try to do that. You're right -- operational risk is likely a piece of it. And that was disclosed in that information. So I would just say, there can be volatility but I feel like this is not an unreasonable place to think the PPNR would start, and it's consistent as you can see, relatively speaking with what we calculated.

In respect to what that means for what's most binding, what it does mean is if you look at the analysis that we've done a couple of years in a row now, where we've said using the CCAR results from the Fed, what would that imply a CET1 ratio would need to be to pass, it had previously been a little less than 11%. With the improved PPNR and, therefore, the improved result, at this point, it would be a little less than 10%.

So in that context, as we sort of look forward, sometime in the near future, maybe in the third quarter, to getting the sort of 2017 CCAR changes in proposed form hopefully, it will alleviate to a degree a little bit of that pressure. But I still would suggest to you, as we said at Investor Day, that CCAR may, depending on how the G-SIB surcharge is included in the minimum, may become binding, if not likely will become binding. And so we'll continue to take that into consideration as we go forward. And we are already taking it into consideration as we think about optimizing against the multiple binding constraints we have.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: A quick question on the mortgage originations -- the correspondent channel didn't change all that much quarter on quarter, although I would have thought with seasonality and a pick-up in refis, that would have increased in the second quarter. Could you talk about how you're thinking about correspondent mortgage originations? And given that refi volume looks strong at the start of the third quarter, should we expect a pick-up in correspondent in the third quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: We think about using all of our channels based upon obviously the demand, and our capacity and our appetite to want to continue to close strongly for our customers. We've obviously also been focused in the anticipation of it becoming a more purchase-oriented market very much on building out the retail channel and the retail distribution channel, and that's been very successful.

So there's less correspondent contribution this quarter. It is a lever we will likely use going forward.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Okay. And I know you can't really discuss too much on the legal side, but is there a right way to think about legal expenses going forward, like an ordinary cost of doing business for a bank your size? Is it 1% of revenues as kind of an ongoing run rate for expected legal expenses going forward, or is there not the right way to think about it and it's just episodic?

MARIANNE LAKE: At this point, I'd still say -- at this point, we would still say it will be episodic. And while we are hopeful that the overall structural costs will start coming down, or has come down, and that's a good thing, there will still be potentially some puts and takes in the legal space.

There's no real way obviously of forecasting a run rate. I would just do what many of you have done, I think, and go back and look at what the legal expense looked like in the years preceding the crisis, and make your own determination whether it's going to be structurally a little higher. But it probably wouldn't be multiples of that.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi, Ken.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks. Good morning.

Marianne, I was wondering just if you could -- I know it's a little backward-looking now and you've made your points already about what normal trading seasonality could be, but could you help us understand the products that drove the really strong [FIC trading] and kind of what happened in June? Was it volumes? Was it spreads widening? And then I guess I would actually ask what you typically consider what normal JPMorgan seasonality is, as you mentioned?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So it was particularly strong in rates, but nevertheless also very strong year over year in currencies, emerging markets, credit trading, [SPG]. So it was pretty broad-based.

But remember, you also have to think about it relative to the equivalent course of last year, and we didn't have a particularly strong second quarter last year. So on a relative basis, that is an important factor, but it was pretty broad-based -- more volume than anything.

And then seasonality, I'm sorry -- look, it's anyone's guess. I think you can go back and look over time. But last year we saw -- we had a weak second quarter, as I said. So we didn't see as much seasonality. But if you look at the last quarter's run rate, I don't know that would be a bad place to start -- last year's third quarter run rate would not be a bad place to start.

KEN USDIN: Understood, okay.

The second question just is -- on the wholesale reserve, you mentioned -- it's been nice to see the energy prices start to stabilize, and it seems like you're able to stabilize the amount of reserve build outstanding, aside from that one credit. What needs to happen for you to get even more comfortable, where you could see some of that reserve start to come out, underneath the context of that you're also growing the wholesale business extremely fast as well?

MARIANNE LAKE: I'm going to start with a couple of general comments, which is, we talked about the fact that the charge-offs that we've experienced in the quarter were credits that we had previously reserved for. So we're at the point now where at least as a sort of basic matter as we're experiencing charge-offs, we feel like we're in a reasonably good reserve position, notwithstanding that idiosyncratically there may be additional adds.

What we would need to see is continued firming of sentiment in the sector, continued access to capital markets to allow companies to repair their balance sheets, and continued stabilization if not improvement in oil and gas prices. And so everything is constructive on that path, but it needs to continue along the same path.

And yes, we are growing our portfolio. And so even if it were not for energy, we would, all other things equal, be adding to reserves, but there are also time to (inaudible) pay down -- a lot of puts and takes, too.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, Marianne. Thank you.

Marianne, can you give us some color -- obviously your consumer loan growth has picked up quite nicely. You pointed to, it's going to be at the higher end of the range for the year. What are you guys seeing on consumer behavior? Has it improved and they feel stronger about their own job prospects, which is enabling them to borrow more? Are there any metrics that you guys are looking at from that end?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, I mean, just to say -- we obviously have our own spend data to look at, and it continues -- the Card spend is up 8% year on year. Energy continues to be a tailwind for consumers. The labor market continues to be solid and improving. And sentiment is still good. Housing, still improving.

So I mean, really just looking at the same things you're looking at, and we obviously have a slightly different lens to it. But all other things equal, consumers are in very good shape, and demand is there for the product. And we've been investing outside of consumer in new products -- inside Consumer, sorry -- in the Freedom Unlimited space and also in marketing. We're growing, not only because the demand is there but also because we're investing.

GERARD CASSIDY: I see. And coming back to credit, obviously your first-quarter results had the results of the targeted shared national credit exam for oil. Traditionally obviously we have the shared national credit exam every year. Second-quarter results normally reflect that exam.

Do your second-quarter results reflect the shared national credit exam? Or is that going to -- ?

MARIANNE LAKE: Our second-quarter results reflect everything that we have and we know of at the end of the quarter. And we're not going to make any specific comments on regulatory exams.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Great, thanks. Marianne, just a couple of quick follow-ups on the auto lending business -- the originations came down a bit. And you talked about the dynamics around that previously in the quarter and at the Investor Day.

When I poll auto lender or auto dealers, they say that where they had primarily seen you retreat was from very high FICO, sort of super-prime new lending and leasing, but that their experience with Chase remained very consistent in the mid-FICO range. I just wanted to see if that was consistent with your view internally?

MARIANNE LAKE: Not specifically. I'm not sure; I haven't polled the dealers myself. We continue to have very high FICO scores. I'm not aware of that, but I can't comment.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. Just one follow-up on auto credit -- obviously the Manheim issue points to perhaps some rising severity, given default. But at this stage, is there anything that suggests to you that we should see a higher frequency of default?

MARIANNE LAKE: In our portfolio at this point, no.

OPERATOR: Okay. And your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. One of the things about what we saw as mortgage rates -- I mean, the 10-year dropping down to record levels and mortgage rates probably following right behind it -- can you give us a little outlook? Are you seeing an uptick in refi's? We've seen the refi indexes go up very high. Any outlook on where you think the mortgage market's going to be in the next quarter or two?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we are expecting refi to be stronger in the coming quarters; and the mortgage market, as best we can tell, will be at around $1.7 trillion, $1.8 trillion this year.

PAUL MILLER: And the other follow-up question is -- there's some news articles out there about JPMorgan securitizing conforming loans. This hasn't really been done a lot by anybody. I don't know if you can address that, the economics behind that, or what's the thought behind that, instead of getting Fannie and Freddie wraps, you're securitizing them yourself?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we've done one, and we're looking at more securitizations in the mortgage space. And we are keeping a vertical stripe. We're retaining the loans on our balance sheet -- or the securities on our balance sheet, I should say. And in doing that we've been able to get private capital to take the majority of the lower credit risk and get better capital treatment for ourselves, in terms of the RWA that it attracts.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Most of my questions actually have been answered. Just a quick follow-up on the credit card originations in terms of dipping down to the lower prime or below. You said something like 20% to 30% had FICO scores below 700. I didn't know if that was for new originations or for the portfolio overall that you were referring to.

MARIANNE LAKE: New originations.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, that's it from me. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. Wanted to ask you a little bit about the focus everybody has on the flattening of the Treasury curve, but yet earlier you were able to say that going into next year you would see 2016 NII growth of $2 billion to $2.5 billion, only really fall to $1.5 billion to $2 billion, which means that flattening of the yield curve is very manageable. Just talk about asset yields as your earning asset yield actually went up 1 basis point -- what you've been able to see in the market versus what's happening in the Treasury curve.

MARIANNE LAKE: I'll just start by sort of orientating you on why that would be the impact for us. If you look at our balance sheet and you look at what we have in fixed rate loans versus what we have in either IOER or in LIBOR loans, it's about $650 billion. So we're much more sensitive to the front end of the rate curve.

If you look at our earnings at risk disclosures, a 100-basis-point parallel shift would be around $800 million. And so obviously we haven't seen, and won't hopefully see, anything of that order of magnitude. That kind of gives you an ability to size up, notwithstanding compounding, why you've only seen our NII relative to prior expectations come down by that much.

MARTY MOSBY: In this particular quarter, your funding costs went up. Is that a lag effect from what the rate hike in December still just now coming through, or was there something else maybe more unusual about the funding cost that we saw that drove the margin down this particular quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I think earlier on the call somebody else asked the question, and I made the comment that it's really more related to the results from our hedges of non-dollar debt, long-term debt. And so in the first quarter, the dollar weakened. In the second quarter, it strengthened. And with some currency basis in the first quarter that we didn't see in the second quarter, it really is, not to dismiss it, but it really is accounting and nothing really else than that.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK: Hi, again. Just a follow-up on the Card new originations -- I know one of the key things that you've done for many years is to focus on relationship lending, relationship offerings. And so when I hear that 20% of the new originations are below a FICO of 700, is that a shift from the relationship strategy that you have or does it reflect the fact that you do have significant relationships on deposits, et cetera, with folks in that FICO band?

MARIANNE LAKE: No shift from our desire to want to be with engaged customers and our rewards programs. Our products are all geared towards that. So it's really just a credit decision. And, yes, we do have relationships with many, many customers in that still near-prime space.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. As a follow-up, Marianne, your consumer business obviously has been very, very strong. Can you share with us the update on clearXchange? It's expected to be rolled out later this year, and what that might do to even grow the mobile business even more than it's growing now?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So look, obviously P2P real-time payments is very important to our customers, so therefore it's important to us. It's also important for us on the industry that it's done in a safe and secure way.

And so early warning, the fraud protection that they are able to provide, as well as bank-level cyber security and the absence of a need to provide your bank credentials we think is very strongly positive for our customers. And we expect to see volume go across that.

As you know, we have QuickPay already, and we saw reasonably significant volume, $21 billion, on QuickPay last year and growing. So I would expect to see more and more P2P payments. And it's good for our customers, it's good for us.

JAMIE DIMON: If you look at the whole payment space, Chase Paymentech is gaining share. Chase Net is doing very well. Chase Pay, we've signed up lots of different people. One piece of that is the P2P.

Today, right now, if you use Chase QuickPay, it's very easy within Chase to Chase. It's now just as easy to go from Chase to a bunch of other banks, who I won't name now. We've just started rolling out -- it's soon to be rolled out to 60% of American banking accounts.

And then we're going to make it available to all banks. So you will be able to go P2P, real time, through Chase QuickPay, there will be a special app for Chase QuickPay. It'll also be branded under another name, which we haven't rolled out yet, which I think will be rolled out shortly.

I think it's a great success that the banks can get together and do this. This will be great service, which I think shows you the banks making progress on what you would have called prior fintech.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you for the color.

OPERATOR: There are no other questions at this time.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you, everyone. Thank you, operator.

JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you again for joining us today. This does conclude today's call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iibnk : Integrated Banks
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160715ec7e000xe
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,819 words
   PD
13 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's first-quarter 2016 earnings call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1. The Firm reported net income of $5.5 billion, EPS of $1.35, and a return on tangible common equity of 12% on $24 billion of revenue. And despite the general market backdrop and energy, our results this quarter were quite good, and pretty straightforward. Consumers remain on solid footing, leading to robust growth in business drivers and strong financial performance. In Consumer we saw double digit growth in deposits year on year, healthy loan growth across products driving 17% core loan growth for the Firm, and high single digit card sales volumes. The wholesale businesses performed in line, or better than expectations expressed at Investor Day, and delivered decent financial results in challenging markets with significant volatility and global macro uncertainty.

The Firm's results included one significant item, [$713] million of wholesale credit costs, of which $529 million related to oil & gas reserves and $162 million in metals and mining reserves, which were generally in line with [our guidance]. But we also experienced some charge-offs this quarter in these sectors totaling $48 million, (technical difficulties) guidance of up to $4.75 billion of charge-offs this year.

While oil prices have improved somewhat in March, they do remain near historically low levels and the market is not expecting the recovery to be strong. Further natural gas, which is a meaningful portion of our portfolio, does remain depressed. We don't feel that current prices are sufficient to [spare] a meaningful restart of production. And many of the cost reductions and conservation actions that have been taken are not easily and quickly reversed. Therefore, the impact of oil prices is somewhat asymmetric on credit costs.

Reserves are main specific. They're based on downgrades reflecting the actual financial condition and the [crediting] position of borrowers. As such, we likely will see some incremental reserve builds for the rest of the year, but they will be increasingly situation specific and our ability to estimate them will improve over time. However using reasonable stress assumptions, on draws, downgrades and considering spin-over effects to closely related companies, those incremental reserves could reach $500 million, plus or minus, this year but with a very high degree of variability around that number.

We continue to believe overall our client base is relatively well positioned to weather this downturn. And we will be there to support them whenever feasible. We also monitor for contagion. And aside from experiencing a couple of main specific issues in very closely related companies and observing some general stress in oil regions, we are not seeing anything broad based and would not expect losses to be significant.

Moving on to page 2. Pausing on this page for just a moment, a few comments from overall revenue and expense. We told you that the first rate hike, together with our strong loan growth, would drive 2016 NII higher by $2 billion. And the $700 million increase in net interest income year over year that you see here is in line with that. However sequentially NII was only up slightly as expected, given the absence of certain securities gains that we had in the fourth quarter, as well as day count.

Non-interest revenue was down $1.5 billion year on year, primarily driven by the market environment in both the Corporate & Investment Bank as well as Asset Management, with the biggest drivers being lower IBCs and fixed income markets revenue. In both case versus a very strong prior year. Adjusted expense of $13.9 billion was down 2% year on year on lower performance-based compensation while continuing to self-fund incremental investments and growth.

Turning to page 3. The Firm's fully phased-in advanced fee ET1 ratio was 11.7%, with standardized at 11.9%. The improvement to both ratios was driven primarily by net capital generation. Recall that we ended the year with very low levels of inventory, and as expected we did see that reverse with our spot balance sheet up $70 billion quarter on quarter reflecting growth in deposits and an increase in trading assets and secure financing activity. This also drove a slight increase in RWA, net of run-off and model calibration.

Firm SLR improved to 6.6%. And we returned $3 billion of net capital to shareholders this quarter, including $1.3 billion of net repurchases and common dividends of $0.44 a share. Lastly, the Fed did not object to a $1.9 billion increase in our capital plan, giving incremental capacity for repurchases next quarter.

Moving onto page 4 and Consumer and Community Banking. You'll notice that we consolidated Consumer into one page, and for your reference we've included the old pages in the appendix. CCB generated $2.5 billion of net income and an ROE of 19% with strength across all lines of business. And TNS just announced that for the fourth consecutive year we are the Number One consumer retail bank, reflecting our ability to attract, satisfy and retain customers. The fundamental business drivers remain strong, with average loans up 12% year on year and core loans up 25% driven by mortgage and auto but with strength across products. And we saw record deposit growth of $50 billion, up 10%.

We added over one million households since last year. And our active mobile customer base was up 19%. Revenue of $11.1 billion was up 4% year on year, and up 1% sequentially if you exclude from last quarter nearly $200 million from the Square IPO and a branch sale. In Consumer & Business Banking revenue was up 4% year on year reflecting that record deposit growth I mentioned, as well as higher account and transaction volumes, and investment revenue up 4% despite the challenging environment.

Mortgage revenue increased 7% on higher MSR risk management and strong loan growth, partially offset by lower servicing revenue. Card Commerce Solutions and Auto revenue was up [2%] on strong auto loan and lease growth, 8% growth in card sales and 12% in merchant processing volumes, all of which more than offset the impact of card renegotiations. Expense was down 2% year on year with an overhead ratio improving to 55% as we continued to make progress against our commitments, more than offsetting $200 million in incremental marketing and auto lease growth. Finally, credit trends in the Consumer businesses continue to be favorable.

Now turning to page 5 and the Corporate and Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $2 billion on revenue of $8.1 billion and an ROE of 11%. In banking, IB revenue was $1.2 billion, down 24% year on year driven by lower equity and debt underwriting fees, but in line with the market which was down 27%. We continue to rank number one in global IBCs and rank number one in three regions: North America, EMEA and LatAm.

It was another strong quarter for advisory, up 8%, versus a wallet that declined 15%. We gained share, ranking number one, as we benefited from a number of deals that were announced in 2015 and closed this quarter. Equity underwriting fees were down 49%, in line with the market, as volatility kept issuers on the sidelines. We maintained our number one rank globally and increased our lead.

Debt underwriting fees were down 35%. And while we were down more than the market, it can be explained by a tough comparison with several large acquisition finance deals in the first quarter of last year, as well as being conflicted out of several large deals this quarter.

In terms of the outlook we expect a sequential decline in M&A to be more than offset by an increase in debt and equity underwriting, if the recent market improvements continue. Treasury services revenue was down 5% driven by business simplification. Lending revenue was down 31% primarily reflecting mark-to-market changes on both hedges of accrual loans and securities received from restructuring.

Moving onto markets. Markets revenue was $5.2 billion and was down 11% year on year, reflecting decent performance given the environment and especially in light of the strength in the [first] quarter of 2015 where we saw elevated client wallet and trading, particularly in January last year particularly around the Swiss franc event. In fact if you indulge me, adjusting for our outperformance year over year results would have been down by mid single digits.

Fixed income revenue was down 13%. The first couple of months of this quarter, as you know, were challenging across markets, but is some stability returned in March. And overall I would characterize the quarter as seeing reasonably solid client activity, but given the market backdrop it was more difficult to monetize flows. We saw better performance in rates and lower performance across other asset classes.

Equity markets revenue was down 5%. And although flows were steady, idiosyncratic events and sharp moves were tough for our clients, both on the way down and back up. Asia equities continued to outperform, driven by market volatility particularly in Japan.

With respect to the second quarter, the relative stability we saw in March has continued into April so far; however, it's also the case that markets are still quite illiquid in certain parts and will be prone to somewhat [abrupt] corrections. So while investors have started to deploy cash and capital markets are wide open for well understood names, there is still remaining caution for more challenging issuers. Although there's been noise in the data globally, there is an emerging belief that it's fundamentally better but we need to continue to see no downward surprises. And as such, we remain somewhat cautious about the second quarter.

Security services revenue was $881 million, in line with guidance. Credit adjustments and other was a loss of $336 million, mainly driven by CVA on spread widening. Credit costs of $459 million were driven by reserve builds for oil and gas and metals and mining, as discussed earlier. Finally, expense of $4.8 billion was down 15% year on year driven by lower performance-based compensation and lower legal expense, with a comp-to-revenue ratio for the quarter of 32%.

Moving onto page 6 and Commercial Banking. The Commercial Bank generated net income of $500 million on revenue of $1.8 billion and an ROE of 11%. Outside of credit costs for oil and gas the first quarter was very solid performance.

Revenue was up 4% year on year, driven by higher loan balances and deposit net interest income offset by lower IB revenues versus a record last year. Expense of $713 million was up 1% year on year and down 5% quarter on quarter, but in line with recent trends if you exclude the impairment taken on leased corporate aircraft last quarter.

We saw strong growth in our loan book with average loan balances up 13% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter, and with portfolio spreads relatively flat for a couple of quarters now. Our commercial real estate business continued to exceed the industry with growth of 18% year on year reflecting superior execution while maintaining credit discipline.

In C&I loans were up 9% year on year driven by robust originations in corporate client banking. Finally on credit, we added $300 million to reserves, mostly related to oil and gas, but we continued to see very low net charge-offs.

Moving onto page 7 and Asset Management. Asset Management reported net income of $587 million with a 30% pretax margin and 25% ROE. Revenue of $3 billion was down 1% year on year driven by weaker markets and lower brokerage revenues. Excluding the impact of the sale of an asset this quarter which contributed $150 million to the revenue number, adjusted revenue AUM and client assets were down each generally in line with lower markets.

Expense of $2.1 billion was down 5% year on year largely driven by lower performance-based compensation. Despite these lower markets we saw positive long-term flows of $12 billion this quarter with strength in fixed income multi-assets and alternatives, and including the benefit of a large mandate being partially offset by outflows in equity products given volatility.

Our long-term investment performance remains strong, with 80% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years. Loan balances of $110 billion were up 7% year on year, with record mortgage balances up 20% and solid growth in traditional lending.

Before I move on, as you're aware the Department of Labor issued the final fiduciary rule last week. It's a long and complex set of requirements and details will matter. It will take time to fully digest.

On first read there are no significant new provisions from the proposal that would change our position, which is that we've been a fiduciary for over 150 years. And based on our current advisory business we are confident in our ability to adjust and be successful. Perhaps one of the biggest positives is the longer time to implement, which allows us to be even better prepared.

Skipping page 8, as we actually have nothing significant to call out on Corporate and I will move onto the outlook on page 9. We've included our guidance from Investor Day on the page. It's unchanged so I won't go through it, just two new points to highlight. For Asset Management. The first-quarter revenues adjusted for the $150 million were a little over $2.8 billion. And assuming relatively constructive markets we would expect those revenues in the second quarter to be flat to up, but to be less than $3 billion. And obviously expense will also be flat to up in line with those revenues on performance-based compensation.

In the Commercial Bank we expect revenues will be up modestly on continued loan growth, but we also expect expenses to increase to about $725 million as we add bankers and execute on our technology and product investment strategies. The upshot of which is we expect pre-provision net revenue for the Commercial Bank to be relatively in line with the first quarter.

Before moving to Q&A, I want to make a few comments about the news this morning regarding living wills. Obviously we were disappointed with the conclusion reached by the joint agencies on our resolution plan. We have taken this planning process very seriously, and we believe we've made substantial progress. Having said that, the most important thing is we work with our regulators to understand their feedback fully and in more detail. And we are fully committed to meeting their expectations.

So wrapping up, despite challenging market conditions we delivered really quite good performance in the quarter with diversification allowing us to perform well in difficult environments and be there for our clients. Operator, you can open up to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Burnell.

MATTHEW BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Marianne, maybe a couple of questions on energy. You noted that the provision was slightly above your guidance this quarter relative to what you mentioned you thought it might be in late February.

Guess I'm curious in terms of what your expectations are in terms of your guidance relative to potential draw-downs, particularly in the $10 billion of high yield loans that you have undrawn? And what your ability is to potentially mitigate potential draw-downs based on the financial condition of your borrowers?

MARIANNE LAKE: So the first thing I'd say is with respect to oil and gas, obviously I think $529 million is pretty close to $500 million, plus or minus. So that was pretty much in line. But you are saying it'll be a little bit higher with metals and mining. We were expecting close to $100 million and there were a couple of extra downgrades that came through in the quarter, and that kind of timing is going to happen. It doesn't change the overall sort of perspective for us.

With respect to draws, when I gave some sort of indicative guidance about what you might expect to see potentially in the rest of the year in terms of reserve build, we do try to take into consideration the likelihood that we will see incremental draws. And clearly we will work with borrowers to try and help them such that that may not be necessary, and in other cases we can reduce our exposure in redetermination cases. But we will expect to see draws and that's contemplated in our guidance.

And I want to make sure that everyone understood that we tried to be very complete. So this is not just oil and gas and metals and mining, as the [Mace] Code would suggest. We've looked at very closely related companies in shipping and marine transportation and the like. So we're trying to be very complete.

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: We've yet to take a loss.

MARIANNE LAKE: We have taken a couple. Not very much.

MATTHEW BURNELL: Fair enough, that makes sense. But that dovetails nicely actually into my follow-up. In terms of the wholesale non-accrual balances, those are up about $1.2 billion quarter over quarter.

Can you give us a sense as to how much of that was energy and metals and mining? And were there other areas of the portfolio that added to that? And what's your outlook for wholesale non-accruals over the course of the next couple of quarters?

MARIANNE LAKE: So of the $1.2 billion, $1 billion was a combination of oil and gas and metal and mining, so the vast majority and outside of that, consistent with my comments on contagion, there's not any sort of thematic other noteworthy thing to mention to you. And obviously as we continue to watch the cycle play out over the next several quarters and reevaluate some clients that may be experiencing stress, it's likely that we will see some more MPLs. But I gave you context around what we're expecting to see in terms of reserve. So they will go up, but not to numbers I would consider to be large in the context of our wholesale portfolio.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi. Just one follow-up. What was the drawn-on energy facilities this quarter? It doesn't seem to be too big, but -- and then related to that, what's the reserve as a percentage of drawn credit right now?

MARIANNE LAKE: The draws are about $1.3 billion in the quarter. So some but not excessive. And after the reserves that we put up in the first quarter the coverage ratio is 6.3%.

JAMIE DIMON: What is it on balance and stuff?

MARIANNE LAKE: That is the on balance sheet.

GLENN SCHORR: And then maybe a little bit of different question.

MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry Glenn, just on that 6.3%, that's the Firm. If you look in the Commercial Bank, obviously it's higher. So you've got a sort of a different portfolio mix in the Commercial Bank versus the CIB. So if it's some parts of our portfolio it's closer to 9% or 10% and in other parts it's lower. Sorry. Your second question?

GLENN SCHORR: I appreciate that, and I thank you.

The other question is on growth. We've been waiting for a long time, but you've been seeing great growth across a lot of different products. CRE up 18% and the commercial bank C&I up 9%.

At this stage of the cycle, I appreciate the consumer's showing a lot of strength. Is there any growth where we scratch our heads and said, wow is that growing too much? It sounds funny for me to be asking for less growth, but just curious to get your thoughts.

MARIANNE LAKE: It's a perfectly reasonable question. And obviously when we look at growth in CRE, or the commercial real estate business, of 18% it's an obvious question, are you doing something different? And the answer is, no we're not. We haven't changed our geographies, we haven't changed our risk appetite. It just simply is the case that we have a good process and we are continuing to focus on our sort of core capabilities and our core risk segments. But we've been able to take advantage of the opportunity because our process is better, and to a lesser degree, but nonetheless to a degree, given that the CMBS market has been somewhat disrupted.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi.

BETSY GRASECK: I have a question on the living wills. The indication today was that there were four areas that you needed to enhance. Liquidity was one of those and I was a little surprised to see that, given the strength of your liquidity book. I guess what I'm wondering is, does the living will submission and the changes that you have to make have an impact on your current business at all? In other words, do you need to build liquidity to meet the requirements that the regulators have, or this is in a obviously worse case scenario you'd build at that time?

MARIANNE LAKE: So Betsy obviously, with having only received the specific feedback less than 24 hours ago we still have to get into the analysis phase about what it all means.

I would start with your opening comment that considering our liquidity you were surprised. This doesn't appear to be a statement about the adequacy obviously of JPMorgan's liquidity, which is very significant, as you know. But it really about how we analyze and think about that at the material legal entity level and the inter-affiliate nature of how we formed our entity. So I can't tell you with any clarity exactly what will be required as we get into the analysis. It wouldn't be my core expectation that it would require us to do a meaningful overall new liquidity actions, but we have to do the work.

BETSY GRASECK: As we think about the implications of this morning's announcement, it's around your planning and procedures as opposed to a likely impact on the business operations today and the results that you can generate, is that a reasonable conclusion?

MARIANNE LAKE: Again, just based on our preliminary read, I think there's going to be significant work to meet the expectation of the regulators. And our plan already had us doing a lot of work around actual real simplification of legal entities and other things. So I don't know that there are going to be significant changes. It's not my primary expectation that there would be, but we do need to have a moment to go through the details.

JAMIE DIMON: The liquidity of the Company is extraordinary. We have $400 billion in central banks around the world, $300 billion of AA-plus short duration securities, just about $300 billion of very short-term secure -- really top quality repo or type of stuff like that. The trading book is $300 billion, which is mostly very liquid kind of stuff. So the liquidity of the Company is extraordinary.

MARIANNE LAKE: I would say, just again, we need to do the work and we need to figure out obviously what the response to that will be. But it is encouraging that sometimes we're found to be credible for large systemic financial institutions. And if they have been able to adequately show their preparedness, we're confident we should be able to do the same. We just need to make sure that we understand the details of what it is that we don't have in our plan today that we need to change, and we're committed to doing it.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning. Marianne, can you expand upon your comments in your opening dialogue about the energy exposure? You're not too worried about the contagion risk, but you did say there are a couple of specific issues relating to some very closely related companies. Can you give us more color on what you're referring to?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, absolutely. So I just wanted -- if you used the industry codes the way that you could if you want to expand your thinking to just what is technically considered to be an oil and gas company, you'd miss out on, for example, a marine shipping company that all they do is ship oil and therefore their financial and their performance is going to be directly related to the health of the energy sector.

Those companies we have identified them specifically, they are managed within our energy risk team. They are not managed by a different team. So I was simply saying that some of the companies that we are watching, and in one or two small cases that have experienced some stress, are not traditional energy companies. But their condition is directly related to oil and gas.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. And then on the loan growth, which is obviously very strong, what are your people on the front lines saying about commercial real estate? Are there any changes in terms of underwriting metrics that your front line people are seeing since we are starting to see in certain markets, like multifamily, which you guys have already identified as some weak spots? Are there any other underwriting issues that are cropping up now that you didn't see three months ago or six months ago?

MARIANNE LAKE: So obviously not for us. I would say that it's competitive, as the C&I space is very competitive. Commercial real estate is also competitive, but it's not irrational. And we aren't seeing, or at least we are not seeing very rational proposals on structure and risk.

Meanwhile we haven't changed our risk appetite, we haven't changed our underwriting standards. We continue to have lower LTVs and higher debt coverage ratios, pretty consistent geography. So speaking for JPMorgan specifically, there's been no change in our underwriting standards. In fact if anything since the last crisis, obviously the last recession, we tightened our underwriting standards and we've moved away from some of the riskier types of that business, so home builders and a lot of construction loan business.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mayo with CLSA.

MICHAEL MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi. That was a very serious CEO letter you had in the Annual Report. But two questions related to that.

One would be you, Jamie, indicate the potential for higher interest rates, and just looking for some more color into why you think that's the case and if you're preparing the bank for a scenario of higher rates or if you're just trying to set a tone at the top, or perhaps be a contrarian. I know you gave some technical factors in the CEO letter.

And then the second thing is just the contrast between what you have in the CEO letter, liquidity trading governance oversight with the living will letter that came out today. And just a follow-up on the earlier question, do you simply have to write a better resolution plan or might you have to change a little bit the way you do business? And does this make you have a more conservative CCAR ask?

MARIANNE LAKE: Hey, Mike. I'll start and then Jamie can add to it.

So on the interest rate point, the colors are pretty consistent with what we said over time, which is we have the belief that the US economy is continuing to move in the right direction, that the consumer is on solid footing, and that despite the noise in the data and some of the volatility in the market, global growth will continue albeit at a moderate pace. And obviously stability in the markets in March has continued to help us with that thesis. So that coupled with the fact that the Fed themselves, while they are dovish in their narratives in the minutes and also they are [dots] are continuing to talk about gradual increases, and the debate around negative rates has kind of quieted.

So we don't particularly run the Company with a day-to-day view on what's going to happen with interest rates, we are positioned for rising rates, as you know, and have been. But we also understand what the performance of the Company looks like if there are no more rate rises, or when we stress our portfolios in lots of different ways.

So we are positioned for rising rates, it is our central case that will happen. The market is pricing less than one hike in this year. The Fed dot says two. Our research says two. We're just going to have to wait and see.

I'll also start and then Jamie can jump in on the living will thing. We have to take it at face value in discussions with our regulators that we need to meet their requirements, whatever they may be, all of the rules whether it's capital, whether it's liquidity, whether it's stress testing, whether it's resolution plans. And if we do that and satisfy them, then we can continue to operate the Company the way that we think it is best for our clients and communities around the world.

So at this point we need to remediate and address the issues and the feedback they've given us and resubmit a plan for assessment that we hope will be credible. And that's certainly what we will commit to do. And that's what we are focused on.

MICHAEL MAYO: Was there anything else from Jamie on that, because if you compare and contrast the CEO letter to what the regulators just said about you guys, it's not completely consistent?

JAMIE DIMON: Well I don't think it's inconsistent. We're trying to meet all the regulations, all the rules and all the requirements. We've been doing that now for five or six years. What is it, six years since Dodd-Frank was passed. They had their job to do and we have to conform to it.

MARIANNE LAKE: I know it's easy to sort of overlook the quite a few statements where there's an acknowledgment that progress has been made. And none of the feedback in the letter negates the significant progress across the industry on capital liquidity stress testing. So it is consistent, but we have more work to do and we'll do it.

JAMIE DIMON: On the interest rate stuff, I wasn't predicting it. I'm simply saying I think there's a chance it will be different than what people expect, and it will be a little -- I said it'll gradual until it's sudden.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Hi, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

BRIAN FORAN: I wonder on trading, you appreciate that you reported first so you haven't seen the market yet. But two questions around the whole thesis, the last man standing versus restructures.

One, do you have any sense of whether your performance overall and really thick represented market share gains or not this quarter? And then two, with some of the guidance coming out of the European banks in particular being very poor and some of the restructurings maybe accelerating steam, is there any thought around comp and maybe using that as a lever to improve returns over the remainder of the year and into next?

MARIANNE LAKE: So obviously we're the first to read out, and it's very difficult when you think about performance because you also have to think about the relative performance in the comparable periods and prior years and the like. So I would say that down mid-single digits adjusted for what we would consider to have been outperformance last year is really quite good performance. So I don't know that we gained share, but I certainly think we protected share, and it may differ across the different product sets. But I think in general we feel pretty good about our performance and we don't know anything to the contrary.

JAMIE DIMON: I'd just add that $5 billion-plus of sales and trading in a quarter like this look as good, earning decent returns. We have good margins. We're not quite sure about share, but it was -- I would look as quite a good performance. And trading losses, while we, was it six days you said to me?

MARIANNE LAKE: Six days, yes.

JAMIE DIMON: Six days, there was -- like $40,000. So that the actual results were just -- that's really good. I look at that as a very healthy business.

MARIANNE LAKE: And then with respect to the restructuring and whether that presents opportunities for us broadly [define], including in compensation for -- we pay for performance and we pay risk (inaudible) returns, and we're not looking to try and make changes to what we've been very consistent about over time. And you can see our comp-to-revenue ratio of 32% this quarter is in line with the ratio in the first quarter of last year, and in fact the first quarter of the year before. So lower -- obviously on lower revenues, but a fair pay for the performance. And obviously we intend to insure that we are competitive, but we're not going to take any direct actions as a result of that in terms of (multiple speakers) --

JAMIE DIMON: We've also got some big deals done near the end of the quarter in Western Digital and [Newmar] Cable, which is part of sales and trading. We also got -- we did this, I thought, a very creative Chase, [what I would call], a Chase Trust in order to secure the first real securitization in a long time in the mortgage business, we do revenue risk-sharing, and I think it's quite good.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi. Just a question on expenses. First, was there any legal expense in the quarter? And then just a broader question, Marianne.

Are the incremental expense saves you're getting from your programs flowing through the bottom line, or is it some of it getting reinvesting, like in CCB I noticed the headcount is up a little bit on page 11, just the last couple quarters? Is that reflect like reinvestment of the cost saves? And then just on the legal side, if you had anything this quarter? Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: On legal, the number is [circ] $0. Pretax is actually slightly positive. After-tax we did some true-ups, assessments on penalty. So actually net/net about $0 this quarter, which I'll take it for the quarter but it doesn't necessarily predict the future.

In terms of expenses, so we talked at Investor Day, Gordon in particular but also Daniel, that we are continuing to invest in our businesses. And across the board in fact adding bankers and technology and digital, digitizing, et cetera. So we continue to do that across the businesses and I mentioned in the CCB page that the net expenses, albeit down, includes self-funding $200 million of incremental investments year over year and growth.

But you did notice the headcount in the Consumer businesses is up slightly. And that's a combination of the investments we're making in technology and digital, that's about 500 of the heads and other 1500 is increasing part-time staffing in the branches so that we have flexibility to make sure that we have loading at the right times of day for making sure the customer experience is good. So I would characterize it all as very consistent and yes, we continue to invest. And that is in part what you're seeing in the headcount in CCB.

JAMIE DIMON: And you saw new credit card Freedom Unlimited 1.5% back. We're doing a lot of stuff in Chase Pay. So the Starbucks thing, we apply the top digital side, and we continue to win awards in the Consumer Bank. So we'll always be investing there.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. You're fielding a lot of questions on energy credit quality. But taking a step back, given that the delinquency statistics outside of energy still remain fairly stable, could you give us an outlook for how you think credit quality trends will play out for the rest of the year if the base case is slow growth in the US?

MARIANNE LAKE: So it is our expectation across both the consumer and the wholesale businesses outside of energy that the credit trends will remain favorable, or credit will be relatively benign. We're not expecting to see material increases, except for the fact that we are growing our loan portfolio.

So when we did Investor Day we talked about charge-offs this year will go up year on year, and they will go up to potentially as high as $4.75 billion. But half of that would be on the back of the fact that we are growing our portfolios. So you'd just have natural sort of BAU levels of charge-off from that and then the other half would be on energy. So we're not expecting or seeing at this point anything, other than good credit quality for the rest of 2016, outside of the obvious.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. And just one more follow-up question on the living will. Could you help us understand what you think the regulators meant in terms of if the remediation is not met by October 1 of this year that there could be more stringent prudential requirements? Could that possibly mean higher capital or liquidity standards if the expectations aren't met by October? I guess we always thought of the living will as more of a cost issue rather than a further tax on regulatory ratios.

MARIANNE LAKE: So I will start by saying that as you know our regulators have extraordinary powers over a wide range of requirements for us regardless, and many ways of influencing those and you're familiar with most of them. It is absolutely the case that as you look at the resolution process that there are provisions that talk about if remediation is not satisfactory with, or cured within a two-year period, there are - there's a possibility that the regulators could jointly decide, may jointly decide, to take other actions that could include capital or liquidity or leverage or operating model discussions. So obviously they do have those powers.

October is not that far away. We're going to do our very, very best to make sure that we put our best foot forward and remediate the issues and then we have another submission in July 2017. So not to suggest that we won't fully remediate them to the very best of our ability, but the living will process I expect to continue to be somewhat iterative over the next several cycles, and we continue to push ourselves to raise the bar. And I'm certain that the bar will continue to be raised on us, as it should.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: If I look at the first-quarter net interest income, which was at least better than what I had, good NIM, and think about your full-year outlook. If I take it literally it implies flattish net interest income dollars from here. And I'm just wondering if that's too literal of an interpretation, or if maybe there are some offsets to the loan growth from, say, lower long-term rates as we think about the rest of the year?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So we talked about the fact that if there's no change in rates and if we continue to grow our loans, we would expect our NII to go up by $2 billion. So you're right, if you look at the run rate right now that would be relatively flat from here.

I think in our favor, because of the easing that's still going on around the rest of the world and the sort of the dovish Fed comments, there's been a lower re-price just in the industry generally. So that's in our favor and we're much more sensitive to the front end of rates. So we're not suggesting that the long end of the curve has no impact, it's relatively modest. So $2 billion, maybe a little more. The biggest driver of significantly higher NII above that guidance would be if we had another hike earlier than December.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then just separately, any comments on the Treasuries ruling on inversion as you think about M&A, kind of broadly speaking for the industry and for you guys specifically? And if you can frame how much that driven your M&A revenues in the past, or the industry? Any color around that would be helpful.

MARIANNE LAKE: So not going to talk specifically about the Treasuries' actions, other than saying that we would support Fed tax reform in general. With respect to the impact on our business, either historically or going forward, it wouldn't be zero and it wouldn't be significant.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Maybe we could talk a little bit about CCAR. I've had some investors express concern about the Fed's inclusion of negative rates. Have you found that to be difficult in terms of modeling? And overall, I guess given the improvement -- on the flip side, given the improvement in your capital ratios, do you think that there's -- you should be able to see some improvement or increase in CCAR into -- now that you've looked at it for a few months?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So obviously I'm not going to be able to talk specifically about our plans that we've submitted because we just submitted them and we haven't had any feedback and they are confidential, but I will tell you that obviously negative rates, it was the first time this has been in the scenario. It's not the first time we have thought about it, and it is not the first time that we've experienced it, and at least in other parts of the world in Europe, Japan and elsewhere. So we have had strategic discussions, we understand broadly what we think we would do and what would happen to our balance sheet. We can model it and we can effect it. So in that sense, now I mean obviously, we'll continue to work that process through if it continues to be a feature of CCAR.

You're absolutely right that year over year our launch point is a higher level of capital and our balance sheet and our credit quality continues to improve, and our risk levels have not materially changed. So as a general matter we would hope, and we've also added [press]. So as a general matter we would hope to have incremental capacity but nothing inconsistent with what we have said externally, which is that the Board would like over time to continue to have the capacity to potentially increase dividends and that we would likely the capacity to, within a reasonable range, repurchase our stock. And that's the framework that we have used to submit our plan.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Steve Chubak with Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Hi, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

STEVEN CHUBAK: So Marianne, within the Asset Management segment you noted that the revenues were down in line with the market. But if we isolate the fee income components to exclude some of the gains you highlighted as well as other income, the revenues declined by double digit both quarter on quarter and year on year, which is a bit more pronounced than what we had expected. And I was hoping you could speak to maybe some of the factors outside of the market declines that may be impacting revenues in that business, specifically what you're seeing in terms of retail engagement and maybe whether you've seen improvement in sentiment now that the markets have recovered pretty nicely off the February trough?

MARIANNE LAKE: So if I do the -- I don't want to use the word call, if I adjust for the full impact of the asset sale that was in the quarter not just the $150 million in this quarter but also the revenues that were present with respect to that in the first quarter of last year, my adjusted revenues are down about 4% to a market that on average, while I appreciate that it recovered in March, but the market on average for the quarter was down around 5%. So we would characterize that as generally in line. And similarly if you do adjustments on the balance sheet side, the Assets Under Management and client assets. So certainly you can speak to Jason afterwards and reconcile our numbers so that we're not confusing each other.

I'm sorry what was the second part of your question?

STEVEN CHUBAK: The retail engagement.

MARIANNE LAKE: Retail engagement. So retail engagement picked up in March, as you would expect. We saw positive flows. We obviously saw negative flows for the quarter in equities, that's not surprising. And then we saw positive flows, particularly in multi-asset. So we did see some reasonably healthier retail flows in the quarter, but primarily in March, and some were offset by outflows in equities.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Excellent. Thank you.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, Marianne. Quick question on NIM here. Can you talk about how sustainable you think the NIM expansion might be and whether or not there's anything one-time in the numbers we should adjust for?

MARIANNE LAKE: As luck would have it, in this quarter there is nothing one-time that you need to adjust for. Last quarter there obviously was. So we would expect that our NIM should be stable to improving over the course of 2016. The extent to which it would improve, obviously depending upon what happens in term of gradual rising rates.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, great. Thank you. And then on the energy exposures in the loan book, can you comment on maybe whether or not some of the equity capital raising that we've seen in the energy space has perhaps taken some of the tail risk away from that book? And then is it possible also to update us on the criticized exposures in oil and gas? I believe in the 10K it was somewhere around $4.5 billion at year end?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So with respect to equity capital raises, I mean obviously to a degree that would be true, although those companies that were able to access the equity markets are not those that are experiencing the most stress. So obviously all other things equal it's a positive, but I'm not necessarily thinking it's going to take significant steam or the pressure off. With respect to second part of your question I'm so sorry?

JAMIE DIMON: The C&C.

MARIANNE LAKE: Jason will get back to you. I'm sorry, I don't have the answer.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: No problem. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks. Marianne, can you comment on what competitive conditions are like in the credit card market currently and if there's been any change around the intensity of competition for co-brands and awards? And I think Jamie you alluded to the launch of a new product. I'd love to get an update on your initial thoughts about how it's going.

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So no, nothing has changed in the card competitive landscape, including in co-brands. It's still very competitive, albeit that we saw a little bit of deceleration in sales growth year over year last year and we've seen that trend back positively for us this year. So we feel good about that and we've been increasing our marketing spend and as Jamie did say, we launched Freedom Unlimited quite recently and it has been quite recent, but early feedback is very positive. With respect to Freedom with a 50% increases in activity and interest, there's going to be a degree of cannibalization of other products, we would expect that. But so far, so good. And we just like to give our customers choices. And its been favorably received.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great, thank you. And on the -- auto has been a big area of focus, and you touched on it certainly during your Investor Day. But on the mid-FICO range is there anything going on, on a macro level, that would suggest some significant likelihood of credit quality deterioration?

MARIANNE LAKE: So the Manheim is down slightly. We continue to believe and expect that it will continue to trend downwards and so [also seeing] it will continue to trend upwards, just given where it is today and also the amount of leased inventory that will ultimately go into the used car space over the course of the next several years. However the fundamentals are still good, the market is still solid.

We have pulled back on subprime a while ago. It's a small part of our originations. So other than seeing some delinquencies tick up, as expected, in some of the energy-related states but not very significantly, there's nothing at the moment that's on the burner.

JAMIE DIMON: For us. I do think you'll see issues in the market.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. In the mortgage banking segment you wrote down the MSR by almost as like $0.9 billion. Was there any hedging gains? I couldn't find them in the documents, any hedging gains to offset that?

MARIANNE LAKE: So the MSR P&L for the quarter was a positive $124 million, and they are a combination of BAU and material factors that added up to that, and probably about half of it was a combination of hedge performance and the market.

PAUL MILLER: And the other. And then on the mortgage banking side, have you been seeing -- you saw the MBA today release that the purchase applications are the high since 2010 or something in that order. Are you seeing the Spring buying season, especially on the purchase side, starting to pick up?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, yes. So purchase applications are up 30%, I think, year on year. We continue to be positive momentum in that space, and we are seeing Spring activity continue to be robust, as expected.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hi, thanks. Good morning. Just two quick follow-ups on the fee side. Understanding that market dependence is built into the outlook to get the $50 billion of fees for the year. I'm just wondering, have we now run-rated the combination of the business repositioning, the card revenue run rate, and so -- and the toughness of this first quarter? I guess the question is really, what are the things that you expect to get better from the first quarter on the fee side upside of normal seasonality?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So in terms of run rated, the two biggest drivers of the walk that we gave at Investor Day were the card co-brand renegotiations and the mortgage banking non-interest revenue. I would just point out that while we are seeing some of the incremental impact of card renegotiation, that will play out over the course of the year. But on the positive side -- and on the positive side mortgage banking, just given where rates were over the quarter, has been positive relative to central expectations when we did Investor Day. So those two things are worth noting.

But we are seeing really quite good drivers in non-interest revenue drivers across the consumer space generally, in debit investments, in fees and accounts, in the sort of 4%, 5% range, and sometimes in the range higher than that. So we are continuing to see exactly what we expected, which is the majority of our businesses will continue to deliver mid- to high single digit growth, and they seem set to do that. The card impact will be what it will be, and mortgage NII will end up down year over year, whether it's $700 million or $600 million we'll see. And so the biggest driver of what the end result will be is going to be markets.

KEN USDIN: Yes, okay. And I know it's a smaller line item, but just noticing in the guide for security services to be flat from here, there's always some seasonality in there too. But I'm just wondering if you could just give a comment about what you're seeing in that business and are there any incremental challenges that leave you with a flat outlook?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Look, the business is not immune to markets either. So obviously as you look at the performance for the quarter our fees have been impacted by low asset levels. And we also have got the tail impact of some business simplification, just getting the tail of that out of the performance. We are also seeing the benefit of higher rates.

So I'd characterize the majority of those negatives on lower fees and simplification as being behind us. So the trajectory, if rates continue to rise, would be upwards. But that's why we said market dependence. We were not expecting our performance to go down from here. Flat to up, but depending on rates.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Christopher Wheeler with Atlantic Equities.

CHRISTOPHER WHEELER, ANALYST, ATLANTIC EQUITIES: Yes, good morning. The question is already on the compensation ratio. You've obviously done a fantastic job on the cost base. But one of the issues that strikes me is clearly with the reduced revenues, particularly in the capital markets business. Your comp down about $400 million in the --compared to the first quarter of last year.

Obviously what we've experienced generally is you holding the ratio steady for the second or third quarter and then tooling up with a lower ratio in the fourth quarter. So I'm looking at the estimates we have for revenues on a well-known provider of data. We've got pretty flat revenues being forecast by people like me, whether we're right or wrong. Should we be thinking about how you're going to build a bonus pool on the -- against this background and whether we should be looking at thinking -- or thinking that you're going to have to [retain] the comp ratio at a pretty similar level through the year, if indeed we don't see any uptick in revenues and they remain reasonably flat?

MARIANNE LAKE: So --

JAMIE DIMON: I'd just use 32%.

MARIANNE LAKE: We've given a range 30% to 35%. We've been at the lower end of that range. When we performed very strongly we could drift up. If we perform less strongly, we pay for performance and I think we did a good job in the first quarter.

JAMIE DIMON: We have among the lowest ratio.

CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: Okay, thanks.

JAMIE DIMON: We're paying our people properly and well.

MARIANNE LAKE: And consistently.

CHRISTOPHER WHEELER: But I'm not [be] talking about the quality of the ratio. I'm interested in (inaudible) because clearly what we're seeing are mostly this, and indeed in Europe, is the difficulty of building a pool when you have been so used to having a very strong first quarter, obviously makes it quite difficult. Maybe just as a follow-up which is vaguely related, could I just ask, you talked earlier about where there's question about competition and picking up market share, which indeed you clearly have. But one of the questions I perhaps just wanted to ask is, I know that you've been pushing hard on these equities, cash equities in particular.

My sense is that actually a lot of the players, including the Europeans who are doing massively structural, are putting more capital into equities on the back of the fact that it's a lower capital business and therefore they think they can get higher returns. And just maybe that's why [Nomura] pulled out of European equities yesterday. What are you seeing in the equity space in particular, because I'm not seeing as much sort of withdrawal as we have done in the fixed space?

MARIANNE LAKE: That's very fair. And we've talked about it pretty often, that people when they restructure, they restructure out of the things that they were less strong at, less comfortable at, and in many cases they double down where they continue to have strength. And we are seeing that. And that's what we mean when we say there's always someone left to fiercely compete in every part of our business, and equities is no exception. It's not the poster child for that.

However, the equities business here at JPMorgan, we've rebuilt our technology platform. We have rebuilt the prime -- we've built the prime brokerage, international capabilities. The two of those work hand in glove. And we have every opportunity to continue to gain share and win.

JAMIE DIMON: And we've done very well gaining share in electronic trading and the prime broker has been built in Asia and Europe where we had weaknesses. So you've seen our share go up and we intend to win it. We have topnotch research, which obviously helps drive the equity business too.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. Marianne, just as a follow-up I just want to make sure I understood you correctly. On the $500 million of incremental reserve build for energy for the remainder of the year, that's for the total of the following nine months is that correct?

MARIANNE LAKE: That's correct.

GERARD CASSIDY: I mean, give or take.

MARIANNE LAKE: Give or take, and that's right. Obvious are there's a high degree of variability around it. If we had complete ability to understand it we would lean into those reserves. But it's name specific and situation specific, it would evolve over time. We just wanted to give you an indication that there's likely to be some more costs. It could be plus or minus quite a bit from that because we've had to make stress assumptions in there. But $500 million for nine months, yes.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay, thank you. And then I know there was the energy specific shared national credit exam that the first quarter results for the industry will reflect similar to your own. But we also have the traditional shared national credit exam that's been done for 20-plus years. Any color on how that's going, the normal shared national credit exam?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. No Gerard, I'm not going to make any comments about SNC, except to say that everything that we know and aware of is reflected in our results.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD: Hi. Two quick follow-ups, Marianne. Getting a couple questions about just the math on the energy reserve ratio. I think you mentioned 6.3%. Just to be clear, is that the reserve for loans, over-funded loans, and then there's an additional reserve for unfunded commitments?

MARIANNE LAKE: Correct. Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, got it. And then did you tell us the size of your energy commitments and whether they changed at all this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: They changed by a couple of billion dollars on a single name that we like, up.

OPERATOR: And there are no further questions at this time.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thanks very much.

JAMIE DIMON: Wait. Before you all go. We should say goodbye to Sarah Youngwood who goes on to a bigger and brighter job as CFO of the Consumer Bank, and she did an outstanding job. And she's succeeded by Jason, who's going to say hi right now.

JASON SCOTT, HEAD OF IR, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Hello, hi.

JAMIE DIMON: So congratulations. You guys have done an outstanding job.

SARAH YOUNGWOOD, CFO CONSUMER BANKING, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Thank you.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you, everyone. I nearly forgot.

OPERATOR: Thank you for joining today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160414ec4d000b6
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
11,378 words
   PD
14 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your lines will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.

   TD
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning everybody. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1, the firm reported net income of $5.4 billion, EPS of $1.32, and a return on tangible common equity of 11% on $23.7 billion of revenue. Included in the results is legal expense of $400 million after-tax for a range of matters, and we continue to put some issues behind us. This is reflected in a reduction of more than $1 billion to our reasonably possible loss estimate this quarter.

In addition, we recognized the benefit of a settlement reached of $300 million after-tax, which related to moneys owed to Washington Mutual, in connection with a failed savings and loan institution. We've shown this on the page as legal related, and the benefits recorded in revenue in Corporate.

Much like we saw in the third quarter, the overall Company's performance benefited from diversification across our businesses. We saw strong growth in Consumer drivers, on the back of improvement in the US economy, in large part generating core loan growth of 16% for the Company.

Global markets remained challenged across a number of fronts, leading to lower client activity and lower inventory. Against this backdrop, the CIB delivered solid performance across products. And in the quarter, we continued our trend of strong balance sheet, capital and expense discipline, and exceeded targets.

Shifting to the full year's results, if you skip over page 2, on page 3, the firm earned record net income of $24.4 billion, and record EPS of $6 a share. And a return on tangible common equity of 13.5% on revenue of nearly $97 billion. Revenue was down 1%, or $1.3 billion, driven by non-core items, most notably by business simplification in the Investment Bank, and also in private equity. Adjusted, our underlying businesses were up modestly.

We're very happy with our expense story for the year. We delivered adjusted expense of $56 billion, down $2.4 billion, and a 2 percentage point decrease in adjusted overhead ratio. And while we did have a modest benefit from the strengthening dollar this year, we also self funded incremental investments.

Credit performance was strong, in line with our expectations, with net charge-offs at $4.1 billion. With obviously the biggest area of stress in Wholesale being Oil & Gas, against which we built about $550 million in reserves this year, including $124 million this quarter. And as the outlook for oil has weakened, we would expect to see some additional reserve built in 2016, but prices would need to remain at this level for an extended period for them to be significant.

We also built $68 million of reserves in metals and mining, including $35 million this quarter. We're watching this sector closely, and similarly, if commodity prices remain at current levels, we would expect some additional reserve build, but would not expect them to be significant. Finally, net capital distributions for the year were approximately $11 billion, including dividends of $1.72 a share.

Turning to page 4. Starting on the top left, overall, our average balance sheet is down $100 billion year on year, and our spot balance sheet down over $200 billion, with of course the biggest driver being the reduction of approximately $200 billion of Wholesale nonoperating deposits, ultimately reflected in lower cash balances. In addition, you can see notable reductions in all other balance sheet categories, except for loans, which reflects the 16% core loan growth we achieved.

Some portion of the other Wholesale balance reductions were purposeful and will be sticky, particularly the decrease in short-term Wholesale funding balances. The remainder resulted from volatile markets and general deleveraging, driving risk off and lower inventory across products. As client demand for leverage grows, we will likely out put some of that balance sheet back to work.

Moving to the right. The story on deposits continues to be a very positive one, as we delivered some incremental reductions in nonoperating balances, while consistently growing retail and operating deposits. On the bottom left, overall NII was up about $300 million, driving a 7 basis point improvement in NIM. The increase in NII reflects a mix shift to loans, but also includes gains on certain securities and the impact of the rate move in December on this quarter's NII was not significant.

Looking forward to the first quarter, expect firm NII and NIM to be flat to up slightly on higher rates and mix, substantially offset by the absence of those security gains, as well as normal seasonal day count. However, for the full year, with the December rate hike alone, so in a rate flat scenario, together with the loan growth that we have seen and expect, we would expect to deliver about $2 billion of incremental NII.

Perhaps the highlight of this page, on the bottom right, is that based upon the actions we've taken throughout the course of 2015, we believe that we have just reached the 3.5% Method 2 G-SIB bucket, and that we are in or close to the 2% Method 1 G-SIB bucket. So the task ahead is to solidify this position, which we'll talk more about at Investor Day.

Turning to page 5. We're ending the year well ahead of our capital targets, with the firm's advanced fully phased in CET1 ratio at 11.6%, and our standardized fully phased in ratio at 11.7%. The improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation, along with an overall reduction in risk weighted assets. With net loan growth being more than offset by lower market risk, reductions in derivatives, as well as secured financing balances and these deliver a more meaningful reduction under the standardized approach. But with reference to my earlier comments on redeploying balance sheet, a portion of this reduction will likely reverse in the near future.

Firm and Bank SLR were at 6.5% and 6.6%, respectively. Finally, we returned $2.6 billion of net capital to shareholders this quarter, including $1 billion of net repurchases, and common dividends of $0.44 a share.

Let's turn to page 6, and Consumer and Community banking. The combined Consumer businesses generated $2.4 billion of net income, on revenue of $11.2 billion, and an ROE of 18% for the quarter. And full-year expense was down by nearly $1 billion, or half of our commitment, if you adjust for legal, and $150 million of incremental investments this year. Going forward, we will look for opportunities to further reinvest.

You can see headcount was down by 12,000 for the year, and nearly 43,000 since 2012. The fundamental business drivers remain strong. Year over year, average loans were up 11%, with core loans up 25% driven by mortgage, but with strength across products. Average deposits were up 10%. We added nearly 600,000 households, and our active mobile customer base continues to grow, up 20%, to roughly 23 million customers, the largest of the major US banks.

Moving to page 7, Consumer and Business Banking. CBB generated strong results for the quarter, with net income of $968 million, and an ROE of 32%, on relatively flat revenue of $4.6 billion. Although NII was flat quarter on quarter, it was down 5% year on year on spread compression, largely offset by that 10% deposit growth.

And excluding an $85 million gain on the sale of a branch, non-interest revenue was down 3% seasonally and up 4% year on year, driven by higher service fees and strong debit volume. We expect NIR to show normal seasonal declines in the first quarter. Expense was down 3% year on year on lower headcount from branch efficiency. And additionally, client assets were up 2%, and Business Banking average loan balances up 6%.

Next, Mortgage Banking on page 8. Overall net income was $266 million, originations in the quarter were $23 billion, down seasonally, and we continued to add high-quality loans to our balance sheet, $16 billion for the quarter, and totaling $70 billion for the full year. Total revenue of $1.7 billion increased 8% sequentially, on strong loan growth, as well as on higher MSR risk management.

For the full year, our non-interest revenue was down relative to 2014 by $1.2 billion, broadly in line with our guidance and that downward trend will continue, as servicing balances continue to decline, and as we expect production margins will compress in the smaller market. We expect the decline in 2016 to be around $700 million.

Expense of $1.2 billion ticked up this quarter, related to exiting the OCC's consent order, but it was down 10% year on year, as we continue to manage costs. Finally, on credit, net charge-offs of 13 basis points reflects the quality of our portfolio.

Moving on to page 9, Card, Commerce Solutions and Auto. Overall net income of $1.2 billion, and an ROE of 24%.

Revenue was $5 billion, up 10% year on year, driven principally by two nonrecurring items. The first was a loss in the prior year of over $200 million that related to non-core portfolio exits, and a gain we saw this quarter of about $160 million, on the IPO of Square. Adjusted the revenue rate was 11.9%. And in terms of core performance, business drivers were strong, and growth offset the impact of co-brand renewals on non-interest revenues, while driving growth in NII.

Year over year, we saw growth of 12% in auto, loan and lease balances, 6% in card sales volumes, 3% in cards core loans, as well as 12% and 14% in merchant processing volumes and transactions, respectively. Expense of $2.2 billion, flat quarter on quarter, but up 4% year on year, reflected higher depreciation on auto lease growth. And we expect expense to be relatively flat into the first quarter, as we continue to invest.

While on auto, 2015 set a record for new car sales, with strength in the fourth quarter continuing through December. And we gained nearly 40 basis points of share year over year, with the strength of our manufacturing partnerships driving growth.

Finally, on credit, in auto, net charge-offs were 50 basis points, and while higher, they were still below our long-term expectations. And in cards, the net charge-off rate was 242 basis points for the quarter, 251 for the year. And given our underwriting discipline, client selection and the improving economy, we expect net charge-offs to stay at these levels in 2016.

Now turning to page 10, and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $1.7 billion, on revenue of $7.1 billion, and an ROE of 10%. In Investment Banking for the full year, we continued to rank number one in global IB fees, and number one in North America and EMEA.

In M&A, we maintained our number two ranking, and grew wallet share by 50 basis points. In ECM, we ranked number one globally, up from number three last year. And in DCM, we ranked number one across high yield, high grade and loans.

Banking revenue for the quarter of $1.5 billion was down 11%, driven by lower debt underwriting fees. It was another outstanding performance in advisory fees, up 43% for the quarter, in a market that was down 12, largely driven by North America. Equity underwriting fees were down 4% in a market down 12, with the US remaining somewhat slow, but a resurgence of large transactions in Europe and Asia. And debt underwriting fees were down 43% from a record last year, where we saw an unprecedented number of large fee events.

Treasury services revenue was flat quarter on quarter, but down 4% year on year on lower deposit spreads. In markets, a number of factors contributed to a quiet fourth quarter overall, across products. Investor risk appetite was significantly dampened by a series of market events, and clients retrenched and de-risked early. With that backdrop, the markets businesses delivered $3.6 billion in revenue, in line with our expectations and normal seasonal trends, with adjusted revenues down 16% sequentially and 1% year on year.

In Fixed Income, rates markets were up, given US and ECB monetary policy actions, offset by year-on-year declines in currencies in emerging markets, as the strong dollar and emerging markets uncertainty [things] persisted as well as the Commodities on reduced hedging and declines in credit on all those same things, plus a number of single-name corporate events. Equities delivered solid results, flat excluding the exit of broker dealer services last year, with strong performance in Europe being offset by lower deal flow in North America and Asia, compared to a strong prior year.

With respect to the first quarter, reflecting low levels of client activity, we were light risk going into the year end, and inventory was low and so far, our trading businesses are performing well. But as you know, it is early, and it's difficult to predict how the quarter will play out.

Security services revenue was $933 million, in line with guidance, given the continued impact of lower emerging markets on asset-based fees. For the first quarter, expect revenue to be approximately $900 million, which includes seasonality.

On credit, we saw a reserve build of $76 million, which included $63 million related to Oil & Gas. Finally, expense of $4.4 billion was down 20% year on year, mainly driven by lower legal, the comp to revenue ratio was 26% for the quarter, and 30% for the full year.

Moving on to page 11 and the Commercial Bank. The Commercial Bank generated net income of $550 million, on revenue of $1.8 billion, and an ROE of 15%. Revenue was up sequentially, but relatively flat year on year, with NII up 3% on higher loan balances, despite spread compression, offset by lower IB revenue from a strong quarter last year. However, for the full year, it was a record for Investment Banking, with gross revenue of $2.2 billion, up 10% from 2014.

Expense of $750 million included $50 million of impairment on leased Corporate aircraft. On the reassessment of residual values, the remaining balance sheet value of this portfolio is modest.

We saw record average loan balances of $166 billion, up 14% year on year, with growth in Commercial Real Estate of 17% exceeding the industry, as we continue to invest in this business and gain share. In C&I, loans were up 11%, largely driven by Corporate client banking on the back of several large transactions.

Finally, credit performance of the portfolio does remain strong, with only 4 basis points of net charge-offs. However, we did add $100 million to reserves, $60 million of which relates to Oil & Gas and $26 million for Metals & Mining.

Moving on to page 12, Asset Management. Asset Management reported net income of $500 million, with a 27% pretax margin and 21% ROE, on revenue of $3 billion, down 5% year on year, driven by lower performance fees in alternatives. Expense of $2.2 billion was also down 5% year on year, roughly equally explained by lower performance fee-driven compensation, as well as a benefit from refining the value of the health of that asset. Assets under management of $1.7 trillion, and client assets of $2.4 trillion, were down 1% and 2% year over year, respectively.

We saw mixed flows in the fourth quarter, resulting in long-term net outflows of $9 billion, with solid inflows in equities being more than offset by weakness in Fixed Income and the loss of select mandates. However, we had strong long-term investment performance, with 80% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years, which should be supportive of future flows And for the full year, we had positive long-term inflows of $16 billion. In lending, we had record balances of $110 billion, up 7% year on year, driven by both mortgage, as well as traditional loans.

Turning to page 13 and Corporate. Treasury and CIO reported net income of $138 million for the quarter. Included in this result, there is a pretax benefit of $178 million, relating to certain securities held at a discount, that were called at par. And this was in our NII. Other Corporate net income of $84 million included a net benefit of $60 million after-tax, for the legal related matters we discussed earlier, as well as a contribution to our foundation this quarter of $150 million pretax.

Turning to page 14. I've given you some guidance throughout the presentation, and this page is for your reference. Obviously, when we get to Investor Day, we will give you a comprehensive outlook for each of our businesses for the year.

So in summary, a solid quarter, and a record for the full year, both in terms of net income and EPS, which even on higher capital, translates to a good return on tangible common equity of 13.5%. We exceeded our targets on expense management, generating positive operating leverage and improving our adjusted overhead ratio by 2 percentage points. Delivered strong core loan growth of 16%, materially changed the mix of our deposit base, including growing retail deposits at 10%, and made meaningful progress on our balance sheet, our G-SIB surcharge, and capital levels.

With that, operator, we'll take Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Your first question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, Marianne.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: So, curious about whether or not you all have seen the stress we've seen in some of the credit and equity markets, and some of the volatility impacting M&A velocity appetite, amongst Boards and C-suites, broadly, in your conversations and throughout the IB?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, again, I would say that the pipeline coming into 2016 in M&A was good, solid, up, in fact. Obviously, volatility can dampen the confidence of Boards and CEOs. Dialogues are pretty active, and we think the types of deals that we'll see in 2016 will look different. But I think, in the first couple of weeks, it's not been particularly strong, and we do need to see some of the stability come back, I think, for us to really see that conversion start to pick up.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: And just by different, is that a reference to size, or can you be a bit more specific on what you mean?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, less mega-deals, more mid-sized deals, more cross border. It's a little different. Actually, more deal count, less big mega-deals, could be very constructive for revenue, but we're likely to see it be a little bit different in 2016. But honestly, the pipeline is good, and -- yes.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. (multiple speakers) That's helpful.

MARIANNE LAKE: North America will be a tough comp. It was very strong in 2015, but Europe could be very constructive.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Terrific. Helpful. And then, you referenced energy prices staying this low would lead to a significant reserve build, you expect, in your energy book. Can you maybe give a little bit more color around that? How would you define significant? And how long would oil need to stay down here, in order to see some of that reserve action?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So, the way we do our reserves, just for context, because I think it's important is, obviously the oil price outlook is important and instructive. And it's very clearly going to drive how we think about probabilities of default and loss, given [default for] certain of our customers.

But I think it's also the case, just for context, to know that it is very name-by-name specific. Specific conditions at clients matter greatly. And so when we do these estimates, they are directionally correct, and order of magnitude correct. But that's just for context.

Oil -- we said last quarter, if oil reached $30 a barrel, and here we are, and stayed there for, call it, 18 months, you could expect to see reserve builds of up to $750 million. And that assessment hasn't fundamentally changed.

So, it is not the current market expectation that oil will flatline. It is the expectation, right now, that there will be a modest recovery. Based upon that, we would expect to take some additional reserves, but for them to be more modest, less significant. But that's the range; if oil's at $30 and stays here for a long time, up to $750 million.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. I wanted to follow up on the Oil & Gas question. It just seems as though $124 million in additional provisions for Oil & Gas could be low, at least based on the one-year forward prices for oil, which are still in the $30s. And so, my question is for Jamie. As you look back, how does the Oil & Gas situation today compare to prior periods of stress? We have 2002; we had the TMT meltdown.

When you were at Bank One, you reduced the lines of credit. You got ahead of that early. In 2007, you weren't exactly at the start, but then you adjusted and you said -- hey, this is a big issue.

And now we have Oil & Gas, which could be another industry-specific stress, and you're only taking additional provisions of $124 million. Is that going to be enough? And one year from now, are you going to look back and say -- whoops, we didn't get ahead of this enough.

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & COMPANY: I think, first, I'd say we try to be very conservative, always, and so we're not trying to put up as little as possible. You know me, I'd put up more if I could. But accounting rules dictate what you can do.

And these are baskets of -- the real risk is in producing wells, cash flows are down. Surprisingly, the cost of getting the oil out of the ground has also dropped dramatically, and probably much more than most of us would have expected.

So, you take these producing wells, you take the cash flow, you discount it at 8% or 9%, you lend against it. And so these are our forecasts.

And our energy book isn't that large, relative to JPMorgan Chase. We're not worried about the big oil companies. These are mostly the smaller ones that you're talking about these reserve increases on.

MARIANNE LAKE: I also think, Mike, just --

JAMIE DIMON: And the forward curve is -- the end of the year, for 2016, I think is more like [$41] or [$42], or something like that.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, it's [$48]. So, hey, Mike, the other thing to know about the profile of reserves -- three things. The first is, it's not linear.

So, just the oil price decline, and the decline in the forward curve that we saw into December and to the end of the year, that's the impact it had on our reserves. It's fallen significantly in the first two quarters. That was not a knowable condition, and we can't reserve for that at the end of the year. That's why we said we would expect to take some more reserve increases in the next couple of quarters.

But again, it's a name-specific thing. And lots of other conditions at clients matter, including their hedging, their cash flows, the level of security, all those things.

MIKE MAYO: And how do you use CDS to help protect yourself on that portfolio?

JAMIE DIMON: We don't.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, you don't. And then, the last follow-up: Do you intend to keep lending to the Oil & Gas companies, as they run into problems? On the one hand, you have the risk of throwing good money after bad. On the other hand, if you stop lending as much, and you have the high-yield market retreating, and you have private equity firms retreating, maybe it becomes a liquidity crisis for some of the oil companies.

So, which is it? Do you lend more or less to the Oil & Gas sector?

JAMIE DIMON: First of all, the oil folks have been surprisingly resilient. And remember, these are asset-backed loans, so a bankruptcy doesn't necessarily mean your loan is bad.

So, you have to be a little bit careful in -- and it's also, Mike, a philosophical thing. A bank is supposed to be there for clients in good times and bad times. So, it's not a trading market, where you try to support clients.

So, to the extent we can responsibly support clients, we're going to. And if we lose a little bit more money because of it, so be it.

And we've done that around the world. We did it in 2007 and 2008 and 2009. We try to do it responsibly. If banks just completely pull out of markets every time something gets volatile and scary, you'll be sinking companies left and right.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with [Stewart] Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, good morning. Marianne, was wondering if you could remind us where you are on your expense reduction targets in the Consumer and the Investment Bank? And how does that translate to some thoughts about the expected trajectory of total Firm-wide expenses for this year?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, let me just deal with where we are against our targets. So, the most notable targets were $2 billion in the Consumer businesses in 2017 versus 2014, and $2.8 billion in the CIB in 2017 versus 2014.

You probably heard my comment, but to clarify, on an apples-to-apples basis, we're halfway through on Consumer. We've done $1 billion this year. You don't see that 100% translate into the results, partly because of legal expense, which is not something that we particularly can predict, and hopefully won't be there forever. Also, because we intentionally decisioned in 2015, in the fourth quarter in particular, or mostly, to increase our investments in the Consumer businesses by $150 million.

So, we've achieved the $1 billion. We chose to reinvest a portion of it. Another $1 billion we're on track for. We will potentially reinvest some of that, too. And Gordon and we will talk to you about the basis for that at Investor Day.

On the $2.8 billion in the CIB, we're $1.3 billion through at the end of the year. And we talked before about the fact that the first $1.3 billion is largely on business simplification. We've had the revenue decline. We need to have the expense decline, and we've worked hard to deliver that, and we have.

The next chunk is to do with technology and operations and infrastructure and organization, and it's harder. And so, we will continue with them on track to deliver it, but it's going to be a job through 2016 and into 2017.

JOHN MCDONALD: And how does that all net in to an outlook for this year, if you're willing to give us some thoughts on that?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I can give you some thoughts that won't totally satisfy you, which is our core expenses will continue to trend down, on the back of delivering against them. But we will make investment decisions that we think are good for the Company, accretive for shareholders, that will re-spend some of that money. And so we'll give you that shrink and grow at Investor Day.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. I was wondering if you could talk to us a little bit about the benefits from rates, as they come through? Obviously, your commentary that NII will be even flattish in the first quarter, adjusted for day count, and even with some securities gains in the numbers this quarter, presumes a nice helper from that first move.

And you guys were really conservative on your deposit beta thoughts, when you talked about them previously. I know, probably you haven't seen much change yet. But how are you expecting the deposit behavior to act? And has there been any change to your modeling expectations about what might come through, as we get through the first couple of hikes?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, just on NII, yes, we are seeing, embedded in that NII, flat to up slightly. We are seeing a nice lift associated with the rate hike in December across businesses, as well as the continued benefit of the mix towards loans in our balance sheet. But we were flatted in our NII this quarter by $178 million on securities gains in CIO. So, that's going to mean the comparison is challenging, and then day count is obviously seasonal.

So, that's the dynamic. We are seeing the rate benefit. We do expect to see it, as I said in my remarks, for the full year.

Look, we think we are appropriately conservative on deposit [beta's]. It is not -- it is way too early to have any idea. There's -- virtually nothing has moved yet. And so, our job, and what we are doing, is paying very close attention to the competitive landscape.

These deposits that we're talking about, that have the high beta's, are valuable deposits with valuable clients for us, and we want to be competitive and pay fair rates. But it's so early in the movie that we haven't changed much in our modeling assumptions.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And my second question -- if I can ask an ex-energy credit question? A lot of concerns are that we're going to get into some type of broader deterioration, of which your numbers showed no signs of heading towards. What are you looking for? Are you seeing any signals of ex-energy changes in either delinquencies or watch trends? And are you still comfortable with that low [4%s] type of charge-off expectation that you guys had talked about previously? Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: So, energy, Metals & Mining, we're watching very closely, industries that could have knock-on effects like industrials and transportation. But we're not seeing anything broadly, in our portfolio, right now.

We're just watching very closely, which is why -- now, obviously, you can take our reserve build number, and you can say it's almost substantially all made up of Oil & Gas and Metals & Mining. And behind the scenes, we've had upgrades and downgrades of a number of other different companies, across sectors, but nothing particularly thematic yet. But we're watching.

JAMIE DIMON: I would just point our that Credit Card, Commercial Bank, middle market, large corporate credit is as good as it's ever been. So obviously, it's going to get a little bit worse. I wouldn't call it a cycle, per se.

If you have a recession, yes, you will see a normal cyclical increase in all those losses. We're not forecasting a recession. We think that the US economy looks pretty good at this point.

OPERATOR: Your next question --

MARIANNE LAKE: Based on that, with the obvious caveat of what happens with oil prices and energy over the course of the near future, yes, we would still expect our charge-offs to be relatively low.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, ISI: Hi, thank you. So, I think you talked about some of this, Marianne, in terms of the Method 2 G-SIB surcharge now estimated at 3.5%. I'm just curious -- I think, if the numbers are right, you took down notionals, and that there's booked $3.4 trillion, $21 billion in level 3 assets, $50 billion in non-op deposits.

You've said that you don't want to be an outlier, so you're whittling that down. I'm curious of the driving force behind it. What kind of revenue give-up there is, in such a move like this, because we like it. And thoughts on the go-forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, look, we talked about achieving 4% last quarter, I think; and for disclosure, we were quite close to 3.5%. At that point, it becomes increasingly compelling to want to look at the margin, for what you could do to get within the bucket. And so that is what we did in the fourth quarter, is spend time really focusing on getting to that achievable boundary, which we thought at that point it was.

And remember, it's not nothing, in the year, that we started the year thinking we would exit $100 billion of non-operating deposits. And while there still could be some volatility in that number, of course, we've almost doubled that -- or doubled that, in fact.

So, we got some wind to our backs in doing it. It's also the case that, when you get the entire Business and Company attuned to the sense of urgency and desire to want to be increasingly efficient in this way, that, at the margin, in a 100 different things, little benefits accrue.

So, look, we're at about 3.5% -- we're just inside the 3.5% bucket, as best we estimate it. It's not as much important whether we're basis points or surcharge points below or above. It's much more what we do now to get safely in the bucket. And that's going to still take work. So that's why -- we'll obviously talk to you more about this at Investor Day.

In terms of the give-up, from an economics perspective, we wouldn't have done it at any cost. We have done it because we think it is important to do, because we think it's going to be constructive for the Company, and because the revenue give-ups were not significant. But they weren't zero, either. But to be able to reduce a constraint that is, in one way or another, likely to bind us -- or in multiple ways, in fact, likely to bind us, it was a, I think, very good trade.

JAMIE DIMON: It was done, effectively, client by client.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JAMIE DIMON: To make sure we were trying to do the right things for our clients; not just jamming our balance sheet down and hurting people.

GLENN SCHORR: Fair enough. I just have one quick follow-up, on Ken's last question: If two-thirds of the economy is consumer-led, you look at all your early-stage delinquencies, like Ken said. And, Jamie, to your comments, things look okay. I hate putting words in your mouth, but what do you think the disconnect, then, is, between what's going on in the markets versus what's going on in the trends in your Business, both in terms of growth and forward-looking credit looks?

JAMIE DIMON: The US economy has been chugging along at 2% to 2.5% growth for the better part of five years now. In the last two years, it has created 5 million jobs. If you look at the actual household formation -- car sales, wage, people working -- it still looks okay.

Corporate credit is quite good. Small business formation -- it's not back to where it was, but it's quite good. Household formation's going up.

So obviously, market turmoil, we all look at it every day. But I'm not sure most of the 143 million Americans look at it that much, who have jobs; and you have a big change in the world out there. People are getting adjusted to China slowing down. When you have commodity prices go down like that, there are big winners and losers.

The oil companies are the losers; consumer is a benefit. Brazil gets hurt. India benefits. South Korea benefits. Japan benefits. And those cause troubling waters. And hopefully, this will all settle down, and it's not the beginning of something really bad.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Hi. The disclosure around the Oil & Gas is really helpful. And I was wondering if you could just walk through something similar on Metals & Mining? So, you gave us the -- I think you said $68 million of full-year reserve build, and you gave us the not-significant, if things stay where they are. Can you give us the balance?

And then, is there a comparable $500 million to $750 million stress test for Oil & Gas, or stress case? Is there a comparable -- what is the stress case, if broader Commodities, and Metals & Mining, comes in worse?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So our total reserves, on balance sheet, for Metals & Mining, or notwithstanding we built $60 million-odd this year, is over $200 million. So the coverage ratio is pretty good.

The exposure is about -- I haven't got the precise numbers in front of me. They're [about] a third the size of our exposure to Oil & Gas, so about 2% of our overall wholesale credit exposure; so, considerably more modest. Which is why, if energy prices and general commodities weakness and stress stayed where it is right now, even for an extended period, we would think that the incremental reserves would be considerably more modest.

JAMIE DIMON: And it's also -- that one is mostly name by name.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, for sure.

JAMIE DIMON: It's not big asset-based reserves. It's just -- they're big corporate credits, name by name.

MARIANNE LAKE: And for both Oil & Gas and Metals & Mining in our portfolio, Oil & Gas is close to 60% investment grade, and Metals & Mining about half.

BRIAN FORAN: And then on -- I guess staying with credit -- on home equities and the whole issue of free cash from interest [home-made] amortizing, can you lay out how it's progressed, relative to your expectations so far? And also remind us how big the allocation of the reserve is against that?

And I guess, not to lead the witness, but is that an area where things are trending, early days, better than expected, and could provide some buffer against, maybe, anything else that happens on the C&I side?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, with respect to home equity [re-class], remember, the majority of the problematic home equity underwriting was 2005 through 2008. So here we are, at the beginning of 2016, with [pig filling the python]. But we're monitoring it closely, and we have some re-class that have happened.

Obviously, interest rates are low. Home price appreciation, on the other hand, is your friend. So there are puts and takes.

We've been monitoring it, I would say, at the margin, or more than at the margin, at the early stages, coming in better than we had modeled. And remember, from an incurred loss perspective, we would consider these re-class risks to be largely incurred, so we've tried to reserve them, to the best of our ability. So we feel good about our reserve. I don't think we've disclosed them. But so far, from a performance perspective, I would say slightly better than our models. But we continue to monitor it, because it's still relatively early.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

BETSY GRASECK: Marianne, I know that the Basel Committee put our their fundamental review of the trading book proposal this morning. So, clearly, no one's had time to really go through it in detail. However, I'm sure you have already gone through the prior proposals, and done the QIS for the last couple of years. The proposal is better than what had been -- the ruling is better than what the proposal -- the most recent one had been.

Just wanted to get a sense from you, as to how you can manage to this 2019 implementation time frame? Are there things set in motion already? Or is this something that you would start from here? And if you could just give us some broad strokes on how you think about overall impact, that would be helpful.

MARIANNE LAKE: So obviously, you'll forgive me because we've been on calls since it came out. But, yes, we have been working on this for years.

The problem with this particular rule is that, as you stated, based upon the four QIS's that were done, there were some, I would characterize, significant challenges, with respect to the rules as written. And we were expecting there to be a number of meaningful changes, and there have been; in many cases, meaningful improvements.

But it's very technical, and there's been a lot of changes, so we need to sift through it to figure out, net-net everything. Although it is clear that net-net, despite the fact of the stated intention of the committee wasn't necessary to increase market risk capital across the industry, it will be higher. But by how much, it's really going to need to be sifted through.

And for that same reason -- for both those same reasons, I'm sorry -- for the reason that the rule has not been stable and there have been significant questions, many of which have been either addressed or partially addressed, and many, I guess, that have not, it would have been premature to have taken any actions in advance of figuring out where this has landed. And, as you know, the period to comply is three years. So it's more of a start from here, to figure out how to manage with this, after we've sifted through the details.

So, I wish I were able to give you a little bit more of a detailed answer, but we're going to need to take the time to go through it.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, I totally understand that. And I guess my basic question is: There's -- you can take action, as opposed to just deal with what the current decision would be for you. There are actions that you can take to reduce the impact?

MARIANNE LAKE: There are always actions that we can take to reduce the impact. And so, we have to think about them in the context of our overall capital optimization program.

And, again, if there are -- if some of the things that we hoped -- and I -- honestly, I've been on calls since it came out. So, if some of the things that we hoped were going to be addressed have not, they could have had, or may have, meaningful impact on specific types of activity. And we will have to react accordingly. And, yes, we will take actions, if that's the right answer. I wish I could give you more details, but we just need to go through it.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Steve Chubak with Nomura.

STEVE CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good morning.

STEVE CHUBAK: I had a couple of questions on capital. The first relates to the RWA progress, which did surprise positively in the year, by about $50 billion ahead of expectations. And I was just hoping you can give a better sense, Marianne, just given some of your prepared remarks, as to how much of that incremental $50 billion reduction was a function of more proactive mitigation efforts? Maybe even tied to the G-SIB mitigation efforts that you guys had talked about, which should presumably remain in the run rate, versus balance sheet shrinkage that may be due to the risk loss environment that we're experiencing today?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, I would say that, based upon our fourth-quarter balance sheet, given that market risk was a driver, given that balance sheet levels was a driver, particularly on standardized, we could give back, on standardized, as much as 10 to 20 bps of capital, of the 10.7% capital accretion. But the bigger point, on the RWA outlook, is that we expect to be bound, over the medium term, by standardized. And standardized is going to always have a neutral to upwards pressure, as we continue to grow these high-quality loans.

So, even though the RWA, being at the $1.5 trillion-ish sooner than we expected, is obviously good news. Regardless of how much of that may, in the short term, revert, our job is going to be to continue to become more efficient, to try and keep it there, just given the natural upward pressure of the standardized calculations. We can become more efficient in advance, but we're unlikely to be bound by it in the medium term. So, that's what we're focused on.

So, I wouldn't take the $1.5 trillion, and read through that we'll be continuing to decline from here on standardized. We'll be continuing to work hard to make sure that we can grow those loans that we love, but that have (inaudible) [risk weights] under a standardized basis.

STEVE CHUBAK: Understood, Marianne. That's very helpful.

And then, maybe just switching gears to the G-SIB surcharge, clearly the progress surprised positively, getting down to that 3.5%. I was just wondering how you guys are thinking about establishing minimum capital targets? I recognize you'll likely lay that out at Investor Day.

Just want to get a better sense as to what methodology are you employing, in terms of thinking about a management buffer? And all the different binding constraints that you have to manage to day-to-day? And thinking about through-the-cycle target that you guys would like to manage to?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. If I miss something at the end, remind me.

In terms of how we think about buffers, just really conceptually, the Firm manages, and the Board has set for the Firm, a risk appetite. That risk appetite has a number of features, and capital depletion in a stressed environment is one of them. And so, when we think about setting buffers, we think about it just broadly in the context of allowing ourselves enough room to absorb losses that are within our risk appetite, and not have to take premature actions, from a capital perspective.

So -- but having said that, our buffer has been pretty consistent, at the 50-basis-point level, for a reasonable period of time. And we'll update you on all of that at Investor Day.

With respect to our targets, it's a little bit more complicated than minimum regulatory capital, because as you say, we're bound, potentially, by multiple constraints, and one of them may be CCAR. Plus -- it is CCAR, I should say. Because as you know, the first two quarters of this year, our capital distribution plans have already been approved. And we haven't done CCAR, so this is not any kind of prediction, but it wouldn't surprise you to know that it's unlikely that we will pay out 100% of our earnings in CCAR, going forward.

So, we are on a path to continue to accrete capital, though we would like to move up in our pay-out range. So, given that we're still moving towards our 12% target, and we will update you if any of that changes at Investor Day. We're also, as you know, potentially going to understand whether or not the Fed changes any of the CCAR parameters, and whether that has an impact.

So, at the moment, the best we know is that we're going to continue to accrete capital, albeit more slowly, as we hope to move up in the pay-out range, but we haven't done CCAR yet. And that's if the rules don't change. So, 12% it is for now.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks. Marianne, if I could just clarify your NII comment from the very beginning of the call, do I understand correctly that the $2 billion of incremental NII that you've cited is just a function of the repricing dynamics, as they move through your balance sheet, rather -- or is there also, I guess, a contribution from loan growth?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's both. So, think about -- in a [rate-sat] scenario, when you can pick whether you believe the market -- whether you think the market is -- or whether you believe the [FONC docs]. And I think it's going to be data dependent, so we're not going to have a stated opinion on that.

But because of the mix in our balance sheet in 2015, as well as our expectation of continued loan growth, we would expect mix to contribute about half of that. And defer 25 basis points about the next half because we are more sensitive to the front end of rates in the first 25 basis points. And you can see that in our earnings and risk disclosures. So -- even if we see nothing else.

Now, obviously, we believe, and the market believes that you're going to see a couple more hikes. That would be, on average, another 25 basis points, and that would be incremental NII again.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Thank you. And so, I know we just touched on RWAs, but how do you suggest we think about GAAP assets for this year?

MARIANNE LAKE: I would say I would think about them in a somewhat similar directional way, given that our balance sheet ended below $2.4 trillion, a little bit of it market delivered, a lot of it purposeful. But we do intend to continue to gather deposits and extend loans, and while you're -- and portfolio loans, as well. So, while you will see some securities balances decline and the like, I would say again, net modest growth, but modest, and very lending driven.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH: Good morning. I just wanted to -- I had a follow-up question on Fixed Income trading. I think Dan Pinto has talked about benefits from higher rates. And so, I guess number one, I wanted to see if you had any thoughts on that? Have you seen any initial benefits to spreads in the FICC trading market, with the first rate hike?

And in contrast, you've had a couple of competitors announce -- or at least it's reported -- that they're cutting headcount. That seems to be a little bit in contrast to the expectation that Fixed Income could pick up with higher rates. So, if you could talk through your thoughts on Fixed Income?

I do notice that you did mention 1Q is off to performing well, so maybe that's part of it, too. But if you could help on that, that would be great.

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So, in terms of the impact of rates, obviously there was a lot of monetary policy confusion. Broadly, in the fourth quarter, the ECB underwhelmed the Fed, was (inaudible). So there was a lot of confusion. But by the time the rate hike happened, it was obviously pretty well understood. We did see strong activity, or strong client activity, relatively speaking, on the back of that in the rates business, more so than necessarily about spreads.

With respect to the Fixed Income business, we've always been very disciplined about how we think about the staffing levels and the expenses in that business. We've managed it very carefully. The compensation has come down across the trading businesses, and it wouldn't surprise you that some of that -- a lot of that has been in Fixed Income. And our business is at scale and productive. So --

JIM MITCHELL: All right. So, you still feel pretty comfortable with your outlook that things could improve, and market share gain potential, as competitors pull back?

JAMIE DIMON: You've seen, in Fixed Income -- we have a very good Fixed Income operation globally, around the world. Rates themselves don't filter through FICC trading directly. I think what Danny was talking about is, if you have healthy economies and confident investors, you have more volume in things like that.

We do see a little bit of repricing taking place, in prime broker, repo, conduit, and some of those things run through FICC. So, that is going to take place as the world adjusts to all the new capital requirements. And obviously, there's a lot of seasonality in the business, which we've experienced for the last decade.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. My questions have been asked and answered.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thanks, Erika.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi. If we look at credit spreads in the bond market, even ex-energy, they've widened considerably. And I'm wondering if this has resulted in wholesale credit being repriced at all? I realize the bond market doesn't set bank loan pricing, but just wondering if you've been able to reprice some of the wholesale customers, or expect being able to do so?

JAMIE DIMON: No, we've seen no real repricing in loans on the balance sheet. You have seen a little bit of -- people are getting other revenues to make up for their credit exposure.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Think about the bank loans as being relationship loans that need to be in the context of [broader] relationship, and everybody is competing for them.

JAMIE DIMON: They barely repriced in 2008 and 2009. Banks were continuing to lend at the existing price. But that was because they -- these were long-term relationships. The bank loan market does not reprice like the markets do.

MATT O'CONNOR: I guess I wonder why. We saw pricing in the debt markets come in considerably over the last several years. C&I pricing came in. I realize it might take some time. But I would think there's the opportunity for at least some repricing around the edges; no?

JAMIE DIMON: We haven't seen it.

MARIANNE LAKE: Also, it's very, very competitive. Everybody has been chasing these loans, and so that's a factor, too. So, we haven't seen it yet.

JAMIE DIMON: And then, if you -- the number in middle market lending, if I remember correctly, if you look at it by client, 60% of the revenues are not loan related. So, clients -- they also know what their relationship is to the bank. And while we need to make a good return on capital, the capital applied to the client is only partially loan related. And that capital, on its own, doesn't earn an adequate return. Simple lending, on its own, is generally not an adequate return business.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning. Jamie, to follow up on your comments about maybe some better pricing in prime brokerage and repo because of the capital requirements, or requiring you guys to raise prices, can you expand upon that? Do you see it growing, where you could get even better pricing going forward, because of less competition? Can you give just more color there?

JAMIE DIMON: I think the better way to look at it is that people seem, in certain of our businesses -- and I mentioned those, and there are some other ones -- capital has been deployed, people have adjusted to the new rules, and you've seen pricing go up. Whether it goes up a lot -- I wouldn't count on it going up a lot more from there.

The markets are going to be competitive at that point. But use of balance sheet, the cost has gone up; not loans, but most of the other stuff.

MARIANNE LAKE: And remember, we think about our prime brokerage business going hand in glove with equity.

JAMIE DIMON: That's correct.

MARIANNE LAKE: And so, while the repricing is helpful, and does -- at the margin, everybody is going to continue to always observe their pricing. We've built our platform internationally; Europe, we are seeing strong demand for our [synthetic pull-outs]. In Asia, we're adding clients -- we've got the wind to our backs.

So, it's an important business to our clients. You're right, there are some other people, potentially, not going to be as aggressive. And if we can take share, we certainly will.

GERARD CASSIDY: Great. And then the follow-up question is: Obviously, the FASB is coming out this quarter with the new loan loss reserve methodology -- the current expected credit loss versus what we're using today -- obviously, the incurred loss model. There's going to be a true-up for everybody. Have you guys given any thought that, when this goes into place, when you may take that true-up? Assuming they say you have to implement it by 2019, or something like that, would you do it much before that, or can you give us some thoughts on your thinking about what's going to happen?

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously, we expect any transition adjustment to go through equity. If we are able to adopt it early, we might do that. I'm not aware that we are. But I could be wrong about that.

OPERATOR: Your last question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. We know that you implemented a new disclosure form in the Mortgage Banking space tread. Did that have any -- you guys had very good Mortgage Banking results. Did that have any impact whatsoever on your operations in the Mortgage Bank?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, yes, obviously, it was -- I think if you add up [cleared plus] other servicing rules, print them out, put them on the floor and stand them next to me, they're a foot taller. So they are very complicated. There's a lot of operational complexity to complying, and we're working very hard at doing that.

I will say, in the quarter, we did -- as part of being cautious about making sure that we're complying, our cycle times were a couple days -- a few days worsened. And so, volumes, our origination volumes, are a little lower than we would have otherwise seen; not a lot. And that's just timing, and it's just days. But not really from a financial results perspective, because of the way we recognize the revenue.

So, I would call it a little bit of teething problems -- across the industry, by the way, not just us -- nothing significant. We are going to get the work finished, and so it's tough, but it is what it is.

PAUL MILLER: And then a follow-up question on your portfolio: You look like you grew your residential loans by about $11 billion. Last quarter, you said it was a mix between agency and jumbo. If a big chunk of it's agency, can you give us your thoughts on portfolio of that agency product?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, it's about 60% jumbo, 40% agency or conventional conforming, and it's a better execution decision. So, when we look at the better economics between selling or portfolio-ing the mortgage, we'll generally choose the better economics. But we also prefer the annuity nature of the NII -- the lower servicing risk, and the better capital efficiency.

So, it has been the case, over the course of the last several quarters, that it has been the best execution to portfolio these mortgages. And actually, they are generating a nice return on equity.

OPERATOR: And you do have a follow-up question from John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD: One quick follow-up, Marianne: You've had some pretty big tax gains the last couple quarters, running below 30% of your tax rate. At some point, do you pull forward future benefits, and run with a higher tax rate in the future?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we have had pretty big tax gains over the course of the last -- most notably, obviously, last quarter, over the course of the last couple of years. Most of those related to the, call it, 2003 through 2008 tax periods, when we were going through the financial crisis. And so, some of the matters were more complex, and we took appropriate reserving decisions on that.

There are many less of those very complicated matters ahead of us, and so we wouldn't expect to see the same sort of size of tax benefits going forward as we've seen in the past. But we had some this quarter. So, we'll have a few. And generally speaking, they are, because of the nature of the reserving for tax, generally speaking, we take a conservative approach and the bias to the positive. But it could be much more plus or minus zero, at this point.

JOHN MCDONALD: So, what's your natural tax rate, if you don't have those? Is it around 30%? Or is it closer to --

MARIANNE LAKE: 30%.

JOHN MCDONALD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: You have another follow-up question from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi, Brian.

BRIAN FORAN: I was wondering if I could just sneak in on credit cards. Do you think the competitive environment has hit a plateau? And on co-brands, are there any large upcoming repricing events? And is there any bigger than a bread box size you can give on [Marriott]?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, do I think it's plateaued? I think it remains incredibly competitive in card generally, in particular in the co-brand space. So, plateaued at a very competitive level, I suppose.

But in terms of -- I'm not going to talk about any specific names, actually, Brian, in terms of the potential for repricing. It's an important part of our Business, and we're going to defend our Business.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question is a follow-up question from Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

MARIANNE LAKE: Hi, Gerard.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. Hi, Marianne. If the regulators lift the dividend pay-out ratio in this year's CCAR to 40%, would you guys consider lifting your dividend pay-out ratio something closer to that?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's a Board decision, and so, neither have we received that guidance from the regulators, nor have we done CCAR, and had that discussion yet with the Board. But we have generally said that the Board likes to have the flexibility to increase dividends over time, and we have had our dividend most recently at or close to that soft cap.

So, we would love that capacity, and I would imagine that, over time, it may be used. But again, it is a Board decision, not a management decision.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. And then just one last follow-up: On the G-SIB buffer, obviously you guys have done an incredible job in bringing it down to where it is today. When do you expect the regulators to put you into that bucket, assuming you guys are obviously looking at the same types of numbers?

MARIANNE LAKE: From -- we do everything pro forma. So, first of all, I would say the following. Right now, my understanding -- and if I'm wrong, forgive me -- is that it's your spot balance sheet two years prior that would drive your G-SIB two years forward. But the reality, if you ask my opinion, given that we're going to be reporting quarterly going forward, and because of the likelihood that G-SIB may or may not feature into CCAR, I think it's going to be less important, necessarily, what you are at any one moment in time, but where you are projecting to be or stay.

So, I suspect that we will get the benefit, potentially, of this, not today. We just closed our balance sheet. But I think that it's going to need to be a little bit more dynamic going forward, as it gets potentially introduced into stress test.

GERARD CASSIDY: Great. Thank you.

MARIANNE LAKE: But I don't know that.

OPERATOR: At this time, there are no further questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160115ec1e000xe
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,452 words
   PD
13 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's third quarter 2015 earnings call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1, the firm reported net income of $6.8 billion, EPS of $1.68 and a return on tangible common equity of 15% on $23.5 billion of revenue. If you exclude tax adjustments, legal expense and net reserve releases, our adjusted performance was $1.32 a share with a 12% return on tangible common equity. And we've only adjusted for these three items because other small items that might be considered non-core netted to zero.

Underlying results were somewhat mixed on the back of market conditions. The Consumer business had strong performance with loan growth across products driving overall firm-wide core loan growth of 15%. In the Corporate and Investment Bank, we saw outperformance in investment banking revenue and solid trading performance. Commercial banking revenue was down driven by lower IB revenues in a declining market. And Asset Management revenues reflected lower market levels, driving weaker client sentiment and transactional revenues.

There were two significant items this quarter. First, tax benefits of $2.2 billion, the size of which speaks of the complexity of tax matters during the financial crisis. We took appropriately prudent position in our tax reserves and now we've reached resolution on those matters. The majority of this is in Corporate with a portion in the CIB. The second item is firm-wide legal expense of $1 billion after tax relating to a range of matters but including the recently announced CDS settlement.

Also reflected in our results is a net reserve release of $281 million pretax. Which reflects a little less than $600 million of consumer reserve releases as favorable credit trends continue, offset by a build of a little over $300 million in Wholesale, approximately $160 million of which is additional reserves associated with the oil and gas sector given expectations that energy prices will remain lower for longer.

Skipping over page 2 and turning onto page 3 and our balance sheet. We continue to make progress against our capital targets and as expected, advanced and standardized fully phased in CET1 ratios are in line with each other at 11.4% this quarter. Also, we continue to expect the standardized ratio will be our floor from here and the improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation.

We also built Tier 1 and total capital, adding $1.2 billion of preferred stock and $1.5 billion of subordinated debt this quarter. We returned $2.7 billion of net capital to shareholders including $1 billion of net repurchases and dividends of $0.44 a share. Firm and Bank SLR were at 6.3% and 6.5% respectively with the increase driven almost equally by capital generation and a reduction in average assets.

While we're on the balance sheet, you can see on the call out from the page that on a spot basis our balance sheet is down $160 billion year-to-date and an incremental $32 billion this quarter as we reduced nonoperating deposits by over $150 billion exceeding our commitment. Total deposits are only down $90 billion, reflecting growth in more stable balances, particularly Consumer. Finally, with respect to GSIB, we estimate that today we are squarely in the 4% bucket given actions taken and final US rules as compared to 4.5% at the beginning of the year.

Now let's turn to page 4 and Consumer and Community Banking. The combined Consumer businesses generated $2.6 billion of net income and an ROE of 20%. Revenue of $10.9 billion was down 4% year on year, driven by mortgage on lower net servicing revenue. We remain on track to deliver expense reductions versus our $2 billion commitment and year-to-date expenses were down around $600 million reported and over $700 million adjusted for legal expense.

Our headcount is down 10,000 year-to-date and more than 40,000 since 2012. Underlying business drivers are strong and based on the 2015 FDIC deposit survey which just came out, we grew our deposits nearly 2 times the industry growth rate. Average loans are up 8% with core loans up 23%. Our customer base continues to expand. We added 900,000 households year-over-year and our active mobile base is up 21%.

Moving to page 5, Consumer and Business Banking. CBB generated strong results with net income of $954 million and an ROE of 32%. NII was down 1% quarter on quarter and 7% year on year driven by spread compression offset by continued growth in deposits. And non-interest revenue is growing solidly, up 5% quarter on quarter seasonally and 5% year on year on continued strong debit and investment revenue. Overall expenses were down 3% year on year on lower headcount from branch efficiency.

We continue to see robust performance across key drivers. Average deposits were up 9% and we grew deposits in all of our top 50 MSAs and gained share in nine of our top 10. Client assets were up 3% but down 4% quarter on quarter, broadly in line with the market and net new money was positive $3 billion for the quarter. Business Banking loan growth remained strong with average loan balances up 6% year on year and originations up 4% from a strong 2014.

Next Mortgage Banking on page 6. Overall net income was $602 million for the quarter. Originations of $30 billion were up 41% from the prior year and up slightly quarter on quarter as we benefited from a strong pipeline and continued improvement in the purchase market. We continue to add high quality loans to our balance sheet, totaling $19 billion this quarter.

Total revenue decreased sequentially, primarily driven by lower net servicing revenue on lower MSR risk management. We expect non-interest revenue to be down around $250 million year-over-year in the fourth quarter. Expenses of $1.1 billion were down 13% year on year despite higher volumes as we continued to manage down our costs.

On credit we released $575 million of reserves, including $200 million in the noncredit impaired portfolio and $375 million in the purchased credit impaired portfolio reflecting an improvement in both actual and expected delinquencies and a sustained improvement in home prices. Finally, our net charge-offs were $41 million and approximately $60 million normalized and this is a reasonable estimate for the near term.

Moving on to page 7, Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto. Overall net income of $1.1 billion with an ROE of 22% and revenue of $4.8 billion, was up 2% year on year on higher operating lease income in Auto as well Card revenue up slightly reflecting higher NII on volume, spread and lower interest reversals, offset by the impact of changes to some of our co-brand partnerships. On our partners we were thrilled to announce the renewal of two of our key partners, United Airlines and Southwest Airlines. We look forward to continued investment and growth in these important relationships.

And while we repriced to the current competitive market, our ROE target for the Card business in total remains unchanged. However, expect the revenue rate for the fourth quarter to be 11.75% plus or minus. Expense was $2.2 billion, up 8% year on year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing spend. On drivers, we continued to see strong year-over-year growth in volumes and transactions across our businesses.

In Card, core loan growth was 3%, sales growth was 6%. Commerce solutions volumes were up 11% driven by continued strong spend from existing clients but also from the addition of new merchants. Lastly, in Auto, results continued to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used car values. We saw average loan and lease balances up 9% and the pipeline is good. Finally, on Credit, the net charge-off rate for the quarter was 241 basis points and we expect net charge-offs of around 250 basis points over the medium term.

Turning to page 8 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $1.5 billion on revenue of $8.2 billion and an ROE of 13% adjusted for legal taxes and reserves. In Banking, it was a strong quarter with IB revenue of $1.5 billion, up 5% year on year. We continue to rank number one in global IBCs and ranked number one in North America and EMEA.

It was another outstanding quarter for Advisory, up 22%. We grew wallet share by 150 basis points year-over-year, maintaining our number two ranking. Equity underwriting fees were down 35%, generally in line with the market but from a particularly strong prior year. This quarter we ranked number one both in North America and EMEA.

Set Underwriting was up 17%, driven by higher non-investment grade fees, we maintained our number one ranking, gaining 30 basis points of share. However, expect DTMCs to be down year-over-year given the current pipeline. Treasury services revenue were flat quarter on quarter but down 4% year on year on lower deposit spreads with underlying transaction volumes remaining stable.

Moving on to Markets. Revenue of $4.3 billion was down 6% adjusted for business simplification. With mixed results in Fixed Income but another strong performance in Equities. Fixed income revenue was $2.9 billion, down 11% adjusted. In macro products we saw strong performance in currencies and emerging markets driven by higher activity on the back of market volatility in Asia and Brazil. Rates was down slightly given a particularly strong September of last year. And Commodities was down on low levels of client activity, again, compared to a strong prior year. It was a slow quarter in Credit with lower volumes as clients were on the sidelines given the challenging market conditions.

Equity markets had another strong quarter with revenues of $1.4 billion, up 9% year on year, driven by reasonably broad strength across products and regions with good performance in cash, but particular strength in Asia and derivatives. Security Services revenue was $915 million, versus guidance of $950 million. Given depressed market levels which impacted both revenues and as assets under custody with Emerging Markets, which is one of our more profitable segments, being hit particularly hard. If markets remain at these levels, fourth quarter revenues will also be lower than previous guidance. On Credit we saw a reserve build of $232 million, including $128 million for Oil & Gas.

Finally onto Expenses. Total expense was up 2% year on year at $6.1 billion. Compensation expense was down 13% with a comp-to-revenue ratio of 30% in the quarter. And non-compensation expense was up 14% driven by higher legal expense, partially offset as we realized the expense benefits of business simplification.

Moving on to Commercial Banking and page 9. Commercial Banking generated net income of $518 million on revenue of $1.6 billion and an ROE of 14%. Revenue was down 5% quarter on quarter driven by lower investment banking revenue as we saw fewer large transactions in the quarter. However, the pipeline for the fourth quarter is solid and we still expect record growth IB revenues this year, exceeding $2 billion.

Expenses of $719 million were in line with guidance. Loan balances were a record at $162 billion, up 13% year on year and 2% quarter on quarter. Driven by continued outperformance in Commercial Real Estate where quarter on quarter growth of 4% exceeded the industry across both multi-family and real estate banking.

C&I loans were flat, in line with the industry. Mature markets were relatively flat but we saw growth in our expansion markets, up 4% quarter on quarter. Credit performance with the portfolio remains strong with no net charge-offs and an $84 million increase in reserves included a modest build for Oil & Gas.

Overall, while results were mixed this quarter, the underlying fundamentals of the Commercial Bank remain strong. Pipelines are trending higher in C&I and remain robust in commercial real estate. Our expansion market loan balances are up 20% year on year. Calling activity is up substantially across line segments and we've added around 400 new middle market relationships this year.

Moving on to page 10 and Asset Management. Net income of $475 million with a 28% pretax margin and 20% ROE. Revenue of $2.9 billion was down 5% year on year, driven by lower markets which also drove lower transactional revenue as well as the sale of retirement planning services in 2014 which drove $70 million of the year-over-year decline. Looking forward to the fourth quarter, expect revenues to show normal seasonality from this low base assuming current market levels.

Expenses were relatively flat. And AUM of $1.7 trillion and client assets of $2.3 trillion held up well and were relatively flat year on year with negative markets and outflows driving a 4% sequential decline. We were not immune to the impact of interest rate uncertainty and equity markets and while we did experience overall modest net outflows, we had positive flows in our less market sensitive multi-asset class and alternative platforms.

In Banking we had record loan balances of $109 billion, up 7% year on year, driven by Mortgage which was up 19%. And lastly, we continue to report strong investment performance with 81% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.

Turning to page 11 and Corporate. Treasury and CIO results for the quarter were very close to home. The Corporate reported net income of $1.8 billion, driven by tax benefits. And finally, firm-wide NIM was up 7 basis points quarter on quarter given the mix shift away from cash and securities, towards higher loan balances and on an overall smaller balance sheet. Loans are the primary driver of nearly $250 million improvement in NII and given market implied NIM and NII should be relatively flat in the fourth quarter. Finally, our loan-to-deposit ratio improved 8 percentage points year-to-date to 64%.

Turning to page 12 and moving on to the fourth quarter outlook. Just a few items to call out. First, you'll see we updated our adjusted expense target to $56.5 billion, plus or minus for the full year, which is better than our previous guidance and would equate to the fourth quarter adjusted expense being relatively flat to the third. We're expecting core loan growth of 15% plus or minus to continue in the fourth quarter.

And finally, on Markets revenue. Starting with business simplification, which will drive a 2% decline year on year. In addition, we expect to see normal seasonal declines in the fourth quarter versus the third. And looking back over the last three years, that decline has been on average around 15%. And so far in October across asset classes, the markets are pretty quiet. Obviously we're only two weeks into the quarter and it's too early to give specific guidance, but based on those facts alone analyst estimates appear high.

Wrapping up, overall the Company performed quite well against a backdrop of interest rate uncertainty and volatile markets. We continue to invest in our businesses and our underlying drivers are growing strongly and we're gaining share and we have more than successfully delivered against each of our capital, balance sheet and expense targets.

Just before I finish, on one of those investments we're making, I want to update you on the progress we're making on our payment strategy. We continue to capitalize on our leadership position in payments, we have unparalleled assets in our issuing scale, we have the largest wholly owned merchant acquirer, our own close leaf network in ChaseNet and now a digital wallet in Chase Pay, which will be launched more broadly this year.

The beauty of this is that we're able to bundle all of these capabilities together to provide better pricing experiences for merchants, including access to data, as well as a better and more relevant experience for customers. We expect to process more than $50 billion of Chase card volumes over ChaseNet in 2016 and Gordon will share more details at Money 2020. With that, operator, please open up the line to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your first question will come from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks very much. So I'm curious, the capital markets related commentary, I get there could be a hangover effect into fourth quarter and I'm guessing that's the primary driver behind your analyst estimates appear high on fourth quarter. But could we talk about what you're actually seeing in terms of where the financing markets are maybe drawing the line? Meaning, are the deals that underwriting you expect to fall off in the fourth quarter based on your pipeline, is that a function of timing that you think could come back next year? Are these marginal deals where markets are drawing the line? I'm trying to get at --

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

GLENN SCHORR: The ultimate question of is this the first time that FICC could actually grow in 2016 just because of the beat down it took in the back half of this year?

MARIANNE LAKE: There are a couple of different questions in there and maybe I'll try and separate them. My comments about the seasonality in the fourth quarter were most particularly towards Markets revenues and less so towards the IB revenue space. With IB revenues, it's a mixed story. Talking now about the sort of Banking revenues rather than Markets revenues. So the pipeline for M&A remains very constructive and really pretty good, so we're expecting to continue to have strength in M&A in the fourth quarter.

With ECM you saw obviously a pretty sharp falloff in activity in the third quarter. We have seen the pipeline in ECM to the degree that that shows you visibility into the fourth quarter which is somewhat limited. We have seen that build up and so there is possibility that we'll be able to pull through some of that into the fourth quarter. But that will depend upon how the markets behave.

With respect to DCM, our sort of guidance there was a commentary really mainly to the strength of the fourth quarter last year and on relative basis, the pipeline is down. And it's really to do with normal refinances are slowing and the maturity wall is smaller but it's still healthy. It's just not going to be at the same levels that we saw last year.

GLENN SCHORR: Maybe just a follow-up in FICC in general, I know none of us have a crystal ball. The slowdown in activity that we see, some of it's clients sitting on hands. Maybe you could separate that between any providing of liquidity [and marks] along the way. Because we did see a really wide credit spread widening in the quarter.

MARIANNE LAKE: Look, the situation for us in markets was one where there was volatility, regardless of you how you want to characterize it, and people were acting -- our clients were acting on the back of that. We were able to capitalize on that flow. We were able to intermediate for our clients, put our capital [at risk and make] some money. We did pretty well where there was volatility. Where there wasn't, it was more about, to your point, more about low levels of activity, people on the sidelines. It was tougher to make money because less was happening rather than anything else more significant than that. So far in the fourth quarter we're two weeks in, it's too early to say, but there's not been a tremendous change in the landscape.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks. Marianne, can you talk a little bit more about the Card business and try to help us understand the Card revenue pressure that we saw this quarter into the fourth? How much of that is the NII side of things and how much of that is the partner repricing? And how far past the fourth quarter do those resets continue before growth can overcome it?

MARIANNE LAKE: Looking at the revenue rate, the guidance, remember our guidance previously had been you should expect our revenue rate to be at the low end of the 12% to 12.5% range. The most important thing we want you to take away from talking about our co-brand partners is that we feel great about having signed up United Airlines and Southwest Airlines and partnering with them again for the medium term.

And the economics of those deals on a standalone basis are still really very good. But the co-brand space is very competitive and when any of those contracts are going to be renegotiated at this point, they're going to be renegotiated to competitive levels. And so, it's really the fact that we're seeing that is going to come through in our revenue rate in the fourth quarter which is going to push it down to below 12%. It doesn't change the fact that the ROE target for the business is still 20% and that the economics of those partnerships are still good. Remember, these --

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Just given the numbers, it's $200 million a quarter for four quarters until it lapse.

KEN USDIN: Got it. Okay. Second question, just on -- in this tough revenue environment, first of all, can you give us a quick update on the progress on the expense plans? And then, any -- does anything change given how tough this revenue environment has changed as far as either accelerating or digging in again? I know your prior comments have focused on obviously always needing to invest. But in terms just of your focus as you think about next year and building the expense budget against the environment that we're seeing.

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say, first of all, we gave some expense goals in Investor Day for both Consumer Businesses as well as for the CIB. And those were I think pretty sizable goals, $2 billion in 2017 versus 2014 for the Consumer Businesses and $2.8 billion in 2017 versus 2014 for the CIB. And we are working through that. We are on track in both of them. I think I said earlier that adjusted, the Consumer Businesses in the three quarters so far are $700 million down year-over-year in expenses. So against the $2 billion target, we're certainly getting there.

And on the CIB, we expected 2015 to be mainly about forcing out those business simplification expenses and we've essentially done that too. So we're on track. We're pushing hard. We still have work to do. We are always going to be diligent on our expenses and generally speaking at Investor Day we also said we're going to be on or down which is actually pushing hard to keep them down but not at the expense of good investments in the business. So obviously we are going to respond appropriately to the revenue pressure but not overreact.

JAMIE DIMON: I've spoken my whole life about good expenses and bad expenses. Bad expenses are waste, things you don't need. You don't have [to trade through] processing, things like that. We want certain expenses to go up. When we find marketing opportunities in Card, we're going to spend it. If the Investment Bank does better, the comp accrual is going to go up. That's how we run the Company. That's not ever going to change.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. Just a follow-up to that last question. So of the total $4.8 billion of expense savings, how much have you achieved? And if you're on track, why did the adjusted overhead ratio go backwards? It's 60% in the third quarter versus 58% in the second and 59% last year.

MARIANNE LAKE: So Mike, thanks for that. So $700 million, if you adjust for legal expense in the Consumer Businesses year-to-date, we'll do some more in the fourth quarter. And year-to-date on business simplification, which I think for in total was about $1.5 billion, we've done $1.3 billion. In total, that's $2 billion so far. Obviously more work to do in 2016. With respect to the adjusted overhead ratio, it speaks a bit more to seasonality of revenues than anything else.

MIKE MAYO: All right. And one follow-up. Clearly it's due to revenues. So the question Jamie, if you could answer this, a simple yes or no question. Is the economy getting stronger or weaker? And the reason I ask that, the jobs report from a couple weeks ago seems to imply the economy's getting softer. Yet, your loan growth actually -- your core loan growth accelerated and you're guiding for faster loan growth in the fourth quarter. So is there noise in that loan growth figure or is the economy, based on what you're seeing, getting stronger and the jobs number is misleading?

MARIANNE LAKE: I'll start. Jamie, you can yes or no at the end. Mike, we would say that the US economy is doing pretty well there. We're seeing good demand for loans in the Consumer space and reasonably good sentiment in the Business Banking space and our core loan growth numbers do show that. There's nothing particularly funky in the loan growth numbers. We do our very best to show them in the right light.

I would take a slightly different perspective on the jobs report on the non-farm payrolls. And not to sort of over think it, but while I know it was somewhat lower than people were expecting or possibly hoping for, it's still at around 140,000, almost two times what would be required to have stable unemployment. So it's only one report too. You can't overreact to it. It's not that we're seeing anything that's causing us any concern and our outlook for the fourth quarter is pretty solid I think. Jamie, anything?

JAMIE DIMON: Nothing to add.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, Marianne. You saw some very good improvement in the GSIB surcharge from the 4.5% to 4%, probably came a little faster than some of us expected. Do you have good momentum there to do more there and how are you thinking about the tradeoff, the cost benefit tradeoff, of pushing further down on that GSIB bucket?

MARIANNE LAKE: We did better than we had targeted on our non-op deposits. We worked very, very hard but we told you we would on derivative notionals, compressionals, so our level 3 assets. It is absolutely the case, not to diminish the amount of work we've done and the progress we've made, that we obviously went after the most impactful -- least impactful to the client franchise, most impactful to the ratio with a less revenue [give-up] first. We made great progress. It becomes increasingly, not exponentially, but increasingly more difficult for every net basis point.

That's not to say, by the way, that we aren't continuing to work very hard at it and optimize and that we won't push further. But we're not at a place right now where we're going to target anything structurally below this, except for over the longer term just continuing to work through it. And our overall capital target, we're at 11.4% now. Our overall capital target still in the short to medium term is still 12%.

JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you.

JAMIE DIMON: I just want to add, in the new world we have to obviously monitor and push down to all the business levels, GSIB, CCAR, Basel, LCR and SLR, and we want to optimize all of them. So we're only living with this for a couple years now. As we embed it in our systems, we'll have a better way to track it and monitor it. Over time, I would expect the GSIB will come down a little bit. It only comes down in lumps. You got to make a big difference to go from 4% to 3.5% but imagine over time, I'm talking about years. I'm not talking about anything you'd see this quarter. We are very comfortable where we are today. Over years, you might have to change some of your business strategies but I think it's a better thing not to be an outlier in GSIB.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks. So just a question on the capital, getting to 4% now with a goal over time to get to something lower, 3.5%, 3%. Does it also give you more room for capital return requests next year, Jamie?

JAMIE DIMON: It has nothing to do with next year, Betsy. When I say over time, it just happens that JPMorgan built a global corporate investment bank. 70% of it is financial institutions, 30% corporate. We easily could have been built the other way around, we focused on it over time. When I say over time, it might be quite easy for us to say that over five to six years let's focus more on corporates and less on financials and that will affect your GSIB fairly substantially. That's what I'm talking about. It has nothing to do with CCAR for next year or anything like that.

MARIANNE LAKE: A couple of really small points on CCAR for next year for what it's worth is we were constrained in CCAR by leverage. We have issued $6 billion of preferreds in the year. We are reacting to try and make sure that we are managing our binding constraints or our most binding constraints. So we're working on that.

The other thing to note is that we're at 11.4% as we sit here now. So we're not gliding a long way from where we need to get to. Both of those things together, with obviously our profitability, should mean that we have incremental opportunity. But our range is 55% to 75% and we hope to be in that range.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just on TLAC, I know we're still waiting for the Fed decision but we did get FSA recently. Anything in there that you can respond to as to how you're prepared for TLAC?

MARIANNE LAKE: So just a couple of things. First of all, I think the [FSB] thing was a sort of leak. So it's as good as it is. I will tell you that the news on structured notes was not strongly positive but we hadn't banked on it being. So not entirely pleasing but not disappointing relative to our models and expectations.

Other things to pay attention to anyway are there's no change to the internal TLAC assumptions. The clean holding Company rule is one that we're watching out for. But fundamentally -- and then there was the timing. Is there going to be a substantially elongated transition period? I would call it all fairly marginal. It hasn't changed the overall picture for us. We're at around 16% and we'll figure out the FSB proposal that's leaked out wasn't shockingly different and we'll see how the Fed responds.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good afternoon. Just maybe a question on NII and NIM. I think Marianne you said it would be relatively flat in the fourth quarter yet you're still expecting some pretty strong loan growth. Just wondering if you could maybe discuss why you think it would remain flat in that scenario? And maybe a bit longer term in an environment where we're looking at lower for longer potentially in the rates, how do we think about the NIM a little bit over the intermediate term?

MARIANNE LAKE: So with respect to the fourth quarter, we are expecting our loans to grow and overall net-net [rotation out], cash and securities to loans would be supportive of NII. But remember, the biggest boost to our NIM was associated -- or was a big boost to our NIM was associated with changing the mix, reducing our overall cash balances. So, a few things going on.

The outlook for the fourth quarter being relatively flat was associated with market implied rates which are relatively flat. And so in the law of big numbers, that plus or minus a few basis points is what we're expecting. With respect to looking out to 2016, obviously we don't know what's going to happen with the rate curve. If rates stay very flat we should still have upward pressure on our NII associated with the change in mix of our balance sheet.

So the fact that we've got a smaller interest earning asset base and more loans and less cash and less securities should be supportive even on flat rates. We don't know when rates will rise but if market [implies] are followed or if the Fed [dots] or anything like realistic, then that will be even more constructive. Remember in the first year, we get the biggest benefit from short end rates and the first 50 basis points of them.

JIM MITCHELL: Right, I was hoping you would know when rates go up. Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: No, unfortunately not.

JIM MITCHELL: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good afternoon. My question is on the Credit outlook. The consumer reserve release has continued to offset the wholesale reserve build and I'm just wondering, how should we think about how much is left on the Consumer side over the next several quarters, especially given the 23% loan growth that we saw this quarter and your note saying that this momentum should continue?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say that first of all, with respect to purchased credit impaired, with this release we did on the $375 million, that's our baseline expectation for that portfolio. Our baseline expectation is no material incremental reserves. Obviously if things improve and they're sustained, then there may be more reserve releases. But I wouldn't try and model those.

With respect to the noncredit impaired portfolio we talked about, you've seen our charge-offs at normalized 14 basis points. Our portfolio quality is really getting quite high. We're cycling through most of the significant risks. Reserve releases will be more modest and a little bit more periodic and several hundred million dollars next year, maybe $300 million plus or minus but not significantly more than that.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: And just my follow-up question, following on Ken and Mike's question on expenses, maybe I'll ask it another way. Over the past two quarters your adjusted overhead ratio was 58% to 60%. You noted that you think that net interest income could grow next year even if rates stay low. Could you potentially slide below the 58% to 60% band that you reported over the past two quarters relative to -- you mentioned an efficiency target of 55% if rates actually normalize?

MARIANNE LAKE: Look, our efficiency target at 55% was over three years or so and we still will be driving to get to around that level. But it does, as you quite rightly mention, include not just rates rising but a fair degree of normalization in rates. We'll see what happens in 2016. Obviously it's possible but we're not going to call an outlook on rates next year.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my call. First of all, Marianne, if I could in terms of some of the credit numbers that you mentioned in terms of the Oil & Gas provisions? They seemed pretty modest in the scheme of your more than $20 billion of exposure to that industry. How are you thinking about the redetermination process that started this quarter and how would you guide us in terms of thinking about what the provisions could be in the fourth quarter following the redetermination this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So we've taken some large reserves in the last few quarters and our overall reserve number obviously is consistent with our expectations based upon the outlook for oil prices. There was a redetermination cycle that we reserved for in the first quarter and so there will be another one in the fall. We've been as forward leaning on that as we can be. Obviously I'm not saying that there may not be any net incremental reserve build but we're not expecting them to be significant. A lot of companies have tried to adjust their expense bases and otherwise help their position. So if energy prices stay around these levels and recover slowly, we're expecting, net, not to have material incremental reserves in the next quarter. We may see some.

MATT BURNELL: Okay. And then in terms of Mortgage Banking, you noted that production -- the production amount was actually up quite nicely year-over-year but the revenues in terms of production and also in servicing were a bit weaker, certainly on a quarter-over-quarter basis. But the expenses were relatively stable on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Is there something going on there that we might see further improvement in the expense base on the Mortgage side of the business in the fourth quarter? Or are we sort of -- are you at where you need to be in terms of the $1 billion to $1.1 billion a quarter in that business?

MARIANNE LAKE: Let me deal first of all with production quarter-over-quarter revenues. Margins are down. Margins are down for two principal reasons. Remember, quarter-over-quarter, at least on a closed loan volume, we were at a consistent level. Margins are down because we moved a mix shift towards correspondent from retail towards purchase from re-fi as well as capacity in the industry, more capacity in the industry and therefore less constraints. So the production quarter-over-quarter revenue is more of a margin number than anything.

With respect to year-over-year, I do want to make this clear. With respect to the guidance year-over-year that we should expect non-interest revenue for the mortgage Company in totality to be down $250 million. That brings our total year-over-year NIR down around $1 billion, maybe a little more, which is what we guided to at Investor Day. And it's more off the back of lower repurchase reserve releases, lower gains on Ginnie Mae sales and [XI] gains, non fee-based revenues that are to do with our third party UPB as well as run off in the UPB. So it's consistent with our guidance. It wasn't fully reflected in everyone's models.

I think there was a third part to your question but I have to say I've -- oh, expenses, yes. Thank you. On expenses -- we continue to work very hard on our expense equation, both in terms of managing down the -- particularly in the servicing space by the way, managing down the default inventory in a number of different ways but also investing in our operating model. So in technology, to improve the production operations cycle process, also in our site strategy. So no, we are not done. We continue to work very hard at it. We have made great progress but we continue to work hard at it.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: We've seen some assets change hands and you guys have been mentioned as a buyer for some of the other assets that are out there. Just wondering on what the ability and appetite is out there to buy loans.

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously, we're not going to comment on anything specific. We would be willing to take and we do take a look at things when they come up and if we are able to price for the risk and it's in a client segment or an entry we like we might be interested. But there's no -- we have no special comments on it. What we're really interested in is growing our underlying core loans with our customers that we can continue to do business with.

MATT O'CONNOR: Just separately, following up on energy, how exactly do you re-evaluate the portfolio? Is it as the defaults happen, that's where there's a big boost to reserves or you get in front of that?

MARIANNE LAKE: Not as defaults happen. It's to do -- depends on whether it's reserve based lending or whether it's not. But as companies are either downgraded or as they are experiencing financial -- change in financial condition or the borrowing base is redetermined, we will act accordingly. We try to be as forward-leaning on that as is possible. We don't have perfect insight until some of that information becomes clear. That's the process.

JAMIE DIMON: And the reserve base lending, you basically take essentially current prices, you discount at a discount rate, you assume expenses, you [active real engineer] your force and things like that, and you see if you can make rollover the loan at a sound -- I'm going to call it 65% LTV and we think it's pretty good. That's what we're here for is to lend to clients particularly in tough times. You can't be a bank that every time something goes wrong you run away from your client.

We also do things like stress test down to $30 oil, maintain $30 for 18 months and say, how much more reserve do you have to put up? I think I said somewhere, you can correct this number, Marianne, we're not in the same room, that if that happened, we think we're going to have to put up another $500 million or $750 million in reserves. Which is just not something we worry a lot about.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Good evening.

MARIANNE LAKE: Good evening.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Marianne, I appreciate your commentary on the preferred issuance that you guys have done so far throughout the year. Looks like you're now above the 150 basis point target. You alluded to that being a function of efforts to manage to your binding constraint under CCAR. Just wanted to get a sense as to what -- how you guys are thinking about issuance plans going forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: So it's obviously a really great question. Unfortunately we really don't guide to our forward-looking issuance. You're right, we are above 150 basis points right now and we're also working on our leverage balance sheet. So we're working the dials exactly what you would expect us to, but we're not going to make any comments about forward issuance.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Understood. Had to give it a shot.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yep, I got it.

STEVEN CHUBAK: So just moving over to the Investment Banking side and maybe trying to dig a little bit deeper into some of the guidance you've given on M&A. Looks like the backlogs and expected completions for the fourth quarter are quite healthy but at the same time, post the August volatility, some of the historically strong M&A indicators like market cap, CEO confidence, those measures appear to be deteriorating. I just wanted to get a sense as to how you're thinking about the M&A outlook beyond the fourth quarter, just given some of the weakness that we've seen in some of those measures.

MARIANNE LAKE: The pipeline for 2016 is building up, so we don't have perfect visibility yet. We think obviously the deals that were being done in 2015 were skewed toward larger deals and we think there may be more flow in 2016 but it looks pretty healthy to us so far, but it's building up.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good afternoon. Marianne, can you share with us -- you mentioned that you've built out 400 new relationships in the middle market area of the Commercial bank. But when we look at the loans outstanding, they're essentially flat on a year-over-year basis whereas the Corporate Client business has grown very rapidly. Can you give us some more color behind what's driving those numbers?

MARIANNE LAKE: I think over the last several quarters, forgive me if I'm slightly wrong but I don't think I'm entirely wrong, our sort of C&I growth has been broadly in line with the industry. Remember that over the course of 2013 and 2014, we did a lot of work on simplifying our businesses and that had an impact on the pace of our loan growth. But our mature markets are performing well. We're seeing growth in our expansion markets. We're adding new clients. We're culling our prospects. So everything is set to continue to see growth more going forward than we have in the past.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay. And then you talked about the reserve build in the CIB, about $128 million was for Oil & Gas and the total number was $232 million. What was the other areas that required reserve building this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: There was about -- in CIB, there was about $47 million of metals and mining, about net-net $20 million of BAU growth and then just a few other normal BAU puts and takes, downgrades, upgrades. Other than those three things there was no one specific call out.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Chris Kotowski from Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Mine were asked and answered. Thank you.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thanks, Chris.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes. On the Mortgage Banking side, I noticed that your jumbo loans -- not your jumbo loans -- that your residential loans on your balance sheet's grown. Are they mostly jumbos and are they coming out of your normal production, that $29 billion and you're selling less to the government? Can you add some color around those numbers?

MARIANNE LAKE: Of the $19 billion that we put on our balance sheet, around $10 billion, just a little over $10 billion was jumbo. The rest was conventional conforming.

PAUL MILLER: And are they mainly ARM loans or are they fixed rate loans?

MARIANNE LAKE: We'll have to get you the split.

JAMIE DIMON: I think the jumbo's like a third ARM. Counting the conforming, I think it's all fixed. That's what I remember.

MARIANNE LAKE: We'll confirm for you.

OPERATOR: Your next question is from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks very much. Marianne, if I can just follow up on some of the consumer credit quality metrics. At the Investor Day and subsequently Gordon was indicating unsurprisingly just given the very low levels that the expectation should probably be for some moderate rate of deterioration. And yet, we haven't seen it and I'm guessing that's partly because of the underwriting that's occurred over the past few years. My question is, what are the circumstances in which we should expect more significant deterioration there? Is it only macro or is there something else competitively that could influence that at this stage?

MARIANNE LAKE: You are right that at these kind of 2.5%, 250 basis point levels in Card, it does speak to the quality of the loans we're originating and the engagement with the customers. Which is much more now about driving, yes, some NII but really, really good spend and therefore lower credit quality. It's an integrated equation. We're expecting, given our originations and the runoff portfolio, the work loans running off in the portfolio that we're building is really very, very clean.

We're expecting that those charge-off rates to be low for the short to medium term, to read out for the next year for sure. And there will be a combination of things that would drive that. But largely it would be environmental. We don't expect at this point, we have made changes to our credit box but they aren't material changes and we'll continue to test our appetite to want to do that and that may have an impact. But we're originating the vast majority of our cards in the super prime sector.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And are the dynamics similar in Auto as well?

MARIANNE LAKE: Similar, yes. Compared to the industry, our originations are skewed to the prime space.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thank you very much.

MARIANNE LAKE: And our LTVs are lower and our durations are in line or lower.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Yes, hi. Just a quick one at this point. Equities, Marianne, you highlighted strength in Asia which I think probably was better than maybe some had expected given some of the volatility. So could you give some color on the trends you saw in that region in your Equities business?

MARIANNE LAKE: The biggest comment I would make is that there was a lot of volatility, particularly in China, in the second part of or the last part of the second quarter. We were -- we did pretty well. We helped our clients. We didn't have significant open risk positions. We weren't very directional. We were able to do well in that situation. Also in the reversal, also on currency moves. It really is a comment I made about we're here to serve our clients, they were transacting, we were able to do risk intermediation in today for them and so we made money on both ends.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Thanks for that.

OPERATOR: You have another question from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. Hi, Marianne. Quick question on your Consumer business. You guys have shown very strong steady growth in the mobile users. I think it's over $22 million in this quarter. That's up from $18 million a year ago. Can you share with us what percentage of your customers are actually mobile users and how does that compare to a year ago? And what does Gordon think? What's the penetration rate that you think you can finally get to there?

MARIANNE LAKE: Let me just talk qualitatively for a second and we'll get you some numbers. But we're focused on mobile and digital primarily because it's going to be great for the customer experience, it's what our customers want. And also because it's a significant enabler for reducing cost to serve and improving efficiency. So we've been very focused on whether it's quick deposit, whether it's quick pay, whether it's our mobile wallet, whether it's our mobile app and we've been seeing great results. I'm off the top of my head not going to be able to tell you the penetration rates but we can get back to you.

GERARD CASSIDY: Is there any evidence that you guys can point to where you're actually taking market share from other banks because your mobile products are just more superior than some of the smaller regional banks and community banks?

MARIANNE LAKE: I can tell you that we are growing our deposits nearly twice the industry. That we know. I think that's a reasonable indication for a bunch of different reasons and that we have a very highly rated app. I think the most highly rated bank app but we'll check that too.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay. And then finally, your asset yields jumped this quarter which was good to see of course. Can you share with us how the Fed funds rate went up as much as it did sequentially? And also your securities yield went up in the quarter sequentially, can you give us some color behind both those numbers? Thank you.

MARIANNE LAKE: On the Fed funds and reverse repos, we had moved toward higher yielding, for example, emerging markets assets there. So we got some high yield there. We saw some yield on our trading book moving out of emerging markets. Just a bit of puts and takes. On securities, was it significant? I'm sorry, I'll come back to you. Operator, any more?

OPERATOR: There are no further questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151014ebad0038q
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,069 words
   PD
14 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's second-quarter earnings call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.

   TD
At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon, and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you and good morning, everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation. It's available on our website and please, if you could, refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

So starting off on page 1, firm different delivered strong performance this quarter: net income of $6.3 billion, EPS of $1.54, and a return on tangible common equity of 14% on revenue of $24.5 billion. The quarter's performance was characterized by strong underlying fundamentals across each of our businesses. With stable NIM and NII, good growth in fee drivers as well as strong IBCs, good expense discipline with adjusted expenses flat quarter on quarter at $14.2 billion, and an adjusted overhead ratio of 58%, and low levels of charge-offs and call loans up 12% year on year.

We also made significant progress on our balance sheet and we've delivered on our non-operating deposit commitment.

While there were no significant items this quarter, there were some small items that are worth calling out. On the positive side, we had consumer loan loss reserves releases of a little over $300 million as well as a little under $300 million of a benefit in DDA/SEA and wider spreads. Against that we saw reserve builds across wholesale of $250 million, of which approximately $140 million related to oil and gas, as well as firm-wide legal expense of a little less than $300 million. If you take those for items and net them, together they contributed zero to net income.

So finally included in the result is $330 million of a benefit from tax discrete items. If you adjust for all of those, our net income is strong at $6 billion.

Skipping over page 2 and on to page 3, we continued to make progress against our capital targets with the firm's advanced fully phased-in CET1 ratio reaching 11%, up 35 basis points quarter on quarter, and standardized fully phased-in was 11.2%. The improvement to both ratios was driven by net capital generation along with an overall reduction to risk-weighted assets, primarily from lower risk across market and counterparty credit as well as some data enhancements with loan growth offsetting runoff.

We continue to build Tier 1 capital, adding $3.4 billion of preferred stock this quarter, and we returned $2.6 billion of net capital to shareholders, including $1 billion of net repurchases and dividends of $0.44 a share. Preferred issuance, together with a reduction in average assets, drove the firms SLR to reach 6%.

For more details on our balance sheet reduction, turn to page 4.

The last quarter I told you that you should expect us to make meaningful progress on our balance sheet in this quarter and we did just that. Year-to-date our balance sheet is down over $120 billion on a spot basis, driven by a reduction of over $100 billion of non-operating deposits across our wholesale businesses, partially offset by continued growth in consumer deposits. We also saw a $36 billion reduction in trading assets and secured financing as we continue to make progress simplifying our balance sheet.

On the previous page you may have seen that HQLA was down $82 billion this quarter, primarily reflecting those lower levels of cash. However, the firm remains LCR compliant given the significant outflow assumptions that was associated with those deposits.

In addition, the reduction in deposits together with strong core loan growth resulted in an improved loan-to-deposit ratio, up 5% since year-end. These balance sheets actions translate into relatively flat NIM, up 2 basis points quarter on quarter and NII. Quarter on quarter, the reduction in cash drove a 4 basis point improvement that was partially offset by lower yields, and as I said, firm NII was flat.

Turning to page 5 and consumer and community banking, the performance for the combined consumer businesses was characterized by sequential revenue growth on stronger fee revenue and positive operating leverage, generating $2.5 billion of net income, an ROE of 19%, and an overhead ratio of 56%. Revenue of $11 billion was down 4% year on year, driven by mortgage, but up 3% quarter on quarter on seasonally higher credit and debit sales volume as well as higher MSR revenue.

Our focus on customer experience continues to drive growth broadly and we have 19% core loan growth driven by mortgage. Also, our active mobile customer base is up 22% to over 21 million customers. We are the largest and fastest-growing among major US banks, reflecting our strategic objective to have a best-in-class mobile offering.

We remain focused on our commitment to reduce expenses by $2 billion in 2017 relative to 2014, while continuing to self-fund investment in the business. In the first half of this year expenses were down approximately $0.5 billion versus the same period last year and our headcount down roughly 6,000 year to date.

Moving to consumer and business banking on page 6, CBB generated net income of $831 million, flat quarter on quarter and down 8% year on year with an ROE of 28%. Net interest income was flat sequentially with modest spread compression offset by deposit growth and NIR was up 7% seasonally and 2% year on year on continued strong client investment and debit revenue.

Expenses were up 1% year on year, largely due to increased legal costs. Excluding these, expenses were down 2% due to continued improvements in branch efficiency. We continue to see robust performance across our drivers with attrition well below industry averages, average deposit balances up 9%, or $41 billion year on year, and we are pleased to see that 30% of this growth is driven by our investments in business banking and CPC and new builds.

Client investment assets were a record, up 8% or $16 billion, and in business banking average loan balances were up 6% with loan originations flat against a record last year and in a highly competitive environment.

Stepping back and looking forward to the second half, our NII is stable and will increase when rates rise. Non-interest revenue is growing solidly and expenses will decrease, so we expect positive operating leverage.

Mortgage banking on page 7. Mortgage net income was $584 million for the quarter. Originations were $29 billion, up 19% quarter on quarter on seasonal increases in the purchase market. We continued to execute our strategy of adding high-quality loans to our balance sheet, totaling $19 billion this quarter and the origination pipeline continues to look strong.

Total revenue increased sequentially, primarily driven by higher MSR revenue, but as you can see, you look at our non-interest revenue it's down $500 million year on year. We still expect non-interest revenue to be down about $1 billion for the full year in line with previous guidance.

Expenses of $1.1 billion were down $200 million, or 15%, year on year and down 9% quarter on quarter despite higher volumes as we continued to manage down our costs. On credit we continued to see improvements in home prices and delinquencies, and as a result we released $300 million of NCI reserves this quarter. And you can see our charge-off rate was 21 basis points.

Moving on to page 8, card commerce solutions and auto. Overall net income of $1.1 billion, up 30% year on year, and an ROE of 23%. Revenue of $4.7 billion was up 3% year on year on card sales volume and auto loan and lease growth, partially offset by spread compression. Card revenue rate for the quarter at 12.4% was up quarter on quarter seasonally.

Expense was down 4% year on year driven by lower legal expense with the recent settlement regarding debt sale and collection practices having previously been reserved. And in card we saw core loan growth of 3% and sales growth of 7%, with delinquency rates and charge-offs remaining low.

Commerce solutions continued to experience strong growth with volumes up 12% year on year, driven by continued strong spend and the addition of new merchants. We've recently signed several new strategic clients including Chevron, Cinemark, Gap Inc., Marriott, and Rite Aid. Together they represent an incremental 5% to our volume and the majority have signed up for ChaseNet.

Lastly in auto, results continue to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used-car values. We saw average loan and lease balances up 8% year on year and the pipeline is healthy.

Moving to page 9 and the corporate and investment bank. Before I dig into the numbers, we did make some reporting changes this quarter. If you look at the top of the table, investment banking fees is now named investment banking revenue and principally this now incorporates the revenue share with the commercial bank here in this line, rather than in the market revenues where it was previously being reported.

Additionally, trade finance revenue, which was previously reported in treasury services, is now being reported in lending.

So digging into the numbers, CIB reported net income of $2.3 billion on revenue of $8.7 billion and an ROE of 14%, reflecting a strong result in a mixed environment. In banking, IB revenue of $1.7 billion is up 4% year on year. This quarter we continued to rank number one in global IB fees with 8.2% wallet share and widening the gap to number two. We ranked number one in fees in North America and EMEA and gained share, improving to number two, in Asia.

Another strong quarter for advisory, up 17% year on year as activity levels remained high. We maintained our number-two ranking and grew share by over by over 100 basis points from last quarter. Equity underwriting fees were down 5% from a strong prior year for IPOs in EMEA with lower wallet share as we gave back some of the outsized share gain we had in the first quarter. This quarter we ranked number two globally with strong performance in the US on acquisition finance and follow-ons.

Debt underwriting up 1% and we maintained our number-one ranking with strength in high grade also on the back of the healthy M&A market. Treasury services was down 2% year on year on lower net interest income and the lending item of $302 million was down 32% year on year, primarily driven by losses on restructured securities. Given the reporting changes we've made, going forward we should expect for treasury services revenues would be about $875 million, plus or minus, per quarter and lending approximately $350 million. And that is given the trade finance transfer.

Moving on to markets, revenue of $4.5 billion was down 1% year on year, excluding business simplification and the gain in the prior year on the IPO of Markit, which we previously disclosed, but with strong relative performance in rates and in equity markets. Fixed income revenue was $2.9 billion, down 10% year on year similarly adjusted.

In macro products the quarter was dominated by EMEA with a bond selloff and economic and political uncertainty, including Greece. This uncertainty slowed the momentum we saw in the first quarter and kept clients on the sidelines in currencies and emerging markets, but drove strong performance in rates.

Credit and securitized products were down on a continuation of general weakness in the market. And as I mentioned, equity markets had another strong quarter, up 27% year on year on revenue of $1.6 billion with strong performance in all three regions relative to last year and outperformance in Asia, particularly China and Hong Kong, on the back of client interest, first to participate in the rally and later to hedge.

Looking forward, business simplification would drive a 9% decline year on year in third-quarter markets revenues with a corresponding decline in expenses. And as I look into the third quarter in analyst models, I see relative to our markets results this quarter you have revenues in markets going up sequentially. We are fully expecting to see normal seasonal declines in the third-quarter markets revenues.

Security service revenues of $1 billion was in line with guidance, up seasonally on the European dividend season. And moving on to expense, total expense was down 15% year on year at $5.1 billion and an overhead ratio of 59% as we successfully executed the expense reduction associated with business simplification and with lower legal expense. Compensation expense down 4% year on year comped a revenue ratio for the second quarter of 30%, flat year on year.

Moving on to the commercial bank. In commercial banking the underlying businesses continued to perform well with strong loan growth, up $6 billion dollars quarter on quarter and record end-of-period loan balances, with good credit fundamentals and no non-performing loans. We also saw continued momentum in IB revenue off of a record last quarter, which was driven by a large transaction. However, we added $187 million to reserves in the quarter, reflecting select downgrades including oil and gas. Despite this, BAU credit performance at the portfolio, as I said, remains very strong.

This drove net income of $525 million on revenue of $1.7 billion and an ROE of 14%. Revenue was flat year on year, driven by continued spread compression in loans and deposits partially offset by growth in loans, and flat sequentially despite the record investment banking performance in the first quarter. Expenses were up 4% year on year on increased control-related staffing and down slightly quarter on quarter. For the rest of the year for each quarter we expect expenses to remain around $720 million.

Loan balances increased 12% year on year and 4% quarter on quarter. C&I loans grew 3% sequentially, in line with the industry, with middle-market growth being somewhat challenged by strong competition but with more strength in corporate client banking driven by short-term financing activity and new facilities for our existing client base. CRE loans grew 5% and continued to exceed the industry on strong activity in both commercial term lending, which had record originations in the quarter, and in real estate banking.

Moving on to page 11 and asset management. Net income of $451 million on revenue of $3.2 billion reflected solid growth, up 6% year on year and 6% quarter on quarter, driven by continued net long-term inflows marking the 25th consecutive quarter at $13 billion with strength in North America and multi-asset flows; driving record AUMs of $1.8 trillion, up 4% year on year, and client assets of $2.4 trillion. In addition, we had record loan balances which were up 9% year on year.

Expense of $2.4 billion was up 17% year on year, primarily driven by legal expense and to a lesser extent the impact of moving assets to held-for-sale. Adjusting for those two items, expense would have been up more in line with revenue and margins in line with our targets. Lastly, we reported strong investment performance with 78% of mutual fund AUM ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.

Turning to page 12 and corporate, treasury and CIO reported a net loss of a little over $100 million and other corporate reported net income of $552 million, which included a benefit on discrete tax items I previously mentioned. So on page 13 is our outlook page. Any guidance that I was going to give I've made through the presentation. The page is here for your reference.

So to wrap up, strong reported and strong underlying results this quarter across our businesses in an environment that continues to remain somewhat challenging with double-digit core loan growth, with broad-based strength in our underlying drivers, and with continued execution and excellent progress against our capital, our balance sheet, and expense commitments.

So with that, operator, we will open up the line now for Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: My first question is the capital progress has currently been solid this quarter; last week, however, there seems to have been more support in the Fed in terms of including the SIFI surcharge in the CCAR test. And I guess the question is in two parts: one, what do you think the chances are of the -- any or all of the CCAR surcharge or the CET1 surcharge to be included in CCAR; and two, what are the next steps in terms of business model adjustments, if that did pass?

MARIANNE LAKE: So to -- obviously we don't have any particular insight. I think the comments you're referring to were comments about the support for evaluating the possible inclusion of some or all [of it]. And so really it hasn't changed relative to previous comments and the door has clearly been left open for that, but we have no further information. And so far it's evaluating the possible inclusion of some or all of the surcharge, so we're just going to have to I suppose and see.

Meanwhile, as you know, we are -- and by the way, if it happens for us it would happen for everyone. We have shown you before -- not that that's a good outcome, but we've shown you before that we think that regardless the competitive peers set that we have is going to cluster at or around similar capital levels. And so if everybody has to increase their minimum, it is going to be a similar position for everyone.

Meanwhile, we are continuing to execute on everything that we've already told you we are going to do to optimize our capital. Our commitment is to go to firmly within the 4.5% bucket for the surcharge, and if we believe we can do it and it's economic and it's not going to hurt our clients, we may go further. So we will respond when we see the rules and we are not going to stop continuing to do the best we can to optimize our returns based on scarce resources.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And just the second question is you've clearly made also progress in terms of your deposit mix. As we potentially anticipate a rising rate environment for the back half of the year, given what the regulators have done in terms of saying, okay, here are the good deposits, here are the not-so-good deposits, how should we expect the pace and magnitude of retail deposit repricing or pass-through if the Fed does raise rates in the second half of this year?

MARIANNE LAKE: We actually haven't really changed our point of view since the investor day and previously about the fact that we are expecting retail deposit -- and there are other people who have slightly differing views. But we are expecting retail deposits to reprice higher and faster in this cycle than in previous rising rate cycles, given the competition for good, high-quality, LCR-compliant retail deposits; given the advancements in mobile banking; given the awareness in the general environment around low rates and the desire to participate in rising rates. So when we think about our sensitivity and our reprice, we model it in assumption that it's going to be higher, somewhat higher.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: I see your markets revenue are down 1% year over year the way you look at this, but I'm trying to reconcile that with Jamie's comments two months ago at a New York conference where you said there is repricing in rates derivatives, prime brokerage, clearing, and trade finance. I'm guessing it's just risk off.

Can you shed more light on what type of repricing you are seeing with any specific examples, because the transparency for us on the outside is pretty weak?

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Obviously, when you talk about trading, when you have two months to go in a quarter you don't know the exact number and repricing is a complex issue. I'll give you some very specific things and then I'll tell you why it's hard to figure out exactly what shows up.

Clearing, we've definitely seen people start to charge for clearing and effectively charge the balance sheet 25, 50 basis points. It's a small business so I don't think it's going to dramatically affect those lines. Prime broker, we've seen similar type of thing.

Repo, it seems that people are charging pretty much for repo. We need to get a return on it. Exotic derivatives, which are again very small, are being repriced to, I would say, full capital and liquidity. Muni credit has probably been repriced a little bit. Again, it's a small market.

If you go to credit and trading, so credit we've really not seen any repricing effectively in commercial credit. You've seen a little bit in mortgage to make up for the extra costs in mortgage. You've seen a little bit in auto; it got more aggressive, not less aggressive. So trade finance you've seen a little bit of repricing, and I know these are not all trading numbers.

What you don't see, Mike, is that in a lot of cases, while you may have repriced a little bit, you're also shedding business so that you have -- as you are protecting your margins by -- because of AML costs you are going to not do certain types of business anymore. In FHA the lifetime cost of servicing, you cut back on FHA volumes, etc. So you're protecting your margins, but you're actually shrinking your revenues in some cases. That's happening a little bit in clearing and prime broker and stuff like that; you want your best clients.

In other categories clients are -- like deposits, we haven't seen repricing effectively, I don't think, in non-operating deposits. On the other hand, some clients are saying let's restructure our relationship; it makes more sense for you, JPMorgan. I'm willing to give you other business which is not credit sensitive, etc.

It's kind of a whole of the amount of things taking place in there, but the goal is to get a proper return on your capital, not necessarily to show revenue growth in that line item. It's very easy to show revenue growth.

MIKE MAYO: And just one follow-up. When you say (multiple speakers)?

JAMIE DIMON: Mostly what you see in trading is just volume related and spread related, etc. Even in trading, spreads are narrow but breadth is also very low, which means spreads get gap out pretty quickly, which eventually could be good for trading. So it's unclear (multiple speakers).

MIKE MAYO: When you say a little repricing, is it bigger than a breadbox? Are we talking about basis points or 1% or 5%? What are you talking about here?

JAMIE DIMON: I'm talking about basis points, 20 basis points, 15 basis points, 10 basis points. That's all you need in some of these things to get an adequate return on capital as we currently look at capital.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Question on the deposit shrinkage. You obviously finished the program you announced at investor day. Just wondering if you're going to take it further; what the impact on revenues has been. And do you expect that the full benefit to NIM is already in 2Q or -- in the 2Q numbers or we are going to see more benefit in 3Q from the actions you took?

MARIANNE LAKE: So what I said, and hopefully it was clear, is that we actually exceeded our commitment. We actually shrunk our non-operating deposits by more than $100 billion and not just through our consumer deposits, but we are also able to grow wholesale operating deposits. So we had a good mix shift both in consumer versus wholesale, but also within wholesale and so we feel really great about that.

There are two priorities after that. The first is protecting that position and making sure that we are able to not have inflows of those deposits as the industry continues to absorb them. But the second is we will likely look to potentially push a little farther, but it gets harder and harder each margin, the next $5 billion or $10 billion, as you get more and more closely aligned to operating accounts and operating business. And we've always said that we want to do this for the right reasons, for capital efficiency, but not do it in a way that's going to materially harm our clients. So that's the lens.

JAMIE DIMON: The [product] has also been made in the Level III assets: derivative receivables, certain balance sheet items, RWA. So the effort to optimize the balance sheet for G-SIFI, etc., is not going to stop; that we are going to continue to do.

MARIANNE LAKE: But you know what, I don't anticipate us launching another and announcing another program. We've already done a little better. We will continue to try and do a little better.

In terms of revenue impact, not very much right now, as you might very well know, because you can see that the balance is much more on a spot basis that on an average basis. But the equation looking forward will be much the same math we said at investor day, approximately 25 basis points revenue on approximately $100 billion average for a half a year, but there would be some expense benefits on FDIC costs, etc. So not a very big number.

I think that was the question?

BETSY GRASECK: Yes, and the NIM benefit should flow into 3Q as well?

MARIANNE LAKE: A little bit, yes.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Marianne, was wondering if could remind us about the timing of your expense reduction targets in the consumer and investment bank. Specifically, if you hit the $57 billion in adjusted expenses for 2015, how much of the ultimate cost saves does that $57 billion target for this year incorporate? How much would you have achieved already in 2015 and any thoughts on the trajectory for remaining saves after this year?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so let me do this in two parts, and I'm going to start with the consumer businesses, where the commitment is actually a couple of years old and we are sort of well, well on our way to delivering against that -- the commitment $2 billion dollars in 2017 versus 2014. It's not exactly linear, but you can consider it to flow through time.

And if you look at the CCB page on whatever page that is, I think we show that for the first half of the year our expenses are down over the first half of last year by $0.5 billion. So that gives you a sense for how we are tracking. On the CIB, obviously the commitment is somewhat newer; at investor day this year $2.8 billion in 2017 versus 2014.

I would characterize that in two parts. $1.5 billion is business simplification. The majority of business simplification -- not all, but the majority -- will come out of our run rate in 2015. And you've already seen that in the first and second quarter when you've seen the $300 million, $400 million expense reductions in each of the quarters on business simplification.

The other $1.3 billion, which is all the reductions in technology and operations and headcount, is going to be things. We are working on it actively -- we have programs, we have people -- but it's going to be more of a 2016 and 2017 benefit. If I was to look at the first half of 2015 versus the first half of 2014, take the $500 billion in consumer and business simplification in the CIB space -- that's probably the right way to size it, about a quarter so far this year.

JOHN MCDONALD: A quarter of the total?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, great. Then a quick follow-up is on RWA. Any update to your year-end RWA targets and thoughts about how we should think about potential RWA levels longer term?

MARIANNE LAKE: RWA, advance RWA is down $36 billion, $37 billion; [one five three six]. We said a little greater than $1.5 trillion. We are still on track to be $1.5 trillion or a little greater, $1.5 trillion advanced at the end of the year. Standardized right now is at $1.5 trillion, $1.5 trillion, so pretty close to $1.5 trillion against the target at the end of the year of $1.55 trillion.

That's a little better, but obviously on the standardized you have some upward pressure as we continue to grow those really great loans that we are growing. If you look to our investor day targets, we are still hoping to maintain the discipline around both of those at approximately $1.5 trillion through time.

OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I'm just curious in terms of your core loan growth; you mentioned that that's up about 12% year over year. Can you give us a sense as to where that's growing the strongest and where you're seeing a bit more weakness? Within the core loan growth, specifically.

MARIANNE LAKE: Of course. I'll do it in three parts. First of all, it is growing pretty solidly or strongly, so either in-line or in many cases better than the industry across most of the product categories. The one that's growing the most strongly because of the way we are portfolioing loans is mortgage, so that's driving some of that outperformance. And the one that is most challenging, but still growing, is middle market. Fiercely competitive; everybody is chasing that sector.

But you can go through the businesses. We had 6% loan growth, 8% loan and lease growth in auto; 6% business banking; 19% core in consumer; 4% in commercial, so 3% core in card. So it's solid to strong pretty much across the board; most competitive in middle-market and flattered by portfolio and mortgages.

MATT BURNELL: Okay, Marianne, and for my follow-up I noticed I guess you were quoted in an earlier meeting today suggesting that there could be further provisions for the oil and gas portfolio. There's been some media reports prior to this week about regulators potentially looking a bit more carefully at your portfolio as well as a number of other banks.

Can you give us a little more color as to how you are thinking about the potential trends there and any comment you might want to give in terms of where the regulators are focusing?

MARIANNE LAKE: What I said earlier is not inconsistent; it's entirely consistent with what we said last quarter. We built reserves modestly for oil and gas last quarter on the back of the spring redetermination of borrowing base. We feel another modest reserve this quarter.

And we said we don't -- we might expect more reserves in the second half of the year. There's another redetermination cycle in the fall and it's I'm not going to say likely, but it's possible we will be selectively downgrading some clients. If none of that is out of our expectations, it's completely normal levels considering the cycle and how we think about the credits, we are still very happy.

And we are not going to make any comments on regulators.

JAMIE DIMON: Those reserves do not mean we're going to have losses.

MARIANNE LAKE: Correct. We are reserving for downgrades; doesn't necessarily mean that they are going to be cash losses.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Marianne, just wanted to follow up on that last point. Your commentary about credit, for the second half, is in line, you're $4 billion plus and you've got $1 billion of charge-offs this quarter again. So on that point just one question about where you continue to see underling improvements. Card obviously is still above your guidance, but can you give us some of the thoughts about where any existing improvement can come from?

MARIANNE LAKE: So credit, like charge-offs, have been very benign across the whole sales base. They have reverted to somewhat more normal levels in auto, so I'm not expecting there to be a big step changes in the underlying charge-offs in the wholesale space. We continue to see improvements at a slower pace in mortgage, but at 21 basis points we are sort of getting down there.

And card, while it is slightly above -- 2.6% above our 2.5% is also pretty much getting there. It's one of the reasons why we've said expect the second half to look like the first half in terms of order of magnitude and expect net-net low for long.

KEN USDIN: And then to your point about not expecting to be much loss from the energy provisioning and that we could see energy provisioning, plus this quarter you had a nice $300 million release from the NCI portfolio, is this kind of it for reserve release and can you talk about your outlook there?

MARIANNE LAKE: I would say in the non-credit -- sorry, just to clarify the comment on oil and gas; we said they will not necessarily translate into losses. We are not going to predict which ones will or won't.

On the reserves, for non-credit-impaired portfolio we are continuing to see improvements in charge-offs as well as home prices, albeit a little bit more gradually. So I would still expect there to be more reserve releases over the course of the next 18 months in hundreds of millions of dollars in total; not billions any longer, of course. We have $1.8 billion reserved right now.

In the post-credit-impaired space clearly that's life-of-loan model and so we will continue to evaluate that model against parameters that we have in it and expectations, so that will be what it is at the time. And in card we're not expecting any significant reserve actions.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Maybe we could just ask a question on card fees? That's been an area where growth in card fees have been pretty flat for a while as you ramp up reward spending. We saw a pretty nice jump quarter over quarter; some of that is seasonal, but it was a little stronger than what we saw the last couple of years.

Are we getting to a point where you are lapping some of these higher reward costs and growth in new accounts and we should start to see that revenue line track more closely with spending, or is this something unusual this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: So you are absolutely right; all the underlying phenomenon are still there. We are still seeing spread compression, but we are seeing very strong growth in spend. We aren't quite lapped yet on new accounts going through the revenue rate. We will eventually be, but it's a good thing to be adding these new accounts that will drive strong spend in the future.

So I would say our near-term guidance is that we are expecting our revenue rate to be at the lower end of that 12%, 12.5% range. And, yes, over time as spread compression abates and we continue to drive strong growth with the quality of our products and our partnerships we would expect that to start to edge up.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay. And on the card loan side it seemed like you saw a decent uptick this quarter. You are starting to get past some of the runoff and it seemed more of a core driver.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. We told you we would hope to drive core loan growth in the card space low single digits and this quarter it was 3%.

JAMIE DIMON: I just want to emphasize -- Marianne mentioned it, but emphasize; Chase Paymentech, which is seeing really good growth, probably 50% faster than the industry, but we are also signing people with Chase Paymentech combined with ChaseNet. We are running real volume across it and we are signing up a lot of folks for that and ChasePay. So the strategy of ours is kind of coming to fruition and we hope it will be a good driver; happy customers and good growth for the next 10 years.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: So first question on capital. I just want to get a sense as to how we should be thinking about preferred issuance plans going forward now that you've met the 150 basis point RWA target.

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously we don't give you lots of details on our issuance plans. You are right; one of the drivers for us to issue in part, not exclusively, was it's not -- as you know, we were Tier 1 leverage constrained in CCAR and so as a result of issuing this we not only helped TLAP, but we help our CCAR stress capacity. And we are about 164 RWA. So we are not going to talk about forward issuance but we've made progress.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay. And then just a follow-up regarding, Marianne, your comments about the trading outlook for at least in the near term, recognizing it's still very early days in the quarter. Since the very start we've seen, or at least we've experienced, a number of global shocks and on the regulatory front we do have the Volcker implementation deadline, which is looming. So taking all those factors into consideration, how should we be thinking about the near-term trading outlook?

MARIANNE LAKE: So to start with Volcker, we aren't expecting Volcker to have an impact in the near-term trading outlook. We've been talking very consistently over an extended period of time about the fact that we've reshaped our business through time to be compliant in substance and in form with Volcker. And so while that was real reshaping of the business, the last 18 months have been really focused on getting operationally ready around the reporting and the metrics; it's been hard work and we are ready.

So I don't expect it to have a direct impact on our near-term trading. Clearly over time we need to continue to evolve the feedback loop with regulators, but that will be entirely gradual.

With respect to the trading, it is too early for us to say anything specific about the second quarter -- sorry, the third quarter -- except to say we are -- all other things equal, we would expect to see normal seasonality from the market. Nothing has changed that fundamentally wouldn't have us expecting normal seasonality in the third quarter.

JAMIE DIMON: I just want to point out that trading, if you look at it over a long period of time, has been -- we've become very consistent. I think in 2014 we had no trading loss days and even this year there were only a handful of trading loss days. Obviously some areas are up and some are down, but our shares are high. I think we are doing a great job servicing clients.

We are adopting all the new rules. Like [50%] of interest-rate swaps are on SEF today and I think it's 95% of FX trading by transaction is electronic. You can do a lot on your mobile phone or iPad now, so the business is actually doing fine. The returns on risk are very good. We used to report that, but kind of return on VAR are very good. It's become a much more stable business that clients need overtime.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right. And just to add to that, I would say that we also talked about, in the period of transition towards a more normal economy and rising rates, you might see some shocks like this. We've weathered both the EMEA bond sell off and China well, and it just speaks to the strength of our risk management discipline. And we generally do pretty well in more difficult markets.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: You guys had a very decent mortgage banking quarter in the second quarter with rates going up. We know that the refis have started to come down, but the purchase market has been stronger I think than people expected in the second quarter. What do you see going into the third and fourth quarter, especially with the new regulations coming out with the disclosures with (inaudible)?

MARIANNE LAKE: So with respect to -- we saw a stronger seasonal purchase market. We actually gained a little share in the purchase market in the quarter and refi held up pretty well because of pipelines coming into the quarter. But we are expecting that to grow seasonally in purchase and in refi to pull that down to smaller levels in the third seasonally. And no direct impact from the disclosure requirements.

JAMIE DIMON: Part of the quarter is the reserve takedown, so don't double count that. That may not be there next quarter.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right.

PAUL MILLER: (multiple speakers) Can you talk a little bit about the tax --? My follow-up question on the tax rate. Should we be modeling in 28% to 30% going forward; is that 25% just an outlier?

MARIANNE LAKE: The way I would think about it is normal tax rate for the year is 30%, plus or minus. Just given the way tax reserving is it's usually biased to being fairly conservative and so, as you know, we have seen discrete tax gains periodically, some of them not insignificant, resulting from completion of settlements and audits with tax authorities. Not to say that you should necessarily model in directly 30%, but we don't predict or forecast the tax benefits.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: The equity trading has been very strong the last couple quarters, both for you and for others, assuming it continues the rest of this earnings season. As you step back and think about some of the drivers there, you mentioned some repricing; we've obviously seen some deepening of some markets, increased volatility. Can we think about there being potentially a long-term secular recovery in the equities trading, or do you think it's more just stocks are going up, just global QE, or too early to tell?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's definitely the latter and I think it's perhaps a little too early to tell on the former.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, what type of mortgage loans are you adding? Are these jumbo? Are they fixed rate?

JAMIE DIMON: Jumbo.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So over half are jumbo, the other are conventional performing fee plus.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And I guess are you choosing to add some mortgage loans instead of securities? Because you've got a smaller securities book than a lot of peers and it seems like there's capacity to add there.

MARIANNE LAKE: We have a fairly large securities portfolio and our decisions around that are in part driven by our overall interest-rate risk positioning, but with respect to the mortgages it's fundamentally a better execution decision for us. We will portfolio or loan where it makes economic sense to do it relative to distributing it, other than jumbo where, clearly, they will always go on our balance sheet.

JAMIE DIMON: If you can put a jumbo on a higher ROE than a Fannie/Freddie, you would do that. And part of the investment portfolio is for liquidity and obviously, because non-operating deposits are down, proportions of that will come down too.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I just want to follow up on the conversation in fixed income, and I agree with you; it seems like you weathered the whole Greece and China storm pretty well. The thought on the lack of liquidity in the fixed income markets gets a lot of attention. You guys have the most market share; have the lowest standard deviation in the business. As a liquidity provider that's a good thing for you.

But curious on how you are thinking about preparing for what seems to be a pretty serious issue and how serious of an issue do you think it is in terms of the potential disruption?

MARIANNE LAKE: There's been a lot of press and reports, including recently, on market liquidity and there are a number of factors playing into it. It's true that liquidity, in some cases, has dried up quite quickly when there's been extreme volatility and it fed on itself. But the reality is that we've talked about the fact that that was likely to be a phenomenon that happened more frequently as we transition to a more normal environment.

We are very disciplined about how we trade and support our clients and generally we've been able to weather them very well, as has generally the community. Not that we know, but we haven't got any stories or horror stories around (inaudible) a bond sell-off or other things this quarter. So I think it's definitely an issue; one that we need to watch, one that has multiple root causes, and one that we are generally taking in our stride.

JAMIE DIMON: And look at the big picture and we pointed it out, the financial system -- like in the United States banks are much more sound. Trading books have more capital liquidity. The whole system is better off. So you can't look at one piece and say what will that do.

The second is that these -- obviously there's less liquidity in the marketplace and it's a whole bunch of factors. It's hard to tease out exactly which one, but trading books have more capital and more liquidity. I think people are a little worried about potential Volcker rule violations, so they are being a little more cautious.

There are obviously structural changes in electronic trading, HFT, and each business is slightly different. So not every -- I wouldn't say everyone is affected exactly the same. It's also true that the system is pretty resilient to what happened with the currencies and treasury, and that's a good sign.

I think what we are going to be really cautious about is when markets aren't that good. JPMorgan is fine. We are not talking about whether or not JPMorgan is going to have a hard time with liquidity. We are not. The question I really would have is, when markets are tough, will there be a feedback from -- these violent markets, will there be more volume or less volume.

Someone was quoted the other day saying markets always pull back when there are tough times; that is true. The question is will be harder and worse, will it feed back into the real economy. It's not will there be lack of liquidity.

During the crisis they were two market makers out there and we were one of them and so you need them a little bit, but it doesn't stop markets from gapping out. We are not saying this is a terrible thing, just being very cautious about it. And we are always trying to be very cautious.

MATT O'CONNOR: Speaking of cautious, the last one I have is on living wills. I know we have a little bit of time before we hear anything, but if you look at the comments from the previous year, what they wanted you all to address, it seems like there was a massive amount of progress made. I'm not sure what you can tell us, but curious your thoughts on progress made and then maybe timing on when we might hear regulators thoughts.

MARIANNE LAKE: So I can tell you that obviously we took the feedback from the regulators as the industry did exactly as you would expect, entirely seriously; put loads of resources and effort to bear in making as much progress as we thought was humanly possible over the course of the period. And we feel that we made very, very -- I would agree with you; the industry, but JPMorgan specifically, made very, very significant progress in addressing the feedback between getting it and the July submission date. And obviously we feel like we have a credible plan.

That's not to say that we won't continue and some of our plans, and you saw it in some other disclosures. We are going to continue to work very hard at simplifying our legal entity structure over the next few years and interconnectedness and operational resiliency and all the things -- and reporting readiness, all the things that are going to make it even better.

So we think we made very, very significant progress. We think our plan is credible. We don't know exactly when we will get feedback, probably in the fall.

JAMIE DIMON: And we respond to every single thing regulators raise with the huge resources to meet their needs. It will probably be iterative over time about they'll make more demands this year, etc. and --. By the way, I think there is a 50-page public part that you can actually read and it shows you. That's a 50-page summary of I think a 200,000 page detailed report.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Marianne, you mentioned a couple of times about the competitiveness in the middle-market lending space. Can you give us some color on what you are seeing, whether it's underwriting standards, and what kind of product type in the middle market that is most competitive?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's very broadly competitive and we compete obviously with big banks, regional banks, and non-banks. It's not that we are losing loans and deals most often on price. It's normally on size of holds or non-bank taking whole deals or on structures, but it's very, very competitive. Everybody likes the sector for growth and everybody likes -- so everybody is trying to make progress.

We are being very, very disciplined, and as a result of that, slightly lower growth than the industry average. And you might not always want us to always grow at the industry average. You want us to hold true to discipline.

GERARD CASSIDY: Right.

JAMIE DIMON: Remember, we looked at the whole relationship. I forgot the exact number, but if you look at the middle market relationship, I think something like half, maybe even a little bit less, of the revenues are from the lending.

GERARD CASSIDY: You guys have made great progress with the penetration of the mobile banking app that you've created as well as online banking. You showed us that your branch count is down over 100 branches on year-over-year basis. What do you see for the branches as you go forward? Is that trend line likely to continue as you continue with the increased penetration from the mobile app?

MARIANNE LAKE: The way I would characterize it is we had a period of time following the Wampum merger where we were in new markets and we didn't have the right distribution footprint where we were building. We said about a year and a half ago that we felt like we had the right footprint as a macro matter, about 5,600, and that now we are around perfecting that, which is about consolidating certain branches where it makes sense but building new ones where makes sense. Consolidating them together where it makes sense.

You will see I think Gordon said approximately 150 net down in each of the next couple of years and that's probably still the right way to look at it, but it's really perfecting the network. Moving branches to the areas we like where there's a high density of affluence. And then, as you know, really looking at the nature of branches: so the footprint, the way we are using them, the way we are staffing them, importantly, moving them to more advice and less transaction, more automation.

Definitely responsive to the evolution in customer preferences. And mobile and online is not only a fantastic customer experience evidenced in our experience stat, but it's also a lower cost to serve, so we are also improving the profitability of the very highly transactional customers. I think Gordon used the word omnichannel. We have a place for everything in our suite and branches are very important. We're just going to be evolving them to continue to meet customer needs.

JAMIE DIMON: One add is that we are thinking about attacking a new city for the first time, like in a major way, because we want to see how that works out.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: I was just curious about the reduction of the non-operating deposits and I would have expected that to come mainly out of the corporate and investment bank. But when you look at the disclosures on your average asset level, it's essentially been $850 billion plus/minus each of the last five quarters. Where is the shrink really happening, or how do we see it?

MARIANNE LAKE: In the non-operating deposits within the wholesale deposits, the majority is the CIB, but not quite two-thirds. And then you've got the commercial bank and you've got a little bit in asset management. So it is the majority of the number, but there are still sizable numbers, particularly in the commercial bank in the financial (inaudible) space.

And then, when you look at our overall balance sheet, you see cash going down because of the deposits. You see securities going down, but strong loan growth offsetting, and then small reductions in trading and secured financing.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: But when I look at total assets in the CIB, it's 845 this quarter versus 846 last year. It just doesn't look like a whole bunch came out of there. It looks like it all came out of the --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Are you doing year-over-year?

JAMIE DIMON: You're starting in the wrong time period.

MARIANNE LAKE: Are you starting at the year-end or year over year?

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Well, if you go linked quarter it's 865 to 845. I'm just curious; it doesn't seem to mesh up to --.

JAMIE DIMON: Well, we are getting more operating deposits, too.

MARIANNE LAKE: We talked about the deposit reduction is overachieving in non-op and improving mix in operating. So, trust me -- and I'm not looking at what you're looking at, so I do trust you -- but trust me that 60%-ish of it is CIB.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. When you see it in your public disclosures it all looks like it's coming out of corporate and other, which is down more than 100 linked quarter, so I was just kind of curious how it all works. Because if --.

JAMIE DIMON: We will clarify off this line because (multiple speakers).

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks. My questions have been addressed, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Just following up on the markets discussion. Curious whether or not you have seen some of the drama around Greece impact M&A discussions in Europe this quarter and maybe an update on the IB backlog at this point.

JAMIE DIMON: The M&A -- we don't think Greece has affected the M&A dialogue very much, because it's been very active pretty much around the world. And when I say around the world, it's also like European companies coming to America and American companies going to Europe, etc., and those conversations continue.

MARIANNE LAKE: A lot to Europe, yes.

JAMIE DIMON: A lot to Europe, yes. So Greece had no real effect on that. Greece is a very, very small percent of the Eurozone in total, so economically it's not a driving factor for most of the companies there. Psychologically maybe it's going to affect some people, but I don't see why a company that has its own ambitions is going to change them because of Greece.

MARIANNE LAKE: And would just -- with respect to the backlog, I would say it's very good.

JAMIE DIMON: We did see a tremendous amount of something that we've almost never seen before, of American companies financing in euro because it was cheaper to do that, even if you swap back to dollars. So you saw a lot of American companies going to Europe to do that.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. Thanks for that. And then on security services, I know that you all highlighted that it's up quarter over quarter on the seasonal strength for the dividend season, but it was down year over year. Can you help us reconcile the year-over-year decline?

MARIANNE LAKE: I think if you go back to last quarter, Brennan, and take a look at the remarks from last quarter, we talked about the change in presentation of some expenses versus revenues for the ADR business that drove a reduction, but just a classification issue. And then in addition we did lose a large client at the end of last year and that is having an impact. I think if you go back and look at the second quarter, hopefully that will make it clear.

And so the guidance, when we did those -- when we made that presentational change and obviously we talked about the client exit a few quarters ago, the guidance was, given those, we would expect the revenues to run between $950 million seasonally. And this is obviously a strong season and, therefore, it at through $950 million and $1 billion seasonally and, therefore, it's at the $1 billion.

JAMIE DIMON: So Marianne gave you all very specific guidelines, which we don't normally do, on treasury services, investor services, and expenses in the commercial bank because a lot of you have your models wrong. And Sarah finds it very frustrating that you can't get it corrected quarter after quarter, so we've said here is the number that is actually our best guess. So, please, put it in your third- and fourth-quarter models.

And mortgage revenue was another one which has been ongoing to us. And what's the other one so we can just get it on the table whatever it is?

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Jamie, you made a comment about attacking new markets and that sort of tags on to what I was going to ask, which is whether there are any of the old WaMu markets where you've not been able to expand as aggressively as you've wanted to and that you might be thinking about exiting. So I'm just wondering, can you just tell us how you feel about individual markets right now?

JAMIE DIMON: Nancy, it's really important -- when we talk about these numbers, by the way, RWA and branches, we are not making commitments to anybody. That's our best guess knowing what we know today, but we reserve the right to change that on a moment's notice for whatever reason that makes sense for the Company and the clients.

And so branches -- it is very important that you look at branches city by city until you have the right footprint. So if you remember, the old A&P which never changed its locations and it never changed sizes and it failed. Any retail business should always be adding in new communities, subtracting in some; having the branches to adjust to a new reality, whether it's getting bigger or getting smaller.

In our case it's getting smaller, but again we are not getting smaller because we are guessing at this stuff. We are getting smaller because of the less need for operations and branches now. People are doing far more on mobile phones like that.

So we actually do it city by city. You don't set an overall guideline and say you have to do X, Y, or Z. It's city by city. And so, for the most part, in the WaMu footprint, I think Florida and California for the most part, city by city we went in and added what we thought we should have.

Wampum -- remember we also added on top of that small business, private banking, some middle-market, other businesses that WaMu wasn't even in. It was part of the expansion of those businesses, too. And so when I said a new city, I'm talking about what we've never really done -- I was talking about this way back to BankOne and the stocks when we did the merger with JPMorgan -- is going into a city de novo that we never been in. There you've got to look at how many branches you are going to open, how long is it going to take. And so we do want to do one of those and that will have nothing to do with WaMu because they are also places that WaMu wasn't.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Another geographic question. I get that Greece is not that important to the Eurozone and the events of the past couple weeks seem to have been a lot of theater, frankly. But the events in China in the last couple of weeks have been somewhat worrisome. Have your plans for China changed at all, given what seems to be a retreat from open markets there?

JAMIE DIMON: No. I don't think there's been a retreat from open markets there either.

Remember, we've always said about China is you got to look and plan for the long run, which we do in all businesses. McKinsey has a report that shows that they are going to have 25% or so of some of the Fortune 1000 in I think it was 10 or 12 years. Enormous growth in their companies. Their companies are going overseas. Their companies are doing more M&A.

We did that one unique transaction where ChemChina bought Pirelli in Italy. Obviously, when we have a unique network, we can help a Chinese company and an Italian company at the same time, so we are building there for the long run.

As a risk management tool we've always said that the way we treat that is we will be prepared for very tough times and I think it's a mistake not to grow because you're going to have tough times. I have never seen an economy that didn't have tough times. If you went back to the United States, when J.P. Morgan was building JPMorgan back in 1850 and 1860, look every single time that you panic because America had a recession there would be no JPMorgan. So we are not going to change.

What we've seen with the officials in China is that they are very responsive to changes, and you can argue whether they should have gotten that involved in the stock market. You can't manipulate stock markets. But they are very responsive to lending.

They've changed their reserve policies, their RMB policies, the QFII policies, the Hong Kong Shanghai Connect. Not everything they do is going to work, but they still seem very committed to more and more market reform, more and more of taking SOE -- rationalization of SOEs and taking them public, so some market discipline there. Creating more of a consumer society.

And what we've always said -- and I think they have the wherewithal to meet their short-term objectives of growth, but we expect that they will have bumps in the road. We expect that and we are going to look right through that. The fact that their -- I also remember their market went from $4 trillion value -- so it's a $10 trillion economy. It went from $4 trillion market value to $10 trillion; now it's back to $6 trillion. I think those are the numbers.

The American stock market has done that roundtrip a couple times itself and so the American economy is $18 trillion. I think our stock market is $25 trillion, so there will still be huge opportunities there. If they ever completely reverse what they are talking about doing, you will see it in far more significant ways than them getting involved in the stock market.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK: Just a quick follow-up. Marianne, earlier on you were talking about deposit betas and, for a lot of very good reasons, expecting that deposit betas will be a little bit faster this time around. But could you round out the conversation as to how you are thinking about how your NIM is going to traject in a rising rate scenario? Because I got a few questions on whether the deposit betas being a little faster means that the NIM trajectory is likely to be different from last time rates rose for you guys.

JAMIE DIMON: Marianne, you showed a NIM thing that NIM would go back to 265 to 275. And, remember, when we say deposit beta it is by product, by --and it's got gamma, so the first 25 basis points, the second are a different 25 basis points, they are different than the third 25 basis points. It's a pretty intensive analysis to try to get accurate; that's what we're trying to do. And it's all in that number that was presented and we don't think that's changed dramatically.

As Marianne said, we are assuming that whatever happened in the last cycle, this one will be worse. In other words, you will gather less of the benefit from rates going up than we have in the past.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, because the last time rates rose your NIM didn't move up that much.

JAMIE DIMON: Listen, there's a unique --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, (multiple speakers).

JAMIE DIMON: It is a unique circumstance when you're at zero. There are a lot of things that happen when rates grow to 25 basis points that there will be -- you will pass very little of that also. And we also see that -- we will see that in money market funds. We will see that in some forms of deposits, etc.

The beta gets much higher as rates go up. If I had to guess, I would say we are conservative, not aggressive.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: This is actually Steve dialing in for Gerard. Just two follow-ups. You had mentioned the credit downgrades; I believe you said oil and gas. Were there any other sectors, and if there were, just some figures on them?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, the credit downgrades included oil and gas and we called it out just because in total oil and gas was $140 million of our total net $250 million reserve build. But also I said that there were select names, it's like a dozen names, so it's not really like there's another sector, just very discrete names.

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay, great. Thank you. And just a second follow-up. Can you just give us your mortgage duration and how far you are willing to take it?

JAMIE DIMON: No, we are not going to give you that. We disclose -- when you say mortgage duration, obviously we build into all of our models mortgage duration. You guys can calculate that yourself by looking at disclosures in the 10-K that show mortgages at 3%, 3.5%, 4%, 4.5%, etc. And obviously we can change that at will with our investment portfolio and things like that.

It's all in the NIM already. So obviously we have negative convexity in our portfolio.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you, everyone.

JAMIE DIMON: Wait. Before you all go, I just want to tell you one of these days I'm not going to come in on this call. I'm not doing it because I want to avoid it; I don't like it. And obviously, if anything is important or really bad, I'm not going to ever try to avoid bad news here because we like to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth, the good, bad, and ugly.

But Marianne has started to do such a good job that I've become unnecessary to be in all of them and I can obviously go do other things. So don't be surprised if one of these days I don't show up; don't read anything into it. Thank you for being here.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150715eb7e0012x
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,333 words
   PD
14 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to JPMorgan Chase's first-quarter 2015 earnings call. This call is being recorded.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by.

At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks, operator. Good morning everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website.

Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

So starting on page 1, the firm reported net income of $5.9 billion for the quarter and EPS of $1.45 a share and a return on tangible common equity of 14%. On revenue of nearly $25 billion, up 4% year on year reflecting strong performance. The quarter was characterized by a constructive environment supporting broad strength in underlying performance.

We saw higher levels of volatility and client activity on the back of a number of macro events driving higher markets revenues. We also saw strength across IBCs and core loan growth was strong up 10% year on year.

Included in the results was firm-wide legal expense of approximately $500 million after-tax. Outside of legal other small and notable items on a net basis did not contribute significantly to the result which means that a more core earnings number would have been well the other side of $6 billion. Adjusted expense which excludes legal was $14.2 billion, down $100 million from the fourth quarter with an adjusted overhead ratio of 57%.

And outside of a modest reserve bill for oil and gas which I will come back to credit trends remained benign and firm-wide net charge-offs remained low at $1.1 billion. We continued to make progress against our capital targets reaching a fully phased in CET1 ratio of 10.6% while returning over $3 billion to shareholders in the quarter. Finally we're pleased that we did not receive an objection to our capital plan and the Board announced its intention to increase the quarterly dividend by 10% to $0.44 a share and authorized gross share repurchases of $6.4 billion.

Before I move on you will notice we streamlined our earnings press release for the quarter, simplified the format and focused in on key messages.

Skipping over page 2, turning to page 3 and our balance sheet. As I said the firm's fully phased in CET1 ratio advanced with 10.6% up about 45 basis points quarter on quarter with earnings, model benefit and the combined impact of portfolio runoff and other RWA reductions being offset by capital distributions. The fully phased in standardized CET1 ratio was 10.8%, up from 10.5% in the fourth quarter of 2014.

While we made very good progress during the first quarter the pace of capital accretion during the year won't be linear particularly given the timing of model benefit. We continue to expect our ratio to be 11% plus or minus at the end of this year. The firm and the bank SLR improved slightly from last quarter at 5.7% and 6% respectively.

On the next page on page 4, we've added a new page on our balance sheet given the objectives we outlined at Investor Day on nonoperating deposits. So turn to page 4. As you look at the balance sheet it's important to look both on an average and on a spot basis.

If you look on the left our average balance sheet is higher by $46 billion which reflects a significant ramp up in deposits in the fourth quarter. But if you look next to that you can see on a spot basis that March is actually relatively flat to December. And if you move to the right end of the period deposits are also flat quarter on quarter but with a relatively significant mix shift towards retail deposits.

With other deposits down $24 billion predominantly driven by client actions related to nonoperating deposits reflecting good progress towards our goal in what has effectively been a matter of weeks since Investor Day. We're actively engaged with our clients and working with them to implement plans to further reduce these deposits and we expect the second quarter to be meaningful in this context. We're still committed to our goal of reducing them by up to $100 billion by the end of the year.

Moving on to NIM and NII it's the higher average cash balances on deposit growth as well as some asset reductions that drove the 7 basis point compression in NIM. And in terms of NII day count was a large driver of the decline.

Turning to page 5 and Consumer & Community Banking, the combined Consumer businesses generated $2.2 billion of net income for the quarter and an ROE of 17%. Revenue of $10.7 billion was up 2% year on year driven by healthy growth in balances and in noninterest revenue partially offset by spread compression. Revenue declined 2% sequentially reported or 4% if you were to exclude the loss in the fourth quarter associated with portfolio exits in Card.

And this decline is driven by seasonality in NIR as well as fewer days in the quarter. We remain focused on the customer experience and on our strong customer satisfaction rankings and we continue to grow households and see very low levels of attrition. And we're deepening relationships.

Our average deposits are now over $0.5 trillion, up 9% year on year. We have record client investment assets up 12%. Our active mobile customer base is a 22%, Card sales volume up 8% and our overall loan book grew for the third consecutive quarter with core loan growth of 15% year on year.

And across CCB we remain disciplined on expense management. Year-on-year expenses were lower by nearly $250 million and our headcount is down about 1,900 so far this year.

You will recall that at Investor Day we committed to reduce expenses by about $2 billion in 2017 relative to 2014. And while it will not be exactly linear you should assume a meaningful down payment towards that $2 billion in 2015.

Moving to page 6 Consumer & Business Banking. CBB generated net income of $828 million for the quarter up 10% year on year and with an ROE of 28%.

We continue to see robust performance across our drivers. Average deposit balance growth was up 9%, up $39 billion from last year and in Business Banking the momentum we saw in 2014 carried over into 2015 and supported loan originations of $1.5 billion, up 2% year on year but with average loan balances up 6% also driven by higher utilization rates.

These underlying drivers helped offset the impact of the low rate environment. NII was down 5% quarter over quarter in line with our guidance on lower deposit margin which was down 12 basis points driven by lower reinvestment rates as well as day count.

NIR while down seasonally quarter on quarter was up 5% year on year due to strong client investment and debit revenues. Expenses were down 3% year on year reflecting continued improvement in branch efficiency.

Mortgage Banking on page 7, you'll notice we simplified the reporting for Mortgage Banking here; it's now consistent with the other CCB lines of business. But the additional detail by sub line of business is still available in our earnings supplement.

So overall net income was $326 million for the quarter, originations were strong at $25 billion up 7% quarter over quarter as we maintain share in a larger market and realized higher revenue margins. And we added $15 billion of high-quality loans in the quarter to our balance sheet driving slightly higher NII quarter on quarter despite fewer days.

Although production was higher our total revenue declined quarter over quarter on lower repurchase benefits and lower servicing revenue. Expense of $1.2 billion was down 6% quarter over quarter and down 13% year on year but excluding legal would have been down 19% year on year, over $0.25 billion despite higher volumes as we continue to tightly control our costs.

On credit we continued to see improvements in home prices and delinquencies and released $100 million of NCI reserves this quarter. And you can see the net charge-off rate at 30 basis points was down 25 basis points year on year.

Moving on to Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto net income of $1.1 billion down 3% year on year with an ROE of 22% but excluding reserve releases net income was up 11%. In the quarter we moved our commercial card loans to the CIB to align with the client relationships. This was a $1.3 billion reduction in Card loan balances and relatively modest impact of less than $50 million on each of revenue and expense.

Revenue of $4.6 billion was relatively flat year on year with the Card revenue rate of 12.2% in line with guidance. On solid sales growth and reflecting continued investment in acquisitions.

And in Auto we saw solid loan and lease growth partially offset by spread compression. Expense was up 2% year on year predominantly driven by higher auto lease depreciation. In Card we saw end-of-period loan growth of $3 billion excluding the commercial card transfer I just mentioned and we saw sales growth of 8%.

This sales growth is lower than recent growth rates which have typically been in the double digits reflecting the impact of lower gas prices estimated to be about 200 basis points as well as a generally competitive environment. In Commerce Solutions we're gaining share; volume was up 13% year on year, driven by continued strong spend as well as the addition of new merchants. And in Auto results continue to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales and stable used-car values.

It was the 14th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth with average balances up 6% year on year. Year to date the pipeline remains healthy reflecting continued strength in the market as well as the strength of our manufacturing partners. Finally on credit, card delinquency rates and net charge-offs remained low.

On page 9 the Corporate & Investment Bank, CIB reported net income of $2.5 billion on revenue of $9.6 billion and an ROE of 16%. Revenue was up 8% year on year as market conditions in the quarter benefited both investment banking and markets and our businesses performed well.

In banking our IB fees of $1.8 billion were up 22% year on year. We continue to rank number one in global IB fees with 8.6% share up 100 basis points since last year.

Advisory fees were up 42% which was a strong start for both JPMorgan as well as the market with some large transactions. In fact this was our highest first quarter on record and we saw share gains of 150 basis points.

Debt underwriting fees were up 16% driven by acquisition financing. Aside from that debt issuance was generally lower and equity underwriting fees were up 13% in a market that was up only 4%. Our wallet rank improved to number one both globally and in the US.

Looking forward for IB fees we had some notable large transactions in the first quarter and so we do expect the second quarter to be lower although our pipeline remains strong. Treasury services revenue of $1 billion was down 2% year on year mainly driven by lower deposit NII and lower trade finance revenue. And lending revenue was $353 million, up 9% given dividends on restructured securities.

Moving on to markets revenue of $5.7 billion it was up 9% year on year but if you exclude business simplification both total markets as well as fixed income markets would have been up 20%. A number of macro events occurred in the quarter including Central Bank actions, the Swiss franc decoupling, a stronger dollar and oil price volatility which supported markets performance broadly in currencies, emerging markets, rates, commodities and equities. In fact equities had one of its strongest quarters up 22% with strength in derivatives and cash in particular across the US and Asia.

The first half of the quarter was particularly strong. The market has absorbed a number of the macro events at this point and recent sentiment is that the Fed will act later rather than sooner this year. As a result while we are still seeing good client flow and volatility does remain elevated it is somewhat lower coming into the second quarter.

With respect to business simplification in the second quarter it will happen overall neutral impact to our P&L but will have or drive a $300 million decline year on year in revenue with a $300 million offset in lower expenses. Security services revenue $934 million was down 9% year on year driven by two factors.

First the impact of change in presentation for client revenue sharing agreements in our ADR issuance business. Effective this quarter these past few payments to clients will be treated as a reduction of revenue having formerly been treated as an expense but with no P&L impact.

Second at the end of the fourth quarter of last year there was a significant client exit and the revenue impact of this is reflected in this quarter's results. So for the remainder of 2015 given those two facts we expect security services revenue to be in the range of $950 million to $1 billion a quarter depending on seasonality.

Lastly on expense total expense was $5.7 billion up 1% year on year with a comp to revenue ratio of 32% for the quarter flat year on year and an overhead ratio of $0.59. Non-compensation expense declined due to business simplification partially offset by higher legal expense year on year.

Moving on to page 10 and the Commercial Bank, it was a strong quarter with respect to the underlying fundamentals in this business, another record quarter for investment banking revenue with gross revenues of over $750 million. In absolute dollars it was our strongest quarter ever for loan growth adding over $5 billion in loans across C&I and CRE and revolver utilization was at its highest level since 2009. Credit quality remained exceptional with continued loan net charge-offs of only 3 basis points.

So overall financial performance for the quarter was solid. Net income was $600 million on $1.7 billion of revenue and an ROE of 17%. Revenue increased 4% year on year driven by record investment banking revenue which was up nearly 70%.

On increased equity underwriting and M&A activity was partially offset by continued yield compression. Expenses increased 3% year on year as we continued to invest in controls but our overhead ratio is consistent with the prior year. We're reaching a peak in control cost in this business and you should expect expenses to stabilize from here.

Loan balances increased 11% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter. C&I loans grew 4% sequentially in line with the industry driven by higher utilization in our corporate client banking book. And in CRE loan growth was 3% continuing to exceed the industry on strong activity in both multifamily lending as well as real estate banking.

Finally on credit and reserve for the full firm we added a little over $100 million to reserves relating to oil and gas exposure this quarter, the majority of which is here in the Commercial Bank. We review our energy exposure on a name-by-name basis and under a range of commodity price assumptions.

This quarter's reserve build reflects downgrades in the E&P portfolio and if the current price environment continues it's reasonable to expect some further reserve builds during 2015 but relatively modest. However, in the context of a funded portfolio of $15 billion this is a very modest build and is fully within the range of our expectations at this part of the cycle for energy.

And although we're taking reserve it is not clear that they will translate into credit losses as the industry and our clients are not standing still but actively working to manage liquidity and leverage in the face of lower prices.

Moving to page 11 and Asset Management a good quarter in Asset Management, net income of $500 million and ROE of 22% and 27% pretax margin on $3 billion of revenue. Revenue was up 7% year on year driven by flows and higher banking balances and expense of $2.2 billion was up 5% year on year primarily driven by investments in infrastructure and controls and including modest legal expenses. This marks the 24th consecutive quarter of long-term net inflows at $16 billion driving record AUM of $1.8 trillion up 7% year on year and client assets of $2.4 trillion, the strength in multi-asset and equity flows.

In banking we reported strong balances in both lending and deposits, average loan balances were up 8% year on year and average deposits up 6%. And we reported strong investment performance with 79% of mutual fund AUMs ranked in the first or second quartiles over five years.

Turning to Corporate and turning to page 12 Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $221 million but the results included a loss in the quarter of $173 million pretax primarily due to a timing impact of cost associated with certain nonoperating deposits we plan to exit. On other corporate as we've completed the spinoff of OEP and other portfolio sales during the first quarter the remaining private equity business is not expected to be a significant contributor to the firm's earnings. Therefore, beginning this quarter and going forward we will be disclosing our corporate private equity results as part of other corporate.

This quarter private equity contributed a modest positive to the results. Also included in the results of other corporate were $300 million pretax of legal expense which is largely offset by $177 million of net income from tax items.

Moving to page 13 and the outlook, I addressed most of this guidance through the presentation. I just want to highlight a couple of items.

First in CCB, in the Consumer businesses, a couple of geography points relative to analyst models. We guided in the fourth quarter to expect the first quarter's Consumer Bank revenues to be down on deposit margin compression. We saw that this quarter as expected and we expect deposit margins to remain pressured as rates remain low.

In the mortgage bank at Investor Day we guided for revenues to be down approximately $1 billion for the year on lower servicing revenues as well as lower repurchase benefit. We saw some of that this quarter and that guidance remains.

Against that as I said earlier across CCB we do expect to deliver a meaningful portion of the $2 billion expense reduction guidance in 2015. Finally on this page on Asset Management for the full-year expect the pretax margin in ROE to be at the low end of the through the cycle target range.

So wrapping up a strong result for the quarter in a constructive environment. We saw strong market and transaction activity despite continued margin compression. The performance continues to reflect the strength of each of our franchises, strong markets revenue and IB fees, 9% growth in retail deposits, 10% core loan growth and good progress against our capital, our balance sheet and our expense commitment.

With that, operator, please can you open up the line to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore ISI.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hello there. Just one quick clarification question on the performance in equities was great. You mentioned pretty much across the board, do you think there's any seasonality, any one-time events, block trades, anything like that that would lift such good performance in the quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: There wasn't anything particularly noteworthy in terms of one-time events. It was really quite broad particularly in derivatives.

In cash the performance was I would say solid year over year because we saw strength in the Americas this year but we had strength in Europe last year. And I think the first-quarter 2014 wasn't particularly strong, so I think we were flatter a little bit with a relative comparison but it was a really strong absolute and we think probably strong relative performance.

GLENN SCHORR: And maybe this is a related question but I'm not sure which line it would flow through. From what I understand you guys and others have been pushing or talking with your prime brokerage clients to help improve ROAs in the business. Is part of that flowing through and just better equity performance, more business with clients?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, this is where it would be. I wouldn't say it's a driver, but we are as you said and the whole industry is looking to work with clients to optimize the use of the balance sheet and improve returns.

So we've seen some of that. But I wouldn't say it was a key driver.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, switching gears in Jamie's letter he talked about mentioning the need to push the new G-SIB rules to the product and the client level. And it piqued my curiosity.

I'm just curious, how different is that from what you've already done? In other words each step of the way you've been early in adopting and pushing out to the desk level higher capital charges. Does this just mean more of the same meaning, higher capital charge, higher capital charge or is there something different there that you need to do?

MARIANNE LAKE: It is more of the same. Obviously G-SIB took on a slightly heightened focus when we had some doubling happen in the proposal in December.

So we've always been measuring and monitoring and tracking G-SIB at a very granular level. But we are obviously on a path now to aggressively manage it which means that we are going to be just a little bit more focused on that constraint, not uniquely also with advanced capital, standardized limits, balance sheet caps, the like. So it's more of the same, honestly, than just a heightened focus on this given the US proposal and given the impact of at least at this point FX translations.

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: And different than RWA it affects certain products more than others. And we pointed out nonoperating deposits, stuff like that. Certain businesses more than others we've pointed out clearing and certain clients more than others we've pointed out financial institutions.

So it's just kind of a multi-variant theme. It's not mystical and we're actually already starting to reprice some of these businesses to get an adequate return on G-SIB capital. And we're seeing other people do that too.

MARIANNE LAKE: That's right. We may be in a different position with G-SIB but others are leverage constrained. And just generally speaking we are starting to see a lot more discipline around balance sheet and pricing is following somewhat generally.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MARIANNE LAKE: We can put Mike back in the queue later.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hi, good morning Marianne. I was wondering on net interest income, do you have an outlet for how the net interest income dollars could trend from here? Assuming that you don't get much help from higher rates what are the key drivers and what's your outlook for NIM and NII dollars for the year?

MARIANNE LAKE: So again assuming for a second that rates don't rise until the backend if not the end of the year and we can come back to that if you like we would expect our NII dollars to be stable to slightly up because we're still seeing growth in our interest-earning assets. Obviously this quarter we were down some on day count, it was a big chunk of the quarter-on-quarter reduction.

So we're really going to see the biggest lift in NII when we do see interest rates rise and we'll see when that is. And similarly on our NIM we would expect NIM to be stable particularly given as we talked about what we've seen dilute our NIM more particularly over the course of the last year or two has been this significant increase in cash and we're going to see some of that at least stabilize and turn as we start to reduce nonoperating deposits. So we should see our NIM relatively stable and again start to rise when rates rise.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. On the CCAR do you expect any potential surcharges on the CCAR to come out when the US final rules on SIFI buffers come out?

And in addition to that have you learned anything from the CCAR in terms of the transparency of the process? Is there progression in terms of the back-and-forth with the regulators as you go through the CCAR process and their expectations?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay, so taking your first point, Erika, obviously I don't know the next time we're going to in all likelihood get CCAR instructions including the rules and the minimums is likely to be some time towards the end of this year for the next CCAR cycle as we get prepared to deliver that. So all I can say is what you know which is clearly the door was left open for the minimum to be increased or potentially to include some element of the surcharge.

We're hopeful that that won't be the case because we would say the surcharge should be carried in baseline times to be used in stress and to have all firms end up well-capitalized afterwards. But I have no more insight than that for you.

With respect to the dialogue with the Fed look, it's definitely much, much further progressed than it was two years and three years ago and every year it gets better in terms of the bilateral conversations and it's constructive. I don't think, however, you could today or will likely ever be able to characterize it as transparent and clear, maybe potentially by design in terms of understanding or being able to reconcile exactly what their models do and what their results are driven by. So I won't be able to clarify for you what changed in their results or what differs between ours and theirs but the dialogue itself is definitely more constructive and more bilateral and more continuous.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. The drop in the adjusted expenses I think about 3% year over year came in a little bit better than we were thinking while revenues were also a little bit better. Obviously you've got a lot of cost-saving programs underway that you mentioned earlier in the call and at Investor Day but should we think that maybe you're running ahead of schedule or that the cost saves could be more or is it just lumpiness as we go quarter to quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: Look, I think that the best way to answer that is that we are still firmly with our guidance of adjusted expenses being $57 billion plus or minus by the end of the year or for the year, sorry. Obviously we will always try and outperform that but I wouldn't characterize one quarter as a change in that guidance at this point.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just separately obviously a big company out there announced it's exiting most of its banking assets and just wondering if there's any interest or appetite within your Commercial Bank to bulk up the acquisition there in terms of asset purchases versus a complete company?

MARIANNE LAKE: So look the most important thing obviously in all of that is that we were delighted to be able to partner with the large company on their strategic transformation and that's the most important thing about that transaction for us. I'm not going to comment specifically on whether or what JPMorgan would be interested in in terms of asset purchases. We're much more focused on partnering strategically with the company.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

CHRIS SPAHR, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi, this is Chris Spahr on behalf of Mike Mayo. I just have a question relating to your CET1 ratio guidance. Do you give any kind of guidance on the Tier 1 leverage ratio by the end of this year given your CET1 of 11%?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, we haven't given any specific guidance, Chris.

CHRIS SPAHR: Do you think there is any way you will be able to kind of manage that ratio higher in the context of this year's CCAR?

MARIANNE LAKE: In the context of the CCAR we just had?

CHRIS SPAHR: Yes.

MARIANNE LAKE: We expect our -- it's a little complicated this year and we sort of articulated it at Investor Day because we're going to move at some point whether it's the third of the fourth quarter to have standardized RWA be our binding constraint. So 11% plus or minus is our target on CET1 and that's all we've said.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you and good morning. Marianne you mentioned that Treasury Service revenues were down due to the trade finance revenue area. And I noticed on the balance sheet the trade finance outstandings have dropped meaningfully on a year-over-year basis. Can you share with us what's going on in that line of business?

MARIANNE LAKE: There's a couple of different things. One was a little specific.

We had a portfolio of loans that we held for sale and have subsequently exited from the balance sheet which drives some of it. But in addition just generally a competitive environment and lower demand particularly in Asia.

GERARD CASSIDY: And then second you mentioned that you obviously had a very strong advisory business in the quarter and you gained marketshare of 150 basis points. Do you have a sense of who you took the marketshare from? Was it European investment banks or US?

MARIANNE LAKE: Not specifically, no. I will tell you that while we are obviously delighted with the performance it was a relatively strong market and there were some larger transactions so we're happy with the gains. I can't specifically comment on where it came from.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks and good morning. I just wanted to follow-up on your energy comments.

Could you help us understand what events it was that led to the reserve building? Was it company-specific events in the form of bankruptcies or just something else in your internal ratings migration?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, it's definitely more the latter. So basically if you think about our E&P portfolio in particular when we think about the redetermination somewhat semiannually of the borrowing base and looked at those companies on a client-specific name by name basis there was some contraction in the borrowing base and therefore some downgrades that drive our reserving methodology.

It doesn't mean that we feel that those companies are necessarily in significant difficulty but that's the way the reserving methodology works. And as I said we do this on a client by client basis, we're comfortable with our exposures and clients are looking to manage their own defensive position. So it's not clear that they will necessarily be realized in losses; in fact, if the implied curve rather than flat to long oil prices is in fact how things play out it's possible that there will be very little in the way of credit loss we'd experience.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And just on that last point your view on that is because of a recovery in prices rather than restructuring actions or things that your clients are undertaking. Is that fair or is it a bit of both?

MARIANNE LAKE: Both. Both.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hi, good morning. I just wanted to see if I could just follow-up on the energy point.

Obviously you have the reserving and then you mentioned the 200 basis point impact on spend. I'm wondering if you'd just expand the discussion of energy, are there positive offsets that you're starting to see in the businesses elsewhere, either in terms of whether it's credit or borrowing or investment banking opportunities that may be popping up? Can you summarize the benefit if at this point you can see any positive offsets?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so first of all just on the contraction in spend driven by oil prices it's pretty typical in this part of the cycle that you would see lower energy prices in the first instance drive savings rates up and you see consumer spend for the energy dividend so to speak lag back. So the fact that we saw that happen in the first quarter is not atypical and it doesn't mean that we don't expect the spend to grow and for that energy dividend to ultimately translate into higher spend going forward. So it's more of a normal timing phenomenon is our expectation but with respect to other activity, yes we saw active equity capital markets with some defensive issuance and generally I think it's a positive overall for the businesses and for the economy.

KEN USDIN: And my follow-up question is just with respect to the security services business you mentioned the change in presentation and then there was the client loss. Is there a way you can help us understand just what the organic growth rate of the business is adjusted for the reclassifications whether it's on a sequential-quarter or a year-over-year basis?

MARIANNE LAKE: Not readily but we can get back to you.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Maybe just go back to the capital ratio issue for a second. You noted that standardized you're at 10.8% and that you still feel that will be your constraining factor by the end of this year.

So if you're already at 10.8% and your target is 11%, I know it's plus or minus, but it does seem like you got three quarters you hit 20 basis points. So is there anything unusual that you're expecting in the coming quarters or is it just you can never know quarter to quarter but all else being equal it looks like you can probably hit 11% if not better. Is that a fair way to think about it?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, nothing specific to call out in the second half of the year. And we should hit 11% if not a little better, yes.

JIM MITCHELL: And as you've looked at the surcharge, at the G-SIB surcharge more the proposal is do you feel better or worse, you feel is there any areas where you think you can pull the lever more significantly to improve that ratio or lower the charge?

MARIANNE LAKE: Look, I would say seven weeks or six weeks or whatever it is after Investor Day that the messaging hasn't really changed which is we have every intention of aggressively managing the score, doing it as we talked about earlier in a very granular way. And we're already working on that and you see that in the most obvious place which is in the reduction already to date in nonoperating deposits.

But we continue to work on all of the things so derivative notional compression, level III assets, financing, obviously we're still thinking about what the response should be in terms of risk intermediation and clearing. And so I think six weeks on from Investor Day the story is the same, we feel we are fully committed to ensuring that we are safely within the 4.5% bucket and we may not stop there but we're only a few months into this.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. Marianne, going back to the reserve build which obviously was done for the oil and gas as you mentioned can you share with us in the Corporate & Investment Bank I know on a total dollar amount relative to the corporation it's not significant but there was a big increase in the nonaccrual loans from 110 to 251 in the quarter. Can you give us some color on what drove that?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I was obviously you noted it from a small base so that's notable. There are two specific transactions or two specific exposures that were moved to nonaccrual.

One of them was moved on a somewhat of a technicality, a sovereign downgrade which we fully expect to recover on. But that is just the way we have to present it and the other smaller piece was one other isolated exposure.

So I wouldn't overthink it right now. It's two exposures and it's $200 million in total.

GERARD CASSIDY: And again that was not oil and gas related obviously, it's in the CIB area that was in the Commercial Bank?

MARIANNE LAKE: The first the sovereign downgrade was did have oil and gas underlying exposure but again it was on a technicality rather than on the fundamentals of the Company. And we fully expect to recover on that.

JAMIE DIMON: Focus on the very, very small number.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. You highlighted the Swiss franc is a tailwind for FICC. Could you may be size that for us?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, I would just say that overall our sense is that the market is neutral relative to the event. We happen to be able to benefit a little from it. Some others will be more neutral and some may have lost.

As these happen regular way in trading businesses and it just happens to be the case that that event and the volatility it drove is good for our client franchise. And I think it really just goes to show you that we're in a business where expertise matters and risk discipline matters and we were able to capitalize on both of those not just for the Swiss franc but also for the other macro events in the quarter.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure. I know that the higher volatility of course would drive higher volumes, I was just talking about the event specifically and if there was some one-time gains involved in that so that we can adjust for a core figure here?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, I wouldn't even characterize them as one-time gains. I would characterize them as one of a number of items that drove our performance in the business.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, fair enough. And then on the energy front a lot of the focus was on the CB and the energy exposure there but you all mentioned that there's exposures in CIB, too. Can you give us may be an update if there was any changes in any of those exposures or loans this quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so overall the total firm the reserve build that we took was a little over $100 billion, 4/5 of which was in the Commercial Bank. So we did experience -- we do all of this on a name-by-name basis, so we did it across our portfolios but the majority was in the CB E&P portfolio.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Market.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. On your deposit discussion about pushing out I think you said during your Investor Day that you would like to get about $3 billion of noncore deposits off the balance sheet and I know you said you hope to make progress in the second quarter. How should we model that out and what type of benefit have you modeled out to the NIM with that $3 billion of deposits?

JAMIE DIMON: It was $100 billion.

MARIANNE LAKE: $100 billion.

PAUL MILLER: $100 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.

MARIANNE LAKE: No worries. $100 billion, I mean look at the end of the day you can see that over the course of the last since whatever the third quarter of 2012 our cash balances grew by a couple hundred billion dollars and that has been a very large contributor to the compression in our NIM, not the only one.

So as we push out the nonoperating deposits we would expect to see that help but remember we're still growing retail deposits. So if you look at this quarter in particular even though we reduced our nonop deposits related to client actions by about $20 billion, the majority of that $24 billion, we have flat deposits so we're continuing to grow the good retail deposits. So I would say it would be a tailwind but it would be a tailwind to a stabilizing and slightly improving NIM outside of rate rises.

PAUL MILLER: And then real quick on your professional services, professional services was down from $2 billion to $1.6 billion. Is that mainly due to some of that legal cost maybe starting to go away from the crisis?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, I'm sorry of the top of my head can't remember the number you're saying. But no, our legal expenses, forget the legal expense that relates to reserves that we've taken and settlements that we reached, our regular way expense for third parties in legal isn't down substantially quarter on quarter or year on year at this point, although at some point it will be.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi, good morning. So Marianne I was hoping that we could dig into the RWA progress that we saw in the quarter and specifically was hoping that you could disaggregate how much of the sequential decline that we saw was a function of the planned mitigation actions and model benefits that you've cited versus actual FX driven declines?

Because assuming that the US dollar strength persists all else equal one could surmise that we should expect RWAs in a long-term context actually coming out below that $1.5 trillion target that you've cited in the past.

MARIANNE LAKE: So specifically with respect to the quarter I would say that the wholesale parameter update -- wholesale credit parameter updates model benefits is about half of the RWA reduction with the other half coming from regular way portfolio run off as well as some reductions in market risk associated with market risk positions, reductions in private equity, reductions in commitment. So some position reductions rather than driven specifically by FX.

Look, we're running above $1.5 trillion now and we said we're going to manage both the advance and standardize to that number over the course of the next couple of years. So if FX or if the currency translation is a tailwind then we would hope to do better but at this point let's get there.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, fair enough. And another question on capital but relating to CCAR. Marianne you've noted on this call and in the past that you don't expect CCAR to be JPMorgan's binding constraint longer term but just given the reduction that we saw in the ask or the need to use the Mulligan in the last exam I was just hoping you could cite some of the planned mitigation actions that you expect to take so that we could see you guys get on the path towards delivering on that 55% to 75% net payout target.

MARIANNE LAKE: So at the moment our CET1 ratio launching into CCAR was below 10%, not the 12% that we expect to run at once we have built our capital to our target level. And so you are right that right now under CCAR Tier 1 leverage was our binding constraint both last year and this year.

And so a combination of our capital strategy around how we think about the issuance of preferred together with balance sheet actions will be how we think about mitigating that limitation in the short to medium term. But ultimately it doesn't change the fact that once we get to our target assuming that is the 12% that we articulated at Investor Day that again we don't think we should be leverage constrained, so yes we're going to work on that obviously and we are continuing to build capital but when we launched into CCAR we weren't at that level.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning. Jamie you warned in your annual letter about the possibility of another flash crash. Yesterday I think Simon Potter at the Fed warned about it and cited HFT as one of the issues.

Larry Summers warned about it about a week ago. Are these warnings going anywhere, are they being translated into action anywhere in the system?

JAMIE DIMON: To give you a little perspective I also spoke in that the banking system is much stronger to start with and every bank in the system is much stronger. So just trying to think through what are the effects of some of these things and we look at it is kind of a warning shot across the bow. What I worry about more is what happens in a stress environment and I think people are paying attention to what's going on in the markets and if there has to be changes down the road there might be some changes that are relevant to that.

NANCY BUSH: Secondly, Marianne a question about Commercial Banking. The returns in Commercial Banking have remained in sort of the high teens over the last number of quarters and it's certainly respectable sort of 17% to 19%. Is there any way those returns improve materially or as rates go up or does that get offset by competitive factors and are we at a normalized level for that business?

MARIANNE LAKE: I think the best way to think about it is through the cycle target that Doug Petno put out at Investor Day which is 18%. So that doesn't mean to say that we will benefit when rates rise in this business and it is very competitive and spreads are compressing and there's a lot of factors going on but through the cycle 18% so we're some years below and some above.

Just the question on core growth and security services outside of presentation changes and client exits is currently in the low single digits. So obviously a little bit muted because we're working on the balance sheet optimization but certainly growing and in the low single digits and in terms of looking at advisory and who we are gaining share from principally European banks.

Okay, no more questions?

OPERATOR: There are no more questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Thanks everybody.

JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150416eb4e000gp
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
16,493 words
   PD
14 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to JPMorgan Chase's fourth-quarter 2014 earnings call. This call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions). We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake. Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

   TD
MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation, which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements, which is at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1, the firm reported net income of $4.9 billion and EPS of $1.19 and a return on tangible common equity of 11% on $23.6 billion of revenue for the quarter. Included in our results was total legal expense of $1.1 billion or approximately $1 billion after tax. In large part an incremental amount for FX.

As we go through the presentation, I will call out other notable items. For your reference, we've included the EPS impact of those here on the front page. In total, they contributed a net positive $0.12 to EPS. So adjusting for legal expense, as well as these items, gives net income of $5.5 billion and an EPS of $1.33 reflecting solid core performance.

I'm going to skip over page 2 and we're going to go straight to the full-year results on page 3. The firm reported record net income of nearly $22 billion and record EPS of $5.29 and a return on tangible common equity of 13% on nearly $98 billion of revenue. Excluding legal expense, which remains elevated, net income for the year was $24 billion and return on tangible common equity 14%.

You can see on the page at the bottom that adjusted expense was $58.4 billion, in line with guidance and down $650 million from the prior year despite the impact of incremental cost control, as well as continuing to invest in our businesses.

A final couple of points for the year, core loan growth was strong at 8% year-on-year and net capital distributions for the year were approximately $10 billion, including record dividends of $6 billion.

Turning to page 4, the firm's fully phased in advanced CET1 ratio was 10.1%, flat to last quarter with earnings and portfolio runoff offset by capital distributions and an increase in risk-weighted assets predominantly driven by higher counterparty credit risk. In terms of 2015 outlook, we expect to add 50 basis points or more to this ratio.

Similarly, the firm's fully phased in standardized ratio not on the page also remained flat at 10.5%. The firm's SLR was 5.6% and the bank's SLR improved to 5.9%. And given the recent FSB proposal, we've added our best estimate of TLAC at approximately 15%, excluding buffers, which will be refined as the rules are finalized.

Moving on to page 5 and before we move into each of the businesses, this quarter, we've changed the presentation of preferred dividends in our lines of business and show the impact here on the page. For the Company, preferred dividends were and continue to be below the line; however, we've historically allocated the cost of preferred stock to the businesses as a net interest expense or a contra revenue with a corresponding positive impact in corporate NII.

In order to have cleaner trends and better peer comparability, we're now presenting preferred dividends below the line for each of our LOBs, which is particularly important given recent increases in preferred issuance. You can see on the slide the change in methodology has no impact on firm-wide financials nor on LOB returns on equity. While LOB revenue, net income and overhead ratios improve, additionally the adjustment affects the contra revenue ratio in the CIB. So from here throughout this presentation and also in the supplement, all numbers in all periods consistently reflect this change.

Moving on to business performance on page 6, the Consumer & Community Bank. The combined businesses generated $2.2 billion of net income for the quarter and an ROE of 16% on nearly $11 billion of revenue. Excluding the impact of losses related to noncore portfolio exits in Card, the ROE was 18%. Consumer & Community Banking continues to deliver strong underlying performance, maintaining our number one ranking in customer satisfaction among largest banks for the third year in a row by ACSI. And in addition, we continue to deepen relationships with our customers. Average deposits were up 8% year-on-year with growth across regions and markets. Record client investment assets were up 13%. Our active mobile customer base was up 22% and credit card sales volume was up 10% on strong new account originations.

Across CCB, we've outperformed our expense targets for the year and have reduced headcount by 12,000 this year exceeding Investor Day guidance by roughly 4,000 and over the last three years, headcount is down approximately 32,000 across the consumer businesses.

Turning to page 7, Consumer & Business Banking. For the fourth quarter, CBB generated net income of $861 million, up 8% year-on-year and an ROE of 31% on improved operating leverage. Net interest income was relatively flat year-on-year, but down slightly quarter-on-quarter on lower deposit margin. For the first quarter of 2015, we expect continued spread compression in CBB deposit margin driven by lower reinvestment rates will drive a modest decline in NII quarter-over-quarter. Noninterest revenue continued to grow, up 6%, across investment, debit and other fees with the addition of approximately 700,000 net new households. And expense was relatively flat with efficiencies self-funding investments.

Finally, in Business Banking, the momentum we have seen in recent quarters continued with loan originations for the quarter of $1.5 billion, up 18% year-on-year. Businesses remain relatively optimistic and banker performance continues to improve.

Mortgage Banking on page 8. Overall Mortgage Banking net income was $338 million for the quarter and a 7% ROE. We reduced expenses for the year by $2.3 billion, outperforming our $2 billion target. Moving to the top of the page, production pre-tax income, excluding repurchase, was slightly positive for the quarter, which was better than guidance on higher volumes and revenue margins. The origination market was more robust due to a strong rate rally, but we estimate it was down about 5% quarter-on-quarter seasonally against which our originations were $23 billion, up 8% quarter-on-quarter, reflecting corresponding share gains in jumbo and conventional.

So this quarter, we increased volumes, we gained approximately 100 basis points of marketshare estimated and realized higher revenue margin. Expenses were flat quarter-on-quarter despite the increase in volumes as we continue to focus on controlling costs.

On to Servicing, net Servicing-related revenue of $624 million was down slightly quarter-on-quarter on lower balances with Servicing expense of $560 million also down slightly. On Real Estate Portfolios, we continue to add high-quality loans to our portfolio. We added another $10 billion this quarter, up from $7 billion last quarter. We recorded net charge-offs of $111 million and reserve releases of $100 million in the non-credit impaired portfolio. Lastly, headcount was down over 7,500 for the year and approximately 22,000 over the last three years.

Moving on to page 9, Card, Merchant Services & Auto net income of $980 million, down 7% year-on-year with an ROE of 20%. If you exclude reserve releases, net income was up 2%. The strong momentum in our business continues with very strong spend, as well as card balance growth of $3 billion in the year. Revenue of $4.5 billion was down 4% year-on-year, but up 1% adjusting for losses related to portfolio exits that went through the quarter's results with an adjusted revenue rate for Card shown on the page of 12.2%, in line with our guidance.

Strong loan and sales growth was offset by spread compression and higher acquisition costs as we continue to add more customers. In 2015, expect the revenue rate to remain at the low end of our target range of 12% to 12.5%. Expense was down 6% year-on-year predominantly driven by remediation costs included in the prior period.

In Card, we led the industry for the 27th consecutive quarter gaining nearly 500 basis points of share during the same period. This quarter, we saw sales growth of 10% driven by enhanced client acquisition and reward strategies.

In Merchant Services, volume was up 13% year-on-year driven by continued strong sales performance and in Auto, results continue to reflect steady growth in new vehicle sales, as well as stable used-car values. This was the 13th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth with average balances up 5% year-on-year. Coming into this year, the pipeline is strong, which reflects continued strength in the Auto market.

Finally on Credit, in Card, we continued to see improvements in early delinquencies and we released $150 million of reserves this quarter. You can see the net charge-off rate adjusted for portfolio exits was down slightly at 248 basis points. In 2015, expect the charge-off rate to decline modestly. For Auto, credit losses were higher on balance growth and as the charge-off rate starts to trend up from historical lows.

Now moving on to page 10 and the Corporate & Investment Bank. CIB reported net income of $972 million and an ROE of 5% on $7.4 billion of revenue for the quarter. Adjusting for legal expense, ROE would have been 11% for the quarter and 13% for the year. In banking, IBCs were $1.8 billion, up 8%. We continue to rank number one in global IBCs per Dealogic, number one in the US and we moved up to number one in EMEA this year.

Record debt underwriting was driven by M&A-related financings. Strong advisory fees for the quarter contributed to the full-year increase, up 24% and equity underwriting fees were down from a strong quarter last year, but in line with the overall decline in market issuance. We continue to [book on] more deals than any other firm for both the quarter and the year and the fee pipeline continues to be strong into 2015 with a favorable environment generally across most products.

Treasury Services revenue was up 3% and lending-related revenue was $264 million, was down $129 million year-on-year given mark-to-market gains in the prior year.

Moving on to Markets revenues of $3.6 billion, down 13% year-on-year, but as guided, excluding business simplification, the core business was down 5%. Fixed Income was $2.5 billion, down 14% excluding business simplification driven primarily by lower results in credit-related and securitized products and with rate markets remaining challenging. However, currencies in emerging markets had a strong quarter with higher volatility leading to increased client activity as our remaining financial commodities business is doing well.

In Equities, we saw strong performance for the quarter, up 25% year-on-year at $1.1 billion. Derivatives was very strong, one of the best fourth quarters in recent years, largely driven by Asia as client activity increased on central bank actions. Cash was solid driven primarily by EMEA on the back of strong ECM results.

With respect to Markets revenues for the first quarter of 2015, business simplification will continue to drive a negative year-on-year variant for the quarter, approximately $500 million or 10% with a corresponding expense decline of approximately $300 million. Security Services revenues of $1.1 billion was up 6% year-on-year, including higher NII on higher average deposits. Assets under custody were $20.5 trillion, flat year-on-year with market appreciation largely offset by a significant client exit. Credit Adjustments & Other shows a loss driven by net CVA losses, as well as the inclusion of nonrecurring DVA/FVA valuation adjustments totaling approximately $200 million.

Moving on to Expenses, total expenses up 14% year-on-year, compensation was down 6% from the fourth quarter of 2013 and down 4% for the year with a comp to revenue ratio for the year of 30%. The increase is driven by noncomp expense primarily by over $900 million of legal expense, as well as higher control-related expenses with those being partially offset by business simplification.

Moving on to Commercial Banking on page 11, this quarter saw net income of $693 million with an ROE of 19% on $1.8 billion of revenue. Revenue was up 4% sequentially and flat year-on-year, excluding the one-time proceeds of $100 million from a lending-related workout that was included in the prior year. Continued yield compression in our lending book, as well as the impact of business simplification is being offset by higher loan and deposit balances.

Quarter-on-quarter, revenues increased on better fee revenue and it was an incredible story for investment banking this quarter with record gross revenue of $557 million, up 11% year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. For the full year, Commercial Banking clients generated $2 billion of investment banking revenues for the firm, reaching our goal. Expense is in line with guidance, slightly higher year-on-year and flat quarter-on-quarter due to the ongoing investment in controls.

In loan balances, we saw an increase of $4.7 billion, our best quarter of growth since 2011, driven by strong performance in our commercial real estate businesses, as well as growth in the C&I portfolio this quarter. Our CRE book has now grown for 15 consecutive quarters and for the quarter grew 4% ahead of the industry. C&I loans grew 3% this quarter, in line with the industry and with pipelines remaining solid. Finally, in terms of credit performance, an exceptional year, another single-digit net charge-off rate for the quarter at 8 basis points and a slight net recovery position for the full year.

Moving on to page 12, a solid quarter in Asset Management with net income of $540 million on $3.2 billion of revenue. Last year included a mark-to-market gain of approximately $100 million. Adjusting for that revenue was up 4%, expense of $2.3 billion was up 3% and net income up 5% on positive operating leverage.

This quarter marks the 23rd consecutive quarter of long-term net inflows at $10 billion driving AUM of $1.7 trillion, up 9% year-on-year and we achieved the number one ranking in 2014 for global net inflows in active long-term mutual funds. We continue to see strength in our multi-asset and fixed income flows and although smaller equity inflows outpaced the industry.

Banking had record loan balances up 11% year-on-year with growth coming from both US and international markets and record deposits up 6%. As reported, client assets of $2.4 trillion were up 2% both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter, but excluding business simplification, client assets would've been up 8% year-on-year.

Lastly, for the full year, we saw continued strong investment performance. This was the second consecutive year of long-term net inflows of over $80 billion, driving a fifth year of record revenue and a second year of record net income with 23% ROE and 29% pre-tax margin. AUM loans and deposits were also records for the year.

Turning to page 13, Corporate and Private Equity. Private Equity reported $107 million of net income primarily driven by Private Equity gains of approximately $450 million, partially offset by a little over $200 million of related goodwill impairments. This past Friday, we completed the spinout of One Equity Partners and the investment professionals have formed a new independent company, OEP Capital Advisors. At the same time, we closed on the sale of a portion of our private equity portfolio to a group of private equity firms. OEP Capital Advisors will continue to manage both the investments we've sold, as well as the investments we've retained and closing this transaction had no significant impact to fourth-quarter financials.

Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $205 million, but remember this is after the impact of the change in how we allocate preferred dividends. Firm NII was $11.3 billion, flat quarter-on-quarter. And finally in Other Corporate, net income was $645 million. Included in this result were tax-related benefits of approximately $500 million, partially offset by a contribution we made to our foundation of approximately $150 million and close to $100 million pre-tax of legal expense.

So to wrap up, 2014 was a record year for both net income and EPS with a 13% return on tangible common equity despite elevated legal expense and despite headwinds from capital markets, mortgage and the low interest rate environment. We maintained excellent customer satisfaction results and we gained share in many of our businesses. Delivered on our commitments, including business simplification, controls and expense discipline and we also met our capital targets for the year while returning $10 billion of net capital to shareholders. So with that, we'll open up to Q&A, operator, if you could open up the line.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Okay, so a couple of questions. One is on the GSIB proposal. Obviously it looks like you're at the 450 over the 7% minimum and I know we can't exactly see, because we don't have all the rules around the short-term wholesale funding rule, but I'm wondering where you line up in that bucket; if you're close to the low end of that range. Is there anything that you could do to move down a bucket?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, Betsy, obviously two things. The first thing is that the most important time period when this is going to matter is when it's in full compliance and through the transition period in 2017 and 2018. So the result in the 450 bucket as we understand it is based on 2013 results, so we have to work over the course of the next three years to make sure we are maximizing every basis point of G-SIB and every dollar of capital to the fullest extent to deliver returns.

So rather say that to move down a bucket, just in general terms, is a fairly significant thing to do just given the types of things that are driving the overall score, but we're not complacent about it. We've worked in extreme granularity to make sure that from the very first basis point that we're certain we're maximizing the return opportunity for that within the context of the bucket we're in. So it would not be a trivial exercise to move down, but we're focused on making sure that we're optimizing the resources that is our most binding constraint.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. It's a bit of a challenge because it's relative to global peers, so how do you run the business -- the follow-on question is how do you run the business when you've been used to trying to gain as much marketshare as you can, but now gaining marketshare works against you on this G-SIFI?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's probably worth mentioning that while we were in or looked like we might be in the highest bucket relative to our peers, there were peers that were in higher buckets and they are not constrained by G-SIB but by CCAR. So it's likely to be the case -- we continue to believe it's likely to be the case that you're going to see the differential in required capital for a variety of reasons not being as wide as might be implied by the G-SIB. And so the key question is whether we're delivering the right shareholder value on the incremental capital, which we clearly think we are and can continue to do.

And so it is a -- we are trying to thread the needle, as you say, about making sure that we are as focused as we can on maximizing the use of that scarce resource, but within the bucket that we end up being, wherever that might be, that our key priority is to deliver the highest ROE and shareholder value we can, particularly in a world where others may be more constrained by balance sheet or leverage. So it is a fine dance and it's what we're working through. We'll obviously keep you updated as we continue to progress our plans.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. I assume we'll hear more on it at Investor Day.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi, Marianne. Just following up on Betsy's questions, your hope is to grow or I guess your expectation is to grow the common equity Tier 1 from the 10.1 today to did you say 50 basis points this year you hope to add to that?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, 50 basis points or possibly more.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And I guess could you give us some sense of what the assumptions embedded in there are in terms of RWA mitigation? I guess Street estimates and earnings and some expectations for capital return and I guess is that pace enough to get to what you see as the new GSIB buffers where it looks to us you might have to be at 11.5, 12. Is it just a timing question that you have time to get to 11.5, 12? If you could just walk through that, it would be helpful. Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay, so let me start at the beginning, which is if you look at our Basel III advanced RWA on the slide, it's just a little over $1.6 trillion. When we were at Investor Day last year, we said that we expected to be able to provide reductions to that by the end of 2015 to get the number closer to $1.5 trillion on the back of model-related benefits, etc. It's still the case that that's the direction we will move in. Whether we get exactly to $1.5 trillion or slightly over will depend on the timing of some of those benefits. But that's directionally where we're going. So call it from a little over $1.6 trillion to a little over $1.5 trillion and we'll give you an update at Investor Day.

With respect to the assumptions, at the end of the day, we generate a lot of capital and if we need to comply more quickly than we intend to do, then we can clearly pull those levers. But we have always over the last couple of years had the approach of wanting to have a reasonable sense of urgency, but a measured pace to getting to where we need to be over the course of a transition period, as well as preserving the optionality to continue to increase dividends and do buybacks. That continues to be generally our philosophy and if you take -- I think I said this before. Don't read anything into this with respect to capital asks or anything else, but if you take analysts' estimates for the next two, three years, take a $1.5 trillion or even slightly higher RWA basis, you can continue to add 50 basis points of capital a year, as well as have meaningful buyback and capital distribution capacity and 50 basis points a year from a little over 10% over three or four years gets you to the other side of 11.5%.

So that's just an illustration of the capacity we have; not necessarily a commitment in terms of glide path, but that's the basis upon which we feel like we will be able to add 50 basis points this year, which is, on a fully phased in advanced basis, which is we think an appropriate glide path.

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: And we haven't really started to manage [E-SIFI], which we're going to do too now.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just a follow-up on that is on TLAC. You mentioned in some of the notes here that you might fill any potential shortfall to the current TLAC with additional common equity Tier 1, which I assume you mean as opposed to kind of debt issuance or preferred. Just wondering why you think that would be the best approach since you might already be building set one for a GSIB buffer.

JAMIE DIMON: John, she didn't say that.

MARIANNE LAKE: John --.

JAMIE DIMON: We're going to meet our common Tier 1 with the buffer we think is appropriate and we're going to fill the rest of TLAC with the debt, subordinate debt and preferred we need to.

MARIANNE LAKE: I think, John, if there's something you're looking at that we've confused you, I apologize for that. For the purpose of clarity, we expect to grow into our GSIB buffer, which will be excluded from TLAC with common equity and whatever the gap may be when the rules are finalized on TLAC, somewhere between nothing and something more meaningful, that's likely to be in debt issuance.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, got it. That's what I thought. I was just looking at that footnote 10 on page 20. Maybe just we could take a look at that afterwards.

MARIANNE LAKE: I apologize. We'll take a look at that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous Research.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. Just wanted to talk about expenses and initially focus in on the litigation charge of $1 billion after-tax. It's pretty clear, as you said, that the bulk of it goes to the Investment Bank and that it's FX as you said. But should this give us a sense that you now feel that it's reasonable -- that you have reasonable and probable basis to think in terms of what your settlement would be say with the DOJ or are there other elements that drove the increment?

MARIANNE LAKE: So Guy, what the reserves that we have taken in the quarter represent is our best estimate based upon facts and circumstances as we know them at the end of the quarter with respect to ongoing dialogue and investigations, but they are not concluded. So as much as we would like to, we can give you no assurances with respect to the final conclusion and that's really all we can say about where we are on the FX matter.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. And then more broadly on expenses, just given that we've seen another decline in net interest margin that we've got a flattening yield curve environment and quite a bit of sluggishness elsewhere, and of course all the regulatory capital requirements that continue to build, should we expect that you'll revisit your $58 billion-ish expense target in some way to bring that meaningfully down?

MARIANNE LAKE: Just one quick thing on NIM before I talk about expenses. We don't manage to NIM. NIM can be reasonably volatile purely as a feature the amount of cash that we have on our balance sheet. What you saw this quarter in terms of NIM, which was a 5 or 6 basis point decline, whether you are looking at firm or core, is in very large part driven by incremental cash balances of close to $50 billion.

JAMIE DIMON: Which (inaudible) there for days.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right. Some of which is there for days, some of which is accretive from an NII perspective, albeit modestly. So I think the more important measure, for us anyway, quarter-over-quarter is that our NII was flat, but flat and then just in terms of the flattening yield curve, we are more geared towards a short-end rates move and we're still expecting that to happen in the second half of the year. And so what really matters for us is Fed funds rate notwithstanding the overall yield curve.

With respect to expenses, yes, we will give you more updates at Investor Day, but I can continue to reiterate what we've said in the past, which is we would continue to expect to push our adjusted expense absolute dollars downwards over the course of the next several years and in combination with hopefully an improving economy and better interest rates move towards the 55% plus or minus, but 55% overhead ratio over the medium term. So you should expect our adjusted expenses in 2015 to be down, but we continue to have, albeit that we've reached a peak in the second half of the year, we continue to have elevated cost of controls and some of that leverage will be more in 2016 and 2017 than in 2015.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I'm following up on the expense question. If you look at slides 2 and 3, it looks like your adjusted efficiency ratio of 61% in the fourth quarter and 60% for the year got worse from 59% either the prior quarter or prior year. So it's gone the wrong direction and I thought you said that you had some peak in costs in midyear and I hear what you're saying about guidance at Investor Day and adjusted expenses in 2015 down, but can you give any more ins and outs on why you think the efficiency ratio on a core basis should improve?

MARIANNE LAKE: So a little bit of what's driving the efficiency ratio in the second half versus the first half is seasonality in revenues and year-on-year revenues were down slightly. So obviously it's a little bit elevated relative to a 59% to 60% ratio, but obviously the absolute dollars are on a downward trend. Hopefully what we're going to see in combination over the course of the next year or two is we will continue to look at efficiency in our control spend. As I say, we're going to be looking at that in 2015 relative to the exit 2014 rate, but you're going to see more of that leverage in 2016 and 2017. We'll continue to bring mortgage costs down, cost within the branches down, but offsetting against that hopefully we'll have stronger performance in some of our businesses and show some expense growth. So overall trending down, but revenues are part of the story and they were down slightly year-on-year.

MIKE MAYO: It's been three years of stalled progress with overall efficiency. I know you have some of your reasons with regulatory costs. You mentioned 2016 and 2017 benefits, but can investors see an improvement in efficiency expenses for revenues in 2015?

MARIANNE LAKE: So Mike, we'll give you the lowdown of that at Investor Day. You will see absolute reduction in dollars and we'll give you the outlook for the efficiency ratio then.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. You had some good loan growth in consumer and in particular credit card in the fourth quarter. I'm just wondering how much of that is normal seasonality versus maybe some strengthening underlying demand for the consumer.

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would say a bit of both actually. So obviously, as you articulate, we do see seasonality, but we did reach an inflection point during the year where we're starting to see a little bit more demand anyway for credit extension, but I would say our outlook for Credit Card outstandings growth for 2015 is modest, low single digit growth, not higher than that. So a little bit of both, but we are flattered by seasonality in terms of the fourth quarter.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, then just separately in terms of the sharp decline in energy in general and I guess oil specifically, how do we think about some of the puts and takes with your customer base? Obviously, this should be good for the consumer, maybe mixed for corporates and institutional. There might be some risk to certain countries. Like how should we think about this holistically and how do you try and stay on top of this?

MARIANNE LAKE: So JPMorgan, taking it in three pieces, yes, we think it's very good for the consumer on balance and also for the economy on balance despite the strengthening dollar, so we think that the consumer spend, consumer even credit extension is likely to be positive as a result. From a trading perspective, there are pluses and minuses. The oil price volatility contributed to the softer quarter in the credit space, but was helpful as it related to the current season commodity space. So in fact, net-net neutral to maybe even slightly favorable. And then with respect to our traditional credit exposure to the sector, it's about 5% of our overall credit exposure. It's well secure, top of the capital structure where it's a name-by-name analysis that we do and we feel comfortable with where we are right now. It's a cyclical business and we're expecting downgrades, but we're not facing any meaningful issues in the face right now. But overall, oil a reasonable positive for the economy and consumers, so for JPMorgan from a financial perspective a modest issue, possibly more negative.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. My primary question is there's clearly been a lot of ink spilled recently in conversations again about a potential breakup of JPMorgan, especially relative to the higher capital buffers that could come from the Fed. And I guess, Jamie, could you remind us of how you're thinking about the benefits of keeping the franchise consolidated for the shareholders versus some of the conversation that investors are having today about breaking up or shrinking the bank in order to step down on your capital buffers?

JAMIE DIMON: So first of all, I dispute the fact that some investors -- some people wrote about it as a possibility because of excess capital and it's true; you have to hold more capital, all things being equal, it will reduce your returns. But even the people who wrote about that talk about the superior franchises, the benefits of synergies, the good things the Company brings to bear. So the first way to look at a business first and foremost has been and always will be what you do for customers, not what you do for yourself and your own returns, etc. and on the customer franchise in every business we're gaining share. We have good returns, we've got good marketshares, we've got good customer sat levels. The synergies are huge, both expense and revenue synergies, etc. and some, not all, disappear under the various schematics of a breakup or something like that, but that's number one.

And the question is now you are burying extra capital, how bad is that relative to that. And for the most part, we've been able to manage that. We've talked about products repricing and managing G-SIFI and managing CCAR and managing LCR and managing SLR and we're going to maintain the franchise, manage it and we still think we can get good returns. There's a point at which the capital drag would be so high that you may want to consider alternatives, but just remember they are not simple. Like anything you do, every company will have to have cash management, global trade ability, every company general ledgers and HR things and data centers and nerve data centers and cyber security and it isn't that simple a process. But so far, the Company has earned good returns in all those businesses throughout this crisis and I'm going back 2010, 2011, 2012 and that's a sign of stability. In fact, even Mike Mayo had a report, which there is a slide in it that shows the volatility of returns and that we were among the lowest with the better returns. So that is proving it. The model works from a business standpoint and yes, we'll have to carry more capital and we'll manage that over time.

MARIANNE LAKE: Erika, just to add to that, we're still in a period of flux as it relates to broadly rules, not just capital rules and we're in a period of flux as it relates to the competitive environment and it would be, for us, it would be premature to take big strategic decisions that we don't think would add shareholder value in what is a very challenging influx and cyclical low for the environment. So we preserve optionality. We think we're generating significant shareholder value, significant synergies and any discount could erode regardless.

JAMIE DIMON: And remember the capital stuff is not an element -- what they are doing now is not a sign of riskiness; this Company has been a fortress company, it has delivered declines and its diversification is the reason why it's had less volatility of earnings and was able to go through the crisis and never lost money ever, not one quarter. So in the real-life crisis, we did fine and in any future crisis, we're going to do fine. There are a reason you have big global multinational banks and they serve big global multinational, including governments. This Company moves $6 trillion to $10 trillion a day; you're not going to do that as a small bank and you're not going to syndicate out of a $20 billion bridge loan and you can't do certain things globally in 20 countries if you aren't in 20 countries. So you've got to figure out what model you have and does it make sense and it's not necessarily comparable to all other companies. So our model makes sense because you've seen the returns in it.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Understood. And just a follow-up question to that, Marianne, if we look at the GSIB scoring process, not the proposed Fed process and we think about the five pillars that drive the buffers, it seems like if we look at publicly available data that where JPMorgan really sticks out is under the complexity pillar. Is there any way to move that down without giving up significant meaningful revenue and is that the bucket of focus in terms of potentially managing buffers from here?

MARIANNE LAKE: So you're right; the complexity bucket does stick out. Just for what it's worth, we're looking at each bucket and we're looking at it at a very granular level because obviously we need to look at the whole thing in combination and the complexity bucket -- Jamie said it I think earlier. If he didn't, I'll just repeat it. OTC derivative notionals drives a large chunk of it. Clearly, we're going to do everything we can in terms of netting and housekeeping and everything to reduce that. But to reduce that meaningfully is to have a meaningful impact on our client flow business. Level 3 assets is the second piece and obviously to the degree that those things are -- by definition, they are less liquid and so as a result --.

JAMIE DIMON: But that does not make them bad.

MARIANNE LAKE: That does not make them bad. They are just less liquid and as a result, we obviously will take a look at whether or not there's opportunity to reduce that. But, again, it's also relative to market size and then, finally, our AFS portfolio, which to have that in a complexity bucket is not intuitive to all of us and over time that may reduce but right now it's a very core part of how we think about structuring the interest rate risk management of our balance sheet. So we're going to look at it, but we're going to get very, very granular and there's no silver bullet.

JAMIE DIMON: I would guess that over years we can drive it down without damaging the franchise.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right. It's about looking at the first 10, 20 basis points, not the last 3 or 4.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Understood. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr, Evercore.

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi, thanks. Can we revisit the energy conversation for a sec? I mean in my experience when any asset class falls this much so quickly, it's usually pretty bad and I heard your comments and I completely agree that it's great for the consumer and net-net positive, but am I doing the math right? If it's 5% of your outstandings, is that on the $743 billion of loans (multiple speakers)?

JAMIE DIMON: You mean commercial?

GLENN SCHORR: Commercial, okay. Because what I want to get at is you made a comment it's 5% of outstandings; a lot of it is secured. I'm sure you have some reserves against it. It's just -- it seems like an odd thing. I know it's early and we'll see if it stays down here, but it seems like a big deal and yet it doesn't seem like a big deal to you guys. So I just want to make sure that we talk about what your exact exposures are and why you feel better than most people I talk to.

MARIANNE LAKE: So our exposures are about $46 billion, about 5% of our traditional Credit portfolio. About 70% of it is investment grade, about two-thirds of it is in the sort of CIB, so these are large, well-capitalized companies. The other third is in the Commercial Bank. Name by name, we understand what that looks like. These are asset-based loans, top of the capital structure, names we know and we're going to see downgrades and we're not suggesting that there isn't going to be some stress and we don't know where oil may bottom, but, yes, we do have reserves. We have reserves that are based upon a long history of data that includes cycles. We've seen cycles before like this and so we'll take downgrades, maybe we may need to take more reserves, but it doesn't feel like it's a very significant issue or an imminent series of charge-offs right now.

JAMIE DIMON: For us. There will be companies that are more invested in oil that may have different issues and then there's a secondary effect, which obviously you all can predict like Russia, Venezuela. So Russia, we have exposure; Venezuela, virtually none and other countries. And then there's another secondary effect. As you talked about, commercial or even consumer real estate in Dallas, Denver, Houston, as you saw in 1986 and 1989 and those are all slight negatives, but not again -- for us, they are not going to be material. We're very well-diversified and for us, you have the other side. In general, consumer credit would be better not worse and you can argue and I don't want to spend too much time on it that even retail would be better. There are a whole bunch of other beneficiaries of this change of credits. So some will be worse and some will be better, so net-net for us, it's not that big a deal. It's a perfectly legitimate thing for you all to be concerned about for companies, which are very concentrated in oil or even commercial real estate companies concentrated in oil areas. That's not something that we need to worry about.

MARIANNE LAKE: But we're watching it closely. To Jamie's point, we're paying attention to our Real Estate Portfolios in those geographies, so there's going to be overall sector and geographical differences to how this plays out and we're paying attention to that.

JAMIE DIMON: I'll give you an example of diversity helps.

GLENN SCHORR: Yes, I appreciate that.

JAMIE DIMON: Diversity helps. Yes.

GLENN SCHORR: The only related follow-up I have is I don't know if the same thing is happening in oil. I know in and around October 15 when we had wild swings in the 10-year, people talked about less liquidity at the banks being a partial contributor. I'm curious to see if you think there's something to do with that on the oil side too because everybody's been downsizing commodities. And then the bigger question is does anybody care about it, are the regulators watching and paying attention and do you think some of this is contributing to the bigger volatile swings we're seeing?

MARIANNE LAKE: On the first point, I think there's probably some truth to the less Liquidity, but it's more about oversupply and lack of global growth stimulating demand than it is I think a liquidity story from a capital markets perspective. Sorry, Jamie, you were going to --?

JAMIE DIMON: I would just add that when you look at -- I'm a little surprised that people are so surprised when commodities move like this. Commodities have moved like this my whole life and obviously there's supply and demand imbalance and Marianne mentioned that the United States supply has gone up by 5 million barrels a day over the last five or six years. People were a little surprised at the production that was positive out of Libya and Iran and Iraq and some other places. A lot of people need oil revenues, but the other thing that surprised people was the slightly increased demand. I say slightly out of China and some other places and the other one that surprised people is OPEC. Instead of OPEC making some kind of move to reduce supply, they didn't. But, to me, all commodities have had that kind of volatility and oil has had even more volatility, so in the oil business, you've got to prepare for something like that. That is the way it's going to be and that's the way it's going to be for the rest of your life and yes, speculations, inventory and all those things may affect it in the short run.

Remember there is a fulcrum point at which oil, the marginal dollars that are going to be produced and I think our economists say it's about $75 oil, deep drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and around the world and one day it will recover to that because the world still will use more oil and need more oil, etc. and in the meantime, you've got to manage around the volatility and I don't think any of that had to do with trading, none of it. It had to do with fundamental supply/demand imbalances and people getting prepared for it and taking views on -- and not us. I mean I'm talking about oil companies and you've read about countries who've hedged it and countries who didn't and companies who hedged it and companies who didn't and I think it is a legitimate concern about liquidity in markets that when we have volatile markets or violent markets how much liquidity will remain, but I think there you're talking more about -- what you saw a little bit in treasuries, but more about credit and it's possible; we just don't really know. We're a little worried about it, but we will be there hopefully making healthy margins for our clients when the time comes.

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, thanks both.

OPERATOR: Matt Burnell, Wells Fargo Securities.

MATT BURNELL, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: Good morning. Marianne, I just wanted to follow up on some of the regulatory discussion that we've had. You mentioned back in December that you felt that even though at the 11.5% buffer there may not be as big a difference in terms of capital requirements between you and some of your US peers as the initial numbers may initially indicate. It sounded like that may have been a focus on the short-term wholesale funding buffer, which obviously hasn't been released. You mentioned in December you felt that that would be around 50 basis points in terms of at least a starting point for you all. Is it your sense that there could be calibrations above and below your level of 50 basis points or do you think at this point it could be a blanket number across all of the big banks?

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously, we need to get clear on what the final rules and calculation looks like, but I don't see it being a blanket number. I think it's pretty evident that it's intended to be at least measured relative to the size -- it's the one measure that's not measured relative to a marketshare, but relative to the size of your operation. So consequently, depending upon how the math works out, it could be a differentiator for other people. But my comments were not necessarily driven by whether or not somebody else was going to be more punitive, more penalized by short-term wholesale funding, but by the fact that GSIB hasn't been and is unlikely to be the binding constraint for some of our competitors. For some of those, it's CCAR stress; for some, it's leverage under CCAR stress. And as a result, they already are running at or above the levels that may be implied and that may continue to increase.

So here we have a situation where the transition period, the glide path is a four-year period. We're at 10.1 looking to put a glide path together that measures all of our objectives over the next few years where others are at or approaching 11%. So we will see obviously how that plays out in the medium term or in the short term I should say. Certainly in the short term we have a reasonably level playing field. The competitive landscape is changing and we're working very hard to make sure we're maximizing the return on every dollar we have.

JAMIE DIMON: Right, and the reason it went from 2.5 to 4 wasn't because of short-term wholesale funding; it was because they doubled -- they basically doubled the number under a new methodology. And so -- and I think when you spoke of 50 basis points of buffer, you weren't talking about a short-term wholesale funding buffer, you were talking about a buffer over the required number to handle volatility.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so the buffer, yes, totally volatility mainly AOTI-driven. The 50 basis points is the best estimate of what the short-term wholesale contribution --.

JAMIE DIMON: Added to it, yes. That is a GSIB requirement; that's not a buffer.

MARIANNE LAKE: But we'll see. My view is it's not a blanket though, so you could see some people differentiated in that sense.

MATT BURNELL: Fair enough. And then, Marianne, just for a follow-up, in terms of your outlook for GDP, I think in December you also mentioned that you expected around 3% GDP growth is your operating assumption. A little stronger in the second half than the first half. Given your comments on when you think rates are going up, it doesn't sound like that has changed very much, but given your conversations about oil and some of the other growth numbers that have come out, has that changed very much?

MARIANNE LAKE: So obviously, if you get sort of granular --.

JAMIE DIMON: We've moved it to 3.1.

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously if you get granular to different specific countries, we may have a different answer, but as a general matter, no. As a general matter for the US 2015 over 2014, we're calling for 2.5% and globally closer to 3%.

MATT BURNELL: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning. Jamie, you were very clear on the success of the global franchise that you guys have built and the success that you've been having with it. Is there any evidence that you're seeing some pricing increases or you can generate some pricing increases because of this franchise? And if not yet, what do you think it's going to take where you'll be able to really get some better pricing because of the value of the franchise that you present to your customers?

JAMIE DIMON: It's a tough question to answer. We have seen some pricing changes in trade finance a little bit in prime broker, not really in credit, but I do think you're going to see some of it in credit. So over time, that's not because of JPMorgan, that's just because the market is going to reprice some of these things that are more expensive to do and we do expect that will happen somewhat over time. And remember, the other thing which is really important is we manage this by client, so you can actually do a better job under LCR, G-SIFI, CCAR by client and not change pricing, just change mix. So we're working 100 different ways to figure out how to get good returns for shareholders while doing a good job for clients. And remember, we have more options to do that. So whenever we talk to a client, they are going to want some of our balance sheet capability and they may be willing to do other business with you to make sure they get it. Even if the pricing doesn't change, it might be good for us.

GERARD CASSIDY: And then as a follow-up, in the Corporate & Investment Bank, the world now has been operating under the Volcker rules since July of 2014. Can you share with us is there any secular trends that you're seeing because of that? And I noticed that your compensation expense as a percentage of revenue was a real low 27% versus 35% a year ago. Is that reflective of the changes because of the Volcker rule?

JAMIE DIMON: So let me address the Volcker rule in general. So we have accommodated the Volcker rule, which we have to do in private equity and investments in hedge funds and Marianne mentioned that we closed the sale of a couple billion dollars of private equity stuff and even the CLO issue is a very temporary thing. The only question to CLOs is should people be forced to sell it -- they are all going to run off in three to seven years. So the only question the bank -- and that's not a material issue to us. We're going to accommodate that.

The other thing that's important about Volcker now is the remaining one, how it affects market-making and obviously there the clients are going to be concerned. Do you have good market-making? There are all these rules around it. We're accommodating those, reporting client demand, aged inventory, different ways of reporting volatility and trading and now you have capital liquidity. So all the trading is to try to make it safer, but also so people can make markets and we hope at the end of the day that will happen. If there needs to be adjustments, it's going to be because you clients are going to say this isn't working for us.

The only other thing I'll mention about liquidity, spreads are the same in credit, but the size you can trade in is much smaller, which to me is an early indicator if something goes wrong you're going to have a gap out in spreads quicker and wider than you might have before. But at the end of the day, we hope to be able to be a good market-maker, earn a fair return for shareholders and obviously we got to -- we have to apply Volcker and all the other regulations to it.

MARIANNE LAKE: And I think the thing to think about when you look at the comp to revenue ratio just for the purposes of clarity is that if you look at the fourth quarter of last year, excluding DVA and FVA, it was about closer to 26%, so closer to in line year-over-year. And that's evident when you look at the full-year ratio last year of 31% to 30%. So we're at the low end of our range at 30% but within the range relative to the performance and there was a big negative impact in the CIB on a revenue basis last year with FVA/DVA.

JAMIE DIMON: And I should say that we've always allocated capital to the investment bank and we've had SVA-adjusted returns and stuff like that. So as you allocate more capital, all things being equal, that number comes down a little bit. So we've been disciplined in trying to do that properly.

OPERATOR: Steven Chubak, Nomura.

STEVEN CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Hi, good morning. So first question I have is on actually the debt capital markets business. Clearly, the results were quite impressive in the quarter. Certainly better than what the public proxy suggested and I was hoping you could give some additional color as to what drove this strength and then maybe how that informs your outlook in 2015 given that, on the last earnings call, Marianne, you noted that there could be some pressure on that business certainly going into next year or now this coming year?

MARIANNE LAKE: I think if you look at the 2015 dynamic, there's going to be three principal things. 2014 was a year of larger deals. 2015 has still got a good pipeline, so we're expecting to have a reasonably strong at least start to the year and probably a strong year and it's very driven in the fourth quarter and likely to continue to be so by sort of M&A-related financings. So the downside we talked about is just less maturities to be refinanced, but nevertheless some, but we're going to continue to have support from the M&A space, which looks set to be fairly strong in 2015. So you've got some puts and takes, but what we think is going to be a solid to good year in 2015, maybe not a record, but certainly a good year.

JAMIE DIMON: And so JPMorgan maintained a number one share in global investment grade, number one share in global high yield, number one share in loan syndication, which we hope to maintain next year too and those are very powerful positions to have.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Certainly. Switching gears for a moment just back to the capital discussion, I just wanted to get a better understanding as to what drove the RWA inflation in the coming quarter. It sounded as though it was really primarily a function of counterparty credit risk inflation. I just wanted to get a better sense as to whether that was driven by some of the pressures on the corporates in the oil and energy space and also whether your $1.5 trillion target that you reaffirmed, whether that does contemplate the potential risk for further inflation in the coming quarters if those pressures continue.

MARIANNE LAKE: So just, first of all, I think to put it into context, I think that the RWA growth was $12 billion, so nevertheless a growth, but not a huge number. A chunk of it was regular weight CDA, which, yes, in part has got to do with just normal market dynamics right now as spreads wider and volatility higher, but a chunk of it is unrelated to that. As we look forward to the end of next year at 1.5, and which just to be clear I think I said 1.5 or maybe slightly higher, but nevertheless in the law of big numbers, the same trajectory. It's more at risk from just the timing of our ability to execute on granular segmented models, model approvals internally and with regulators than necessarily any sort of market dynamic, notwithstanding that that will factor in. So I would say the bigger risks to achieving that are less than the market pricing impacts on CDA, but more the ability for us to get the right timing of those model benefits.

JAMIE DIMON: And I think like two-thirds are models and one-third is runoff of stuff we know is going to happen. And the other thing, as Marianne mentioned, the advanced where we're 10.1%, the standardized were 10.5% and yes, the advanced will change -- if spreads gap out, advanced will go up, but standardized won't. And eventually we think standardized is going to become the binding constraint, not advanced.

STEVEN CHUBAK: Okay, understood. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks, good morning. My question was on the Consumer & Community Banking business. There are a couple of moving pieces this quarter with the sale of the card results, but also underneath that it looked like a couple of the fee-related areas might have been a little soft. I was just wondering if you can try to disaggregate that for us and was there anything that was also more of a one-time in nature or seasonal about those businesses this quarter.

MARIANNE LAKE: So obviously, we talked about the card portfolio exits driving some revenue decline, also some elevated credit charge-offs. We've been experiencing, and I think we've guided to the low end of our 12.5% revenue rate range. We guided to that last quarter or the quarter before and at 12.2%, we're in that range and what we're experiencing is spread compression is largely offsetting the strong interchange and other fee growth from the volume, but when you acquire new customers and you pay the premium to acquire new customers that gets amortized through your results in the first year. So in years when you're net acquiring new customers, you will have a small net drag on your fees and on your revenue rate resulting from amortizing those premiums for the benefit of those strong relationships and the increased outstandings and spend sales volume you get in future years. So we've been on a journey for the last two years and we continue to be on it where there is some impact associated from the fact that we are net acquiring new customers, each of which we believe returns hurdle for us or more than hurdle for us, so is accretive over a period.

KEN USDIN: Okay. So it's a today versus tomorrow thing. And then on a follow-up, coming back to the energy discussion, you mentioned that it would be net to the consumer business and I just wanted to ask you to flesh that out for us. As you think about the benefits that you'd expect to get from the decline in oil prices, is it growth, is it spend, is it credit? How would you disaggregate that and give us an understanding of either magnitude or time to see that benefit?

JAMIE DIMON: I wouldn't spend too much time trying to build this into your models if I were you, but it is quite clear that when you add $800 a year to the consumer's cash flow statement that consumers on average spend most of that and I think you're seeing it in spend and you're seeing it in car sales and you're seeing it in retail spend, you're seeing it -- and it's also quite clear it helps consumers, it helps their credit broadly. We're not going out and saying that we're going to reduce credit costs and auto, card and a bunch of stuff by 10 or 15 basis points, but I'm just saying you know it's going to be there. Just like you know it was there on the flipside where people spent a lot of time talking about how much gas prices are hurting consumers and why sales are down at Walmart and Family Dollar Store, etc. This is just the flipside of that.

MARIANNE LAKE: And if you just looked at the consumer spending statistics, if you look at fourth-quarter annualized up 4.7% is the best consumer spend data since 2003. So it's already taking effect in consumer spend and disposable income is -- as you say, we're already expecting new car sales to grow next year, but all of this is going to support the continued strong trends we've seen in consumer.

KEN USDIN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jim Mitchell, Buckingham Research.

JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP: Good morning. Just want to follow up on the card fee income discussion. If you looked at your new accounts opened year-over-year, you were flat. You're starting to seem -- you seem like you're starting to lap that higher amortization of acquisition costs. So is it fair to assume that we are at least getting closer to an inflection point where we're going to see fee incomes more track more closely with growth in spend or is there something else going on there?

MARIANNE LAKE: So you're right; we're close to lapping the acquisition cost dynamic not this quarter, but in the near future, but what you are going to continue to see is that we have a portfolio that is in runoff and as those loans run off, they were loans that were higher APR, higher rate loans than the ones that we're originating right now and as a result, you're going to continue to see some spread compression in 2015 again to which you're going to see strong interchange. So I would say, yes, ultimately and in the fullness of time, you're going to start to see the interchange growth outpace the spread compression, but for a period of time, they are going to be somewhat of a wash.

JIM MITCHELL: Right, but I was just speaking specifically to the fee income where you were down I think 7% year-over-year. I would think that would start to turn positive at some point.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, fair enough. And maybe just one quick question on the expense side. You talked about the simplification impact on revenues and expenses. You're still at sort of a net negative about $200 million pre-taxes. Should that get closer to zero? Is it just it takes a little longer to get the expenses out versus the revenues or is that going to be a permanent drag?

MARIANNE LAKE: So overall, the way to think about it is it's not ultimately going to be necessarily zero, but when you think about it in the context of the capital and the relative returns, it was not accretive to our returns, and so we have the differential between 500 and 300. For the full year, it's still not zero. There is a slight lag. Clearly there's a slight lag taking out the expenses, but there's still an overall small net income impact, but for overall mutual to positive benefit on the return.

JIM MITCHELL: Okay, got you. Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: And regardless of that, remember that our rationale for business simplification included a bunch of different reasons. It included activities that weren't core to our core clients' activities that were outsized in terms of operational or other risks, as well as those that weren't returning hurdles. So there are other reasons to simplify your business and they will have other ancillary benefits.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS.

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. A quick question on derivatives and equities. You guys highlighted the strength there. Were there any one-timers in those results because it certainly seemed like 4Q was volatile. Also did the uptick in equities VAR have anything to do with the revenue trends there?

MARIANNE LAKE: So no specific one-time items in the equity derivative performance. The uptick in VAR has to do generally speaking with higher levels of volatility than it does with anything in terms of risk direction.

JAMIE DIMON: Equity derivatives are largely Japan and Europe and Asia.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JAMIE DIMON: The increase.

MARIANNE LAKE: Largely Asia, yes.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: And that's true across (multiple speakers).

JAMIE DIMON: It's an example where volatility did actually help.

MARIANNE LAKE: If you look at equities in total, particularly in the prime space, there was a small one-time item, but not in the derivatives space.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Got it. And that change in VAR due to volatility was sort of across the board in the buckets, not just in the equities VAR?

MARIANNE LAKE: It's not a significant increase in VAR, but, yes, you see increase in CPG VAR on spread widening and volatility, increase in equities. Just year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter, we've seen an increase in volatility.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay. And then sticking with capital markets, thinking about how we're starting the current quarter, it does feel a lot like deja vu here in the beginning of the fourth quarter where the markets are beginning with some pretty unconstructive volatility. I know we're very, very early going, but is that a fair comparison to make and are we starting off on a pretty tough foot here? Obviously there's a lot of road to hoe here, but any comments on that would be helpful.

MARIANNE LAKE: This quarter more than any quarter it's really honestly to early to make any comments of any note regarding trading performance, particularly given that the holiday fell midweek. So the reality of the situation is thematically nothing has changed from the end of the fourth quarter, but there's no big new news in the first few days of trading.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Great. Last small cleanup one on capital markets. I know you've mentioned that there's going to be a lag from business simplification, but was any of the decline in comp in CIB tied to business simplification here? Just trying to think about how much of that drop might have been due to some other items aside from --.

JAMIE DIMON: It was year-end cleanup; it had nothing to do with business simplification.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Perfect. Thanks.

MARIANNE LAKE: And I think if you look at our revenues excluding FVA/DVA year-over-year, they are down reasonably in line with comp.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. On the mortgage banking side, you're definitely picking up marketshare from probably your -- you were shedding marketshare up until probably the second quarter of this year and one of the chatters out there is that you've gotten more aggressive in the correspondent markets and the comment you made, Jamie, back in I think June of this year was that you wanted to get out on -- maybe not get out of, but lessen your exposure to those low FICO, high LTVs, i.e. FHA loans. I was wondering if you are still trying to lower your marketshare in FHA loans. Can you make some comments about being more aggressive on the correspondent side too?

JAMIE DIMON: I think they are two different issues. One is the correspondent business properly done is fine and obviously we do look at their credit underwriting because we've had a backup over the last 5 or 10 years. Correspondents are no longer in business and if they did a bad job, we had to pay for that. So you want to be very careful and do business with the proper kind of people. We have reduced our share of FHA loans just because the ongoing -- two reasons. One is the ongoing liability in the production side where the insurance was worthless over time and the second is just the cost of servicing FHA loans when they go into default and they have a much higher chance of going into default than not. So those are two reasons to do less. And maybe that will change over time, but we're still in the same place in that.

MARIANNE LAKE: And just on the share gains, they are in jumbo and conventional conforming loans, not in the government space. So yes, we are competing aggressively on price, but with the right capital allocation and with the right hurdle and these are loans that are very high quality that we are willing to put on our balance sheet done with correspondents that we have confidence in the financial status of.

PAUL MILLER: And then some of the rule -- on a follow-up -- some of the rule changes you're seeing coming out of GSEs that try to spur I guess loan demand is you're seeing the GSEs starting to do 3% down payment loans. Is that something that JPMorgan would go down underwritten correctly or is that just too risky?

MARIANNE LAKE: So the GSE -- you could always get loans up to 97% in the government space, you could get it in the agency space with mortgage insurance. We've seen some movement from the FHA on [GCs] and mortgage insurance premiums, all of which I think is intended to try and help credit availability, which we would generally support. It doesn't change our strategy, however, which is that we are much more focused on originating in the very high quality jumbo and conventional conforming space. But, yes, properly underwritten we will do agency loans in the programs that they have available.

PAUL MILLER: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Good morning. Just a couple of follow-up questions. Marianne, you talked about some of the loan growth that you've experienced and expect to continue to experience and also the driver of the RWA reductions. But can you just help us understand what we should expect from your GAAP balance sheet given that a portion of the RWA reduction sounds like it is coming from runoff?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, look, we have, over the last, I think, two years and a quarter, two plus years or so, we've seen an inflow of cash of between $300 billion and $400 billion on our balance sheet. So our balance sheet size has grown slightly over the course of the last several quarters in the last year, but the vast majority of the growth is driven by incremental cash and there's two principal reasons for that. One is as we have been looking to become compliant with our own and with US rules on liquidity, which we are compliant with at this point and have been for a while, that the other is also that we've been receiving increased nonoperational cash predominantly from wholesale clients. And so to the degree that that cash is accretive from an NII perspective and that we aren't balance sheet or leverage constrained and it's a key part of the relationship with that client, that may not be a bad thing. But to the degree that it's not a key part of the relationship, we're going to be disciplined about trying to manage that balance. So I would say underlying that, we would expect our balance sheet to not be growing certainly not significantly, but cash can be the volatile factor.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Sure. I guess I was thinking about it more from the perspective of the loan portfolio. It sounds like the expectation is --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, we saw loan growth year-over-year 8% core, 3% reported. We feel pretty good about the demand for loans across our businesses, particularly those that have been performing strongly now consistently like business banking, like prime mortgage on the portfolio, commercial real estate, even auto and we continue to be optimistic about C&I and even Card. So yes, we would expect to see robust loan growth into next year hopefully on the back of a continued improvement in the economy.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Got it. So if I were to summarize all of the guidance that you gave today with those comments, it sounds like the expectation is for modestly higher net interest income, fee income reflecting whatever volatility we suffer from in the capital market space, an absolute decline in operating expense, but likely some increase in the provision. Is that generally correct?

MARIANNE LAKE: I'll give you a (inaudible) one for you. On the back of robust loan demand and rising rates in the second half of the year, which is our current central case, then we would expect NII to be up in the second half of the year, flattish in the first half of the year. Obviously if those two things don't play out then that wouldn't be the case. I'll let you draw your own conclusions on the rest of it.

JAMIE DIMON: You're using the implied yield curve effectively, so if that changes then obviously that will affect the second half of the year.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Sure, sure. Great, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: You've been consistent about -- on the issue of dividing the firm up into constituent companies about the strategic benefits of it all, but I wonder if you've done any contingency planning on what if it ever came to the fact that it was too much of a drag to keep it all together? And I guess the question I have is is it even possible to unscramble the egg and specifically the issue I'm wondering about is you've got over $160 billion of debt at the parent company level. If you were to break the Company up into a consumer bank, a wholesale bank and an asset management business just for argument's sake, is there a way to fairly allocate that debt to the three various lines of business or how would one even go about that?

JAMIE DIMON: Look, unscrambling it would be extraordinarily complex and it would be extraordinarily complex in debt, in systems, in technology, in people and where certain things go and the businesses would start competing with each other right away, which I think is perfectly reasonable if they were all separate standalone. So look, we're very conscious of the narrative, which has become out there about this, but it is far more complex than that. The right way to look at it is we have these great franchises, we have a lot of time to manage through this and that is our objective, not unscrambling the egg. We're going to manage through it and we can manage almost every single part of it over -- think of over a long period, like five or seven years. Don't think of over six months or a year. There's nothing we couldn't set a limit, drive down, sell, manage and that would probably be far easier than the alternative. Even if it led to lower growth, it wouldn't necessarily lead to lower returns. So just keep in mind that obviously we're going to do the right thing at the end of the day for the shareholder. It might be lower growth and better returns and managing through that and not doing certain things at all.

Marianne mentioned for example the amount of deposits we take in. Well, it might be that we limit and restrict the amount of deposits we take in at quarter-end. We do it to accommodate clients, but all those nonoperational deposits go directly into the Federal Reserve. So that's what Marianne said. We do it and maybe make some spread. If you can get 25 basis points there and you maybe are paying the client something. There are some clients which aren't charged to take their quarter-end. They don't do enough business with us and we don't want their quarter-end balances. So we have a lot of levers, we have a lot of time and we are going to do it very intelligently over time. We're not going to damage this franchise just because of a current narrative.

And the other thing I want to point out about the current narrative, which kind of surprises me that people don't mention, when you all talk about P/Es and sum of the parts, P/Es are temporary, P/Es change over time and the real question you should be asking is is the E going to be much higher or much lower under scenario A or B, not just what is the P/E going to be because I could give you a lot of scenarios where your E is going to be a hell of a lot lower and that dwarfs the effect of the P/E change and the P/Es themselves are temporary. JPMorgan is already earning its cost of capital and you're comparing it to P/Es to a lot of guys who aren't earning their cost of capital. Meaning people expect them to have dramatic growth in earnings, which they will and so it's -- you've really got to have a much more forward-looking view of what P/Es will be, what values will be, what earnings will be, what the franchise will be then just the sum of the parts breakup based on current P/Es and false comparisons.

Some of the people out there that people compare it to they are not real comparisons. We are not in the same business with those people, but we are very shareholder-conscious. That's not to say we're not going to do the right thing for shareholders over time. We will; there are other ways to do it.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thanks.

JAMIE DIMON: And the other thing which I think is important too is that we compete globally. Remember we have to be very conscious of who we're competing with and what they're going to do over time. And my guess is you're going to have some very large, very tough global competition over the next 20 years. They are not going away. They may have currently lower G-SIFI charges, but I'm not sure that's going to be true 10 years from now. Particularly the Chinese banks get bigger and bigger and some other global competitors decide they want to be in the global businesses.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: David Hilder, Drexel Hamilton.

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, DREXEL HAMILTON: Good morning. Thanks very much. On the question of legal costs, and I realize you'll refresh your disclosure in the 10-K, but can you say anything about whether there are other cases or buckets of cases out there that have the potential to cost $1 billion in any one quarter?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, I would refer you to -- if you look at the 10-Q disclosure from last quarter, that will give you a sense for the things that are outstanding. We will obviously update and refresh it in the K, but we're not going to discuss specifically all of the remaining cases.

JAMIE DIMON: David, I think again I think the way people -- I know -- we know we cause problems with you all because we have this lumpy quarter-by-quarter type stuff. I wouldn't look at this as a quarter-by-quarter issue. If you owned 100% of this Company, the better way to look at it is it's going to cost us several billion dollars more somehow plus or minus another couple billion before we get to what I call a more normalized legalized basis. We disclose all that stuff in the 10-K. I think the RPL, if you ask me, is actually a fairly decent way to look at what those might be and we give you an RPL number, which is something that has not gone to the P&L, which is possible and we can't make something which is lumpy not lumpy and we can't make something which we wish we can bucket -- if we could, we would put all the reserves now and say we're done. We can't.

DAVID HILDER: Understood. Thanks very much and for your comments on (multiple speakers).

JAMIE DIMON: It's a number and the important part as a shareholder is I want to deal with that, acknowledge our mistakes, try to have a fortress controlled balance sheet, try to stop stepping in dog (expletive), which we do every now and then, but build a customer franchise is the important part. When you have a market cap of $230 billion, I want to make that worth $500 billion 10 years from now. There's several billion dollars that we're going to have to pay for legal, so we want to fix it and it's unfortunate we do this to you all, but it's unavoidable right now.

DAVID HILDER: Well, I would agree with all of that. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. Two questions. Marianne, we had some numbers last week that indicated rising delinquency in auto loan portfolios and I think your commentary about your losses this quarter kind of confirm that. Are the numbers right now aberrational or is this a seasoning trend or how do you see this?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I can talk for JPMorgan very specifically that we are seeing the charge-off rate -- remember, we have had charge-off rates for the auto business that have been relatively low for an extended period. Now we're seeing them revert back to something more normal and when we think about pricing the business and through the cycle, we contemplate a more normal level of charge-offs. So this isn't as surprising to us.

Having said that, what we're also seeing in terms of just the broad competitive space is it's not irrationality necessarily, but longer duration, higher LTVs, more subprime originations. JPMorgan -- we are lower LTV than the industry and very concentrated on the near and super prime space. So there's part of that that we're just not participating in, but even for our own portfolio you're going to see some of those charge-off rates trend up to something a bit more normal, but that's how we think about the business through the cycle.

NANCY BUSH: Do you feel confident that this is not sort of the canary in the coal mine with regard to perhaps other consumer segments?

MARIANNE LAKE: I hate to say I'm confident about anything, but that's not our expectation.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And second --.

JAMIE DIMON: It's a very good question because of what we all went through in the mortgage game where subprime was an early indicator for even prime. But when we look at credit card, we don't think it's an early indicator of credit card. We're going to be very conscious -- as Marianne said, auto did unbelievably well through the crisis, shockingly well we'd all say. So this is maybe a return to norm, but we're going to pay paying a lot of attention to it.

MARIANNE LAKE: And the loans that we're originating now, the very far, the right side of 700 FICO loans with LTVs lower than the industry lower than 100%.

NANCY BUSH: Jamie, one final, hopefully final question on the breakup issue. We all listen to what you say about the strategic value of your businesses and the complementary nature of the businesses, etc. and it all sounds very logical. But in Washington, there is still a belief that your Company in its present form is a danger to the global financial system. Is there any -- in your view, is there any level of capital that is going to mitigate the too big to fail issue or does it go beyond that?

JAMIE DIMON: I think, Nancy, views and facts are completely different, okay? This Company was a port in the storm in the real crisis in 2008 and 2009 and that was after we bought Bear Stearns and (inaudible). We had no issues whatsoever. We have a lot more capital now, we're more conservative now. We've got less credit exposure as a percent of the balance sheet. We've got less risk as a percent of the balance sheet. We've got more long-term debt, we've got more liquid assets. We've got more -- so it's even more true today. The fact is the Company is an extremely powerful thing.

People, when they talk about risk, they are just talking about -- a lot of people, they look at size and it scares them. I completely understand that. But that isn't the determinant and I don't think we should be making shareholder decisions based upon views of people who don't necessarily really know. So if the regulators at the end of the day want JPMorgan to be split up then that's what will have to happen. We can't fight the federal government if that's their intent or maybe their intent is what it is. If you are going to carry more capital and you've got to modify your business model over time to carry capital, that one we think we can earn a superior return still versus other banks and carry the higher capital and modify our business model over time without taking drastic action.

And remember, again, you've got to look forward in this. America has been the leader in global capital markets for the last 50 or 100 years. It's part of the reason the country is so strong. I look at it as a matter of public policy. I wouldn't want to see the next JPMorgan Chase be a Chinese company because someone has to be serving the global multinationals around the world and all the things that that means about knowledge and experience and research and capabilities. So I think that if you look ahead 10 years, you're going to have large global companies who compete and we may have to be slightly smaller than we might otherwise have been, but so be it. If we can do that and do a good return for shareholders, we should do that.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you. Well said.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy, RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you. Marianne, can you tell us -- obviously, you've built up your HQLA in the quarter and your net interest margin came down. How much of the margin pressure was due to the increase in the HQLA?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I will tell you that to answer the question maybe just slightly differently but with the same basic point that we saw an increase in cash of about $45 billion or a little bit more that $45 billion in the quarter and that drove the vast majority of the 5 to 6 basis points decline in NIM.

GERARD CASSIDY: Are you guys -- I notice that the deposits at the central banks, as you pointed out, grew very largely in the quarter. Is this a level that now you're satisfied with? And also connected with that, what as outsiders should we look at that will drive the LCR ratio either higher or lower in terms of your calculation that you're going to be doing on a quarterly basis going forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: So what dictates what we have on deposits at the central bank -- for any deposit that we have that is excess operating or nonoperating that we don't think has any significant or any liquidity value to the Company, on the whole, those are all on deposit with central bank earning a very small amount of interest income. And there is some passed onto the client net-net, so something slightly accretive. So that's what's driving the amount of cash, so to the degree that we have more nonoperating cash that will drive that. We are compliant with LCR under the US rules with an appropriate but modest buffer right now and that's based upon what we think is a fairly forward-leaning point of view about what true operating deposits really are.

So as we think about what the cash is in customers' accounts that they really require to operate their businesses and no more. So we think we've got a forward-leaning point of view on that. So I think the rules are for the US final. I think our ratio for US LCR right now will be favorable for a period of time and then if there are any changes, either to the US rules, which we don't have any line of sight on or if we are required to make changes or decide to make changes to our own internal liquidity framework, that could cause us to add to liquidity, but that's something that we'll inform you of as we go through time.

GERARD CASSIDY: And one last issue on --.

JAMIE DIMON: If you look at our balance sheet, forget all this rule stuff, we have almost $500 billion in central banks around the world. We have $300 billion plus of AA+ securities of very short duration. We have like $300 billion of repo and stock borrow, which is all secured in commodities by top credits with proper haircuts and stuff like that and with our capital base of equity capital of $200 billion, preferred stock of $30 billion, TLAC of debt of $150 billion plus, our loans are $700 billion, which has always been the riskiest part of our balance sheet. And receivable is like $70 billion and so this balance sheet of this Company is unbelievable.

GERARD CASSIDY: Totally agree. One last thing on those deposits of the central banks, I know some of the big custody banks indicated that they were going to charge their customers that have euro deposits because the ECB is now charging for the deposits at the ECB. Did you guys do that in the quarter and if so how did the customers react when you passed on that cost to them?

MARIANNE LAKE: So for financial institutions and nonbanks -- for banks and nonbank financial institutions, yes, we passed on the overnight rate to our customers and it's basically on their operating cash flows. It is what it is. All we're doing is passing through the cost. It's operating cash for their business so there was --.

JAMIE DIMON: In euros.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, in euros, so there was no significant reaction at all. It's a market (multiple speakers).

JAMIE DIMON: It's very hard -- I mean you're not going to be taking deposits at a loss that are just very temporary to help our clients, so I think everyone understands that.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: There are no other questions.

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay, thanks very much.

JAMIE DIMON: All right. Thank you very much. Talk to you soon.

OPERATOR: Thank you again for joining today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150116eb1e0025u
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  JPMorgan  Chase & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,956 words
   PD
14 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the JPMorgan Chase third-quarter 2014 earnings call. This call is being recorded. Your line will be muted for the duration of the call. We will now go live to the presentation. Please stand by. At this time I would like to turn the call over to JPMorgan Chase 's Chairman and CEO, Jamie Dimon , and Chief Financial Officer, Marianne Lake . Ms. Lake, please go ahead.

   TD
MARIANNE LAKE, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, operator, good morning, everyone. I'm going to take you through the earnings presentation which is available on our website. Please refer to the disclaimer regarding forward-looking statements at the back of the presentation.

Starting on page 1, the Firm delivered strong underlying performance this quarter with net income of $5.6 billion on strong revenue of over $25 billion, up 5% year on year, reflecting growth across most of our businesses; and EPS of $1.36 and a return on tangible common equity of 13% for the quarter.

Included in our results is Firm wide legal expense of approximately $1 billion after-tax, which relates to a number of matters, in large part an estimated amount for FX, which was treated as non-deductible tax purposes.

There were also a number of smaller items, most notably a benefit of approximately $400 million of tax discrete items in corporate, as well as consumer reserve releases of $200 million pretax. Excluding these and other non-core items net income was approximately $5.8 billion reflecting strong core performance.

The quarter was characterized by continued strength in our leadership positions as well as market share gains across the consumer businesses, higher levels of market volatility and client volumes than anticipated in CIB and record performance and asset management.

Core loan growth for the quarter was strong, up 7% year on year, while maintaining strong discipline across the board and with encouraging trends in consumer. We've also continued to make progress against our capital targets with a CET1 ratio of 10.1% and firm supplementary leverage ratio of 5.5%, all while returning approximately $3 billion of capital to shareholders the quarter, with gross share repurchases of $1.5 billion.

Turning to page 2 -- adjusted expense that -- excluding legal, was $14.7 billion in the third quarter, down approximately $30 million quarter on quarter with an adjusted overhead ratio of 59%. We continue to be focused and diligent on managing expenses.

Although our third-quarter adjusted expense may appear elevated in comparison to our full-year target of $58 billion, it was substantially driven by higher market performance versus our earlier expectations. If the positive momentum continues in the fourth quarter it is likely that our total adjusted expense will be above $58 billion, but obviously on higher revenues.

On credit, despite lower reserve releases, Firm wide credit costs remain very low, driven by reduced net charge-offs. We expect total net charge-offs for 2014 to be less than $5 billion, which is below our previous guidance.

Also included on this page are the returns generated by each of our businesses this quarter. Of note the commercial bank and asset management achieved 18% and 25% ROEs respectively, in-line with their through the cycle targets. CCB was at 19% and, if you back out the impact of legal expense in CIB, its ROE would've been around 14%.

Moving on to capital on page 3 -- the Firm reported a fully phased in advanced CET1 ratio of 10.1%, up from 9.8% last quarter, reaching our year-end target of 10% plus. Not on the page but for your information the fully phased in standardized ratio was 10.5%.

As you know, the final US rules on SLR and LCR were published in September. On SLR there were no notable changes and, as I just mentioned, the Firm's SLR was 5.5%, reaching our target level and we were at 5.7% for the bank this quarter.

The LCR final US rule had some changes versus the NPR. Remember, we have been disclosing our LCR compliance relative to the Basel rules. The US final rule is in some ways more punitive, but we remain compliant with a more modest buffer.

Moving on to business performance starting with CCB on page 4 -- the combined consumer businesses generated $2.5 billion of net income for the quarter on $11.3 billion of revenue and an ROE of 19%.

I'd like to draw your attention to the right-hand side of the page; it shows that the long-term investments we've been making in the business are paying off, illustrated by the many leadership positions we hold. We are particularly proud of our customer satisfaction rankings.

We're seeing continued strong growth in the underlying business drivers. Average deposits were up $35 billion year on year, an increase of 8%. Our active mobile customer base is up 22% and credit card sales volume of $120 billion was up 12% on strong new account originations.

Across CCB we reduced headcount by over 10,000 this year against our year-end target of 8,000 outlined at Investor Day. And we expect a total reduction of 11,000 or so by year end.

Finally, before I move on, as you are aware, JPMorgan and certain others in the financial services industry experienced cyber attacks this quarter. We are taking every step to protect our customers and our Firm, but these attacks highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation among businesses and the government to systemically reduce and resolve cyber threats. We are committed to doing our part. To date we have not observed elevated levels of fraud related to this matter.

Turning to page 5, Consumer & Business Banking -- CBB generated net income of $914 million, up 20% year on year. The business continues to improve its operating leverage with an ROE of 33%, up 6 percentage points versus a year ago, with revenue up 5% and expense relatively flat.

Underlying business drivers remain strong. Average deposits of $476 billion were up 9% year on year and client investment assets were up 16% to a record $208 billion.

We continue to see strong deposit growth across regions and markets. In fact, for the third consecutive year we led the FDIC survey with the highest deposit growth among the largest 50 US Banks. Overall we grow our deposit share in 46 of our 50 largest markets nationwide and we remain number one in three of the largest deposit markets.

Moving on to revenue, net interest income was up 4% year on year driven by strong deposit growth offset by continued pressure on margins. And noninterest revenue was up 6% with investment revenue growth driven by Chase Private Client and with the addition of over 700,000 households driving stronger fee income. Expense is relatively flat with efficiency improvement in the business being offset by increased cost of control.

Finally, on business banking originations, the momentum that we've seen in recent quarters continues and we believe we have outperformed the industry with loan originations for the quarter of $1.6 billion, up 27% year on year, down quarter on quarter seasonally.

This reflects a combination of industry trends improving driven by business optimism generally continuing to remain strong and improving banking performance, especially in the expansion market as our targeted strategies mature. We do expect the strong growth to continue through the remainder of the year.

Mortgage Banking on page 6. Overall mortgage banking net income was $439 million for the quarter with an ROE of 10%. As expected, the production environment remains challenging, mortgage production pretax income, ex-repurchase, was slightly positive for the quarter, a little better than guidance on better-than-expected expense performance.

Originations are approximately $21 billion or up 26% quarter on quarter against a market that we estimate to be up approximately 10%. Therefore we believe we've gained share and that share gain has been in high-quality jumbo and conventional eligible bonds which, as you know, are the segments we are focusing on.

As a reminder, with purchase mix up the business has become much more seasonal with volume and profitability peaks in the second and third quarters and lows in the first and fourth. Given this we still expect the fourth-quarter results to be a small negative as previously guided.

Finally, on production we had a $62 million benefit in the quarter driven by refinements to our repurchase reserve.

On to servicing, net servicing-related revenue of $639 million was down $54 million quarter on quarter, again on the better side of our guidance due to gains on the sale of Ginnie Mae loans.

Looking forward into the fourth quarter, core servicing revenue will continue to decline and we expect less benefits from other revenue sources, such as those from Ginnie Mae sales, given lower delinquencies and lower loan modification volume. As a result we do expect fourth-quarter servicing revenues to be $600 million or slightly lower.

Servicing expense increased approximately $25 million quarter on quarter due to investments in control and operational improvements. You will note that this represents a delay in achieving our target of $500 million for the fourth quarter. However, we are doing what is necessary to improve our controls and operational processes and we expect servicing expense to continue to decline through 2015 at a slower pace.

MSR risk management was a modest gain of $76 million reflecting regular model updates. On real estate portfolios we added approximately $6.8 billion of high-quality loans to our portfolio this quarter, up from $5 billion in the second quarter.

Loan quality remains very strong, we recorded net charge-offs of $81 million and reserve releases of $100 million in the noncredit impaired portfolio, reflecting improvements in home prices as well as delinquencies.

Lastly on mortgage, headcount was down approximately 6,000 year to date, meeting our target for the year outlined at Investor Day. And we are on track to reduce it by an incremental 1,000 or so by year end.

Turning to page 7, Card, Merchant Services & Auto -- net income of $1.1 billion, down 10% year on year, but up 4% excluding reserve releases with an ROE of 23%, reflecting very strong spend as well as balanced growth of $3 billion year over year. Continuing momentum we saw last quarter as growth and our core business is now outpacing the runoff portfolio.

Overall we saw strong and stable revenue of $4.6 billion, flat year on year. Loan growth as well as strong sales volume was offset by spread compression and higher amortization of customer acquisition costs. Expense is up 4% year on year predominately driven by higher [forward] expense related to Home Depot and higher auto lease depreciation.

In Card sales growth of 12% led the industry for the 26th consecutive quarter. This industry outperformance is being driven by the value proposition of our core Chase branded and partner products and the investments we are making in customer acquisition, ultimate rewards, marketing and customer service. These investments are driving strong new account originations, up 29%. And the performance of these new accounts, 2013 and 2014 vintages, is exceeding our expectation.

In merchant services volume was up 15% year on year driven by continued strong sales performance. But transaction growth was up 6% year on year lagging sales growth, driven by merchant mix and aggregation trends.

In auto new vehicle sales continue to grow year over year with the third quarter up 8%. We've seen the 12th consecutive quarter of loan and lease growth despite a very competitive market and credit losses continue to be stable and low with the auto pipeline remaining healthy, consistent with a recovery in the auto market.

Moving on to credit, the environment remains benign. We continue to see improvements in card early delinquencies and the card net charge-off rate was 252 basis points, an all-time low. This quarter we released $100 million of auto and student lending reserve with no releases in card.

During September a new step forward in the evolution of payments was announced, Apple Pay. We are excited to be a key player in a solution that offers improved security and a streamlined customer experience. At the same time we are continuing to develop other innovative payment solutions.

Moving on to page 8 and the Corporate & Investment Bank -- CIB reported net income of $1.5 billion on revenue of $8.8 billion and an ROE of 10% or 14% if you adjust for legal expense. In banking total revenue was $2.7 billion, down 6% year over year. IDCs were $1.5 billion, up 2%, with revenue growth in advisory and equity underwriting fees on strong market activity being offset by lower debt underwriting fees.

We maintained our number one ranking in global IDCs per Dealogic with particular strength in ECM in Europe and IPOs globally and we remain a go to bank for large deals and related financing. The ID pipeline is strong with an environment supported of M&A and a strong equity underwriting market.

Treasury Services revenue was $1 billion, in line with our guidance, and Lending revenue was down approximately $200 million year on year, primarily driven by mark-to-market losses of over $100 million in this quarter versus modest gains in the prior year on securities received from restructuring.

So let's spend a moment on market revenues. The green shoot and the potential upside to our performance that we've been seeing in early September did in fact materialize and our reported markets revenues were up 1% year on year, despite a strong third quarter last year, a quarter in which we significantly outperformed.

In fixed income in currencies and emerging markets a strong quarter and a particularly strong September with pickup in both volumes and volatility as currency markets benefited from divergence across global monetary policies, an average quarter for commodities and credit and an improving quarter for rates.

In equities we saw quite strong performance for a third quarter in line with last year. Cash was very strong in EMEA on the back of a strong primary market and equity derivatives results were lower versus a record last year, offset by an uptick in prime services revenue on higher balances and continued growth.

Of note, customers are taking notice of the progress we've been making in building out our electronic trading platform. And we are seeing strong growth in electronic trading volumes, up 50% in year on year in Europe and nearly 20% in the US.

Moving on to the outlook for the fourth quarter, we are pleased to have completed the sales of our physical commodities business and detailed portfolios, which were major parts of our business simplification agenda and with limited impact on ROE over time.

However, these sales will present revenue headwinds in the fourth quarter. And based upon their contributions to last year's results, these will drive an approximately 8% revenue decline year-over-year or approximately $300 million.

So outside of the year-over-year decline driven by business exit, we are cautiously optimistic that momentum may carry over. However, October so far has been mixed, likely on the back of a changing market sentiment around the prospect for global growth and inflation.

Security Services revenue of $1.1 billion was up 8% year on year, primarily driven by higher NII on higher deposits, down quarter on quarter 5% on seasonality. Assets under custody were $21.2 trillion, up 8% year on year. Credit adjustments and other, a positive $240 million, is driven primarily by DVA and FVA as a result of credit spread widening and refinements to certain assumptions.

Moving on to expense, total expense was up 21% year on year with a comp to revenue ratio of 32% for the quarter and year to date. Non-comp expense was up 21% year on year primarily driven by legal expense, but down 2% quarter on quarter as increased legal expenses were more than offset by lower cost of business simplification and other expenses.

Just quickly on CIB loans, the headline 5% decline for loans is driven by lower client overdraft and trade. Underlying that, traditional credit portfolio and other HFI loans were up by over 10%.

Moving on to page 9 and Commercial Banking -- the quarter saw net income of $649 million on revenue of $1.7 billion with a strong ROE of 18%. Revenue was down 3% from the prior year and 2% sequentially, reflecting yield compression in our lending book as well as business simplification, partially offset by higher loan and deposit balances.

Expense of $668 million was in line with guidance and relatively flat year on year and quarter on quarter, despite ongoing investments in controls. Loan balances increased $1.6 billion in the quarter driven by continued strong performance in our commercial real estate businesses.

CRE loans increased 13% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter, both in excess of the industry, and our CRE book has now grown for 14 consecutive quarters. C&I loans were relatively flat from the prior quarter, broadly in line with industry trends.

Of note, deposits increased $5 billion in the quarter, mostly in Middle Market and corporate client banking. This is reflective of our clients still managing with very high levels of liquidity. Having said that, utilization rates were up slightly for the quarter and pipelines continue to move incrementally higher across the board.

Outside of lending we continue to make good progress in building our core franchise. This quarter growth investment banking revenue was approximately $500 million, up 12% from last year, and on a year-to-date basis the commercial bank has generated $1.4 billion of investment banking revenues for the Firm up 22%.

Card and merchant services revenue increased 7% from the prior year. And finally, since this time last year we've added approximately 500 new clients in targeted industries.

Overall credit performance remains strong with net charge-offs of only 1 basis point, marking the seventh consecutive quarter with net charge-offs in the single-digit or very low or recoveries.

As you think about the coming quarter, we do expect returns to continue. We would like to remind you of the one-time proceeds of approximately $100 million that we received in the fourth quarter of last year from a lending-related workout.

Moving on to page 10, Asset Management -- an excellent quarter in asset management with record net income of $572 million, up 20% year on year and 4% quarter on quarter with a 25% ROE and a 31% pretax margin, in line with our through the cycle target. For the full year we expect these ratios to below our through the cycle target.

You will see that we changed from reporting our revenue by client segment to reporting revenue by line of business to be consistent with how we manage the business. So we are introducing sub line of business results for revenues in global investment management and global wealth management.

Overall revenue of $3 billion was up 9% year on year, reflecting an increase in management fees driven by long-term net inflows, including $16 billion this quarter. This marks the 22nd consecutive quarter of long-term inflows driving AUM of $1.7 trillion up 11% year on year.

While we continue to see strength in our multi-asset and fixed income flows equity flows were flat this quarter. Asset Management expense of $2.1 billion was up 4% from a year ago and up modestly 1% versus last quarter.

In banking we reported strong performance in both lending and deposits. Record loan balances up 16% year on year and 3% quarter on quarter with growth coming from both our US and our international markets and a solid pipeline for demands for the remainder of the year. Deposits were also a record, up 9% year on year and 2% quarter on quarter.

Lastly as reported, client assets of $2.3 trillion were up 4% year on year and down 5% quarter on quarter. However as part of business simplification we closed the sale of the RPS business during this quarter, recognizing a small gain reflected in [GIM]. Excluding the impact of the RPS sale client assets would have been up 10% year on year and flat quarter on quarter.

Moving on to page 11 and Corporate and Private Equity -- Private Equity reported $71 million of net income driven by net violation gains including a small net gain related to the portfolio sale in OEP which we announced in the quarter, predominantly offset by related expenses. Year to date the portfolio balance is down by approximately $2.5 billion and with the sale we expect it to be down by about $4 billion by year end.

Treasury and CIO reported a small net loss of $30 million with NII slightly positive in the quarter, and other corporate net income at $357 million; included in this result were a tax-related benefit of approximately $400 million, as I previously mentioned, as well as approximately $500 million pretax of legal expense with the remainder of the Firm wide legal expense principally in the IB.

At the Firm level our tax rate for the quarter was 28%, broadly in line with a normalized tax rate of 30% plus or minus. Nondeductible legal expenses in CIB were offset by tax benefits here and other corporate.

Before moving on to our outlook page, Firm NII was up approximately $320 million quarter on quarter driven by lower interest expense in CIB and core NII was up approximately $110 million.

Moving on to page 12 -- you can see on the page our current outlook which I've already addressed throughout the presentation. Wrapping up, a strong result for a third quarter despite legal expense of $1 billion after-tax. This reflects the strength of each of our franchises and the benefit of the diversified business model.

We have made substantial progress against our control and regulatory agenda as well as business simplification, albeit with more work to do. And we have successfully executed against our 2014 target of capital leverage and liquidity.

As I have shown you today, the investments we are making in our businesses are fueling growth and underpinning strong earnings now and in the future and we remain focused on serving our customers and safeguarding their assets and our Company. With that, operator, please open up the lines for Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Can you just give us a sense of what is left in terms of simplifying the model? Maybe split it between the CIB and consumer if that is a good way of approaching it.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, so, Matt, I would say we I think -- and I can't remember which quarter it was, but several quarters ago we put a slide out in the presentation that showed what -- it was last year -- showed what the business simplification agenda looked like.

I think if you go back and now look at what we have done, including what we were able to either complete or sign this quarter, OEP, the RPS business, GSOG, Commodities, we've certainly broken the back of most of the business simplification agenda. Having said that, it is an ongoing process and we continue to de-risk clients and industries and continue to simplify our products in mortgage and the like.

So I would characterize that the actions that we have taken by the end of this year are substantially all of them. But at the margin we continue to look at client by client product by product to simplify things.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, and as a follow-up, somewhat related, but as we think about having more clarity on the capital rules and specifically the supplemental leverage ratio as well as the LCR, is there some opportunity for optimization of the balance sheet now that you have more clarity on those rules?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, we have talked before about the fact that when you take into consideration a combination of the leverage and liquidity rules together with our own point of view on positioning the Company for rising rates. So therefore our own point of view as being under invested in the duration perspective, that we have, we believe, a relatively optimized balance sheet.

Although it likes like we have a significant amount of cash, that is in part non-operating deposits that at some point will either flow out or be adequately paid for by the client return and in other parts is part of our overall liquidity.

I mentioned that subsequent to the US LCR rules being made final that although we had been reporting previously against Basel compliance in the 20%-plus range, so a buffer of 20%-plus. The US rules are more punitive in a number of ways, most notably that they look at peak outflows in 30 days relevant cumulative and also on higher outflow assumptions across the categories. Given that we are not compliant with a more modest buffer. So we would say that we are largely optimized.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. And then just lastly, the $300 million of revenue going away in the fourth quarter, what would be the expenses and capital against that?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, the capital is relatively minimal in comparison to the overall Firm. So while it obviously is positive for us, it is not a noteworthy number. And the expenses, just to note that I said the ROE is limited over time; this is a business that was still being built and therefore hadn't yet reached a maturity stage or a stage where it was returning its hurdle.

It will take a little bit more time to take the expenses out so there will be a slight lag in removing expenses. So in the fourth quarter it will be more modest, but over time it would be a large chunk of that $300 million.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay, thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Marianne, I was wondering if you could give us some broader context on the core expenses. Is a principal driver of the updated outlook around the $58 billion -- is that just comp? And can you remind us where you are on the compliance control expenses in terms of leveling off there?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So we had a better third quarter than we had been expecting earlier in the quarter. We will see how the fourth quarter pans out. So, yes, it is the case that if we have a better fourth quarter and therefore a stronger second half of the year that our expectations for comp will be higher.

They'll still be well within our comp to revenue ratio range of 30% to 35%, I mean you saw for the quarter 32% year to date the same. So in large part it is going to be based on higher revenues in market. This quarter we also had higher revenues in mortgage and also in corporate. So that is the principal driver.

JOHN MCDONALD : And as we look out to 2015 (multiple speakers)?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, sorry.

JOHN MCDONALD : As we look out further to 2015 and 2016 can you give us a reminder of where you are looking to reduce the core expense base and get some savings on a one- to two-year basis?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. Before I do that, you had a second part to your question on the cost of controls. Let me just deal with that very quickly.

We talked about the fact that we expect our control cost to reach a peak this year, that is still the case. So I would say that they are substantially in our run rate by the end of the year.

They will over time be able to come down; they will still remain elevated relative to historical because that is the new business world we are in. But we are going to be able to become more efficient, automate things, finish remediations, look backs. So over time that will provide leverage.

In terms of looking out to 2015 and 2016, while we haven't given specific guidance I will just point you to a few things. The first is we do expect to continue to see mortgage servicing expense decline on the back of delinquency and credit trends.

We would also expect to see improvements in the production space albeit we are -- there is a reasonable fixed cost base. But nevertheless, as you saw this quarter, we continue to make great progress in resizing that expense base.

In the nonmortgage space in the consumer bank, Gordon has committed to $1 billion in 2016 over 2014 principally but not exclusively driven by automation and efficiencies in branch staffing leverage and also the branch footprint optimization.

And then while we didn't quantify it, Daniel is very much looking at the expense equation for positive leverage that is reasonably significant over the next two years in the CIB. So I would say across the board obviously we are growing in asset management, we are investing in our businesses notwithstanding.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, that is helpful. And then on the legal expense, did you give any color in the beginning on what was that for this quarter? And in terms of the FX and LIBOR investigations, are those at the stage yet where reserves can be built or can you offer anything on that?

MARIANNE LAKE: So at the beginning what I did say is that there are a number of masses in our legal expenses for the quarter, but in large part it does relate to FX. And consequently you can read into that that things are further progressed this quarter than last, but obviously we can't comment any further.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And then just in terms of share buybacks and capital levels, was wondering about your thoughts on the prospects for higher G-SIB buffers in the US. And how are you going to balance in the near term kind of your -- growing your space capital against executing the remaining buyback authorization that you have?

MARIANNE LAKE: So just to talk about it, so we did $1.5 billion of buybacks this quarter, same last quarter. Obviously we have another $2 billion to go in terms of our approval. We don't know what the rule is going to be, it will come out before the end of the year, we will have to see what that says.

There will be a transition timeline, it will transition on the same timeline phase and timeline that the rest of the buffers transition in on, so through to January 1, 2019. So there is no need for us to overreact and race to compliance.

So we would do much as we have done over the course of the last two years, which is balance continuing to make good progress getting to wherever it is that we need to be, which we are not going to get at at this moment, against the desire to want to continue to deliver capital to the shareholders in the form of increased dividends and repurchases.

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO .: Remember, you all have the forecast where CET1 goes up to 10.5%, 10.8% or something like that. When that new CCAR rules come out we'll probably go fine-tune what it might look like at the end of 2015.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean the reality of the situation is sitting at 10.1%; we are in good company with the rest of the industry in the context that just given how CCAR operates it is highly likely that there will be overall accretion to capital in the industry over the course of 2015 and we will be no exception. So we will continue to accrete capital up towards and potentially above our 10.5%. But we are not going to recalibrate a target until we understand the rules.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, and (multiple speakers).

MARIANNE LAKE: And (multiple speakers) one thing on the target, just when you see the rules yourself know that in our 50 to 100 basis point buffer the reason why we had a range was to allow in part for some of uncertainty and things evolving. And so, we would obviously want to fine-tune and put a finer point on our buffer. So it is possible that our buffer may not be as high as 100% too. So we will deal with all of that when the rules come out.

JAMIE DIMON: And we have also been, remember, very careful the purpose here is to protect and grow the client franchise, meet the regulatory agenda and then we will adjust to all of these changes as they take place. The big ones we're going to know by the end of the year, TLAC, G-SIB and new CCAR.

MARIANNE LAKE: CCAR, yes.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And Marianne, just on that point, you had some RWA inflation in the first half as you waited some model approvals you are waiting for I believe. Where are you on those model approvals and your expectations for kind of the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets as we move forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: So you would have seen our other where it came down slightly in the quarter from the second quarter on the back of model improvement and on data and portfolio runoff. So we are starting to see that bend now. It is the case that as we project forward to the end of 2015 the number that we showed you at Investor Day is still relatively good. It is probably a little higher than that. We said [1.5%] it will be support between 1.5% and 1.55% by the end of next year.

We are not in complete control around the timing of model approvals. We obviously are doing everything we can to be timely and then the regulators need adequate time to approve them. So we have kind of been a little bit more conservative potentially about the duration it takes to get models approved. But we are still on that same basic trajectory.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Glenn Schorr , ISI.

GLENN SCHORR , ANALYST, ISI GROUP: So first question on -- deposit growth has been growth and I guess I would love to see higher rates in loan growth. But you are positively positioned for the parallel shift up. I guess my first question is how does that change in more of a flattening environment that we are experiencing right now? Do you capture most of the benefit anyway just getting off zero on the short end?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, yes, there is a significant benefit. If you look at our disclosures you can kind of see the short end versus long end impact. Basically there is a significant benefit coming off of the short end. So we would expect to capture a significant portion of that in the first 12 months. But we obviously are looking for a more normal curve overall over time.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay. Just a -- I know we are not supposed to read too too much into it, but in everyone's mid-cycle [DFAST] results I think everyone was calling for -- or the big banks were calling for higher losses and lower PPNR in general relative to your own self test from the previous year.

Is that conservatism? Because it is a little different relative to the commentary about an improving economy, a little bit better loan growth, good expense control, things like that. I'm just curious what we are supposed to take away from that mid-cycle.

MARIANNE LAKE: Obviously not to comment on everybody else's results, but our results were -- in terms of the size of the economic downturn, they were relatively in line. And our results were relatively in line with a few minor sort of enhancements to our process. So we weren't actually looking for materially changed results in our midyear DFAST.

So obviously we haven't had instructions yet, we are expecting them absolutely eminently, possibly as early as this week. In terms of guidance from the regulators on how to think about the bank holding company scenario for 2015 CCAR, to the degree that there are more and more stressful idiosyncratic losses or stresses on leverage or other things it could have an impact. But we have to wait and see.

GLENN SCHORR : Okay, okay, last one. There are a couple of articles on rewriting of banker's agreements between major dealers to resolve some of the early termination rights issues, which obviously is going towards the Fed 's issues on living wills.

A, did that actually happen or is that just being talked about? And B, does it resolve the issue in the Fed 's -- I know you can't speak for the Fed , but does it resolve the issue or do you still have the client side to deal with over time?

JAMIE DIMON: So, Mark Carney of the FSB and the Bank of England Chairman said that two major things remain to finish kind of the too big to fail issues. One is how you deal with derivatives and the second is TLAC, and both of those will be done this year. This is the thing, has been done, it is a great example -- I think it was 18 firms who got together and came up in a very complex way globally had to deal with this in a way that the regulators.

And the Fed put out a press release and Mark Carney has been very positive about it and it was industry led. So we do think it does solve that issue. So all of the buy side will do it. It will be -- eventually all the sell side -- I mean the other way around, all the buy side will eventually want to do it because it is actually better for the business as a whole.

May be not better for one trading desk, but it is better for the business as a whole and it is a little coercive. So that the regulators are basically saying that to do further derivatives you are going to have to adopt these new rules. And we think over time a lot of people will do it.

MARIANNE LAKE: And just one thing there, the [GA] team does sort of break the back of the problem, but we are still awaiting actual regulatory guidance. So there is still the strong possibility that the guidance will be broader and we would encourage it to be broader, if nothing else for simplicity purposes, not necessarily because the GA team alone don't really achieve the results.

JAMIE DIMON: Right. And we're also in a position where even if the buy side doesn't for some reason, that we would be able to manage that risk over time and it would diminish over time because they're the short duration of the derivatives.

GLENN SCHORR : Right. And as long as the Fed counts that as, quote, material progress by July 15 I'm cool with it too. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hey, a couple of questions. One is on just RWAs in general. There were some articles around potentially shifting some of the repo activity to more of an agent role than principal role. I don't know if that is one of the ways that you could potentially have a light impact maybe on RWAs but on total footings to help with the ratios. Is that something that is being considered?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, I mean, our repo business is, as you know, substantially client driven and our clients are very interested in ensuring that they are giving us sufficient wallets to allow us to dedicate sufficient balance sheet to their business. So in that sense we continue to see repo as a strategic product for our client and a scarce resource, quite frankly.

So, it is obviously the case that as we understand new rules that meanwhile leverage rules have been for a while and we've seen leverage reduce in the industry overall. But we continue to have a strong and healthy repo business.

BETSY GRASECK: Would you be supportive of an industry move towards shifting repo to more of a CCP environment or no?

JAMIE DIMON: We are okay with the higher margins, generalized margin rules. And if they go to kind of a tri-party CCP thing that will be fine too. And it would alleviate other issues at that point in time.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean between the CCP and I think the FSC even put out a framework last night that talked about cross industry including nonfinancial standardized higher levels of haircut that we are supportive of. So I think the combination of those two things achieve a great deal.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, no, that is great. I asked the question in part because as people are concerned about things like the SIFI buffer increasing and other regulatory capital requirements, I'm just trying to tease out what other options you have to do your client facing business but yet maybe shrink the footings in a way that deal with these ratios without having to, quote/unquote, break up the bank.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, I mean I think, Betsy, we would -- we will do exactly with this what we have done with everyone else to date which is overall we are only going to put our balance sheet to work and allow our clients to use it if the overall relationship over time pays us a sufficient return for that.

We have the ability to do that somewhat methodically and so we are being very surgical and very strategic about how we use our balance sheet. But it is a core strategic product for many of our clients and they want to continue to be able to do that.

So, yes, we could, I mean if you look at the numbers, however you want to cut them, there is -- within our repo business we do have a match book, we have inventory financing as well, we have client suites in our short-term wholesale funding. So there are things we could do, we just don't want to overreact.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks. And then just separately on the payments discussion. In your prepared remarks, Marianne, you highlighted that you are delighted to work with Apple Pay but that you are also working on some other things yourself. Could you speak to what other things you are doing independently?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So, I mean we talked before and you will see more over the coming few months about our own wallet and payment capability so [Chase pay] and Quick Checkout where we would provide the capability for our customers to be able to have a much more seamless experience. Also for merchants to have a lower abandonment rate and continuing with the safety and security of tokenization and other methods.

So we are continuing to work on our own proprietary wallet and payment capabilities that will be piloted and then subsequently launched over the course of the next coming months. And then as obviously the case that we are out of pilot and in production on our end-to-end capability including [Chase net].

So we are signing up merchants at a faster rate than we expected and, again, you will hear more about that later. But our ability to now negotiate bilaterally economics with merchants and provide customers with compelling reasons to continue to bring share to us is also something we are working on.

JAMIE DIMON: So our basic philosophy has been that you, the customer, who want to be able to use your debit cards, your credit cards in a way that you want and that we want to make it available to you whether it is Apple Pay, in-store apps, other people's wallets, Visa wallet, our own wallet -- all which will have benefits, etc.

And as Marianne said, we think that we can also be friendly to merchants with data, with pricing, with simplified contracts. So we are trying to make this an ecosystem that works better for everybody and is far more secure. I have customers on both sides and I'm far more secure.

BETSY GRASECK: And I think is it accurate, Jamie, that you mentioned at a recent conference that you were looking to double the spend in cyber security, is that right?

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I was just estimating it, I was taking a guess that it will double over the next four or five years.

MARIANNE LAKE: And I think it is fair to say, Betsy, that what we are seeing inside the space, not surprisingly, is this relentless constant and evolving set of attacks and we need to be constantly evolving and constantly vigilant in response. So it is entirely reasonable to assume that we will continue to increase our investment over the course of the next several years and we'll -- so it will be larger and we will let you know.

BETSY GRASECK: I mean tokenization --.

JAMIE DIMON: I should clarify that was quoted in the press not accurately because this is one area where the government and businesses have been collaborating really well. And for a long time of course all these government agencies -- and I think we need that because the government sees all kind of attacks and they have a -- they are a fountain of information.

And then also the industry itself collaborates, which is we share information with other banks immediately when we see something happening. So maybe even if something happens to you, you can help one of your brethren avoid a problem like that.

And then cyber goes beyond just yourself. It's making sure that all of your vendors you deal with have proper cyber control, that all the exchanges have proper cyber control. So this is -- we have identified this as a huge effort. We've been very good at it until this recent breach, which we are not going to make excuses for. We will invest any and all things we need to do to get it right.

Our customers are protected, which is critical, but we don't want these things to be happening. But it is going to be a battle. We have already seen a lot of very, very serious -- far more serious than personal data being taken where Social Security numbers, security codes, account numbers, etc.

And we do think that unfortunately there are going to be some wins and losses in this. This is not going to be one of those things where it is going to be absolute and we don't want to be sitting here saying you can absolutely be protected because we think that will put you in a false sense of security.

BETSY GRASECK: Those are all great points. I mean, you could imagine tokenization moving beyond just payments to any interface with clients at some point?

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. Tokenization will be more broadly used and that avoids a certain type of fraud, but not other types of fraud. So you have to look at each one of these things and say, what does it accomplish.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

MARIANNE LAKE: And that certainly helps across the payment space, but there are other areas of vulnerability, obviously.

BETSY GRASECK: Appreciate --.

JAMIE DIMON: And there is (inaudible) security about who came to what systems, when they use private computers with private lines as opposed to public computers from home. There are all these things we're all doing and we've had some great people come in, audit us, and this is one area I suggest to most companies, get someone to come in who is an expert at this. We have our own attacker system where we have our own people trying to get through. So we are always trying to look where we might have a weak spot.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, appreciate the color on that. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Guy Moszkowski, Autonomous.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS: I just wanted to follow-up first of all on the question that Glenn asked about the change in the derivatives contracts. From your perspective doesn't this fundamentally render the contract less attractive for users because of the loss of the automatic bankruptcy preference? And if so, would you expect this is one more potential pressure on the derivatives revenues that you've talked about in the past potentially depressing your revenues by as much as $1 billion?

JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it makes it less attractive. For the one reason if you look at one contract that someone may have in one fund or someone like that yes, it may make it slightly less attractive. But if you look at the improved safety of the system I think it makes it more attractive.

So, if people believe that doing this makes whole system safer, every institution will say well, on the one contract side I would prefer to have the optionality, but for the total I like the fact the system is protected and we have time to work all this out.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Fair point.

JAMIE DIMON: So if the resolution works that is really, really good for everybody. I mean everybody would have preferred that there was a resolution process in place for Lehman. The pain and suffering would have been far less across derivatives even though they didn't have the same -- they had more protection derivatives at the time.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And while we are on that topic then, another thing that happened during the quarter obviously was the Fed and FDIC rejecting the living wills. And I was wondering if you could give us a sense for what changes that might have provoked from your point of view in terms of accelerating some of the simplifications that you were talking about earlier?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I think just an important point of clarification for what it is worth is that the FDIC found the industry's 2013 plans not credible, the Fed did not. So it wasn't a joint agency conclusion that point. And so, we haven't had comments on the 2014 plan yet.

Having said that we, talking for JPMorgan , we made substantial progress even between the 2013 and 2014 submissions. We are in dialogue with our regulators to understand even more detail of what they found as being the limitations or the vulnerabilities in our credibility of the plan. And we are committed to remediating them by 2015.

It has had little bearing on our business simplification agenda because it was already a very broad and appropriate agenda. But we continue to work on all number of things around the place, [crystal] operations, legal entity simplification and we will continue to do so.

JAMIE DIMON: Remember the FSB led by Mark Carney has made it -- be said publicly that the two big remaining pieces are TLAC, which should be done this year, and the derivative stay that would be common harmonization around the globe. And those two pieces are going to be in place and make resolution much more achievable.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right and we should add that obviously the [Issa] protocol was specifically pointed out in that feedback and the industry voluntarily resolved the issue I think very well.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Yes, fair enough. I mean I think a lot of times the press reports forget to pull together all the pieces like that. I hate to beat the regulatory horse too hard here, but one of the things that we were hearing towards the end of the quarter was that our clients were telling us that they were seeing a significant fall off in liquidity in some aspect of the credit markets in particular.

And I was wondering, is there any link between that and some of the new filings that you have had to start doing on a daily basis for -- not just you, but obviously all the dealers on liquidity? And I think some of the Volcker data gathering has started as well. And I was wondering if there was any linkage there?

MARIANNE LAKE: No. So I mean, my point of view on this is that while we have started doing the filing more recently we have been well aware of the requirement for a reasonably long if not very long period of time and have reoriented our business to be compliant in substance with the requirements.

So the fact that we are producing metrics at this point isn't having meaningful impact on our business. It is the case that over the course of the next year between now and the compliance date next July, we do expect to, as an industry, receive feedback on that data and we will have to see how that progresses. But it is our point of view that our business is compliant.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay, that helps. The last one for me -- sorry, go ahead.

JAMIE DIMON: Industry wide as people pushed LCR and capital and some of these rules down to the trading desk that we did see a reduction in inventories, etc. But our view is that market making is a critical role in society and it has to take place. We have 16,000 clients and so we really do focus on serving those clients.

We electrified more of it, some of it will go to clearinghouses, some of it will be -- but we want to be there for the clients. And you will see how the industry sorts out. Some people in the industry are making much more drastic decisions than others. Our decision has been to be there to make markets and just try to adjust to the new rules which may make it a little bit more costly to trade.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: But what I think you hear you saying is that the recent imposition of some of these reporting requirements did not in itself have those liquidity impacts?

JAMIE DIMON: I think it wasn't the reporting requirements, I think it was pushing down of LCR, the cost of capital, the cost of debt and the traders reduced their balance sheets a little bit and they were a little more cautious how they use a balance sheet. And that is industry wide. And then some people said we simply can't stay in these areas. I have seen people exit certain trading areas.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, repo is a good example of that where the level of, not concern, but the level of dialogue with clients around our willingness to continue to commit our balance sheet to that business has increased because others are less willing. And so, we are seeing some of that for sure.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got it. And then the last one for me -- Marianne, you gave some clarification around loan growth in the CIB. But I am not sure I quite understood it. Basically you said the minus 5% headline number was affected by a couple of it sounded like one time-ish kind of things and what the underlying was. But as I said, I'm not sure I really caught your drift.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, okay so let me give you the down piece of it. One of them is not timing, it is just a continuation of a trend where trade finance loans are down substantially year over year (technical difficulty). And so when you look at it the overall loan balance is being impacted by trade, markedly. And then on the client overdraft side, that is something that is a little bit lumpier, you see.

So those two things driving it down. But the point to the comment was a little bit -- not to trivialize reported loan growth, which was still positive, but with those masking underlying performance in our credit portfolio and HFI loans. So our more traditional credit lending continues to grow and grow at 10% plus pace.

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Gerard Cassidy , RBC.

GERARD CASSIDY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Can you share with us -- obviously the federal reserve is asking for more capital for all the larger global SIFI type banks. What is the minimum cushion would you guys be comfortable running against? You mentioned your 50 to 100 basis points might be a little less. How low would you go in your cushion for meeting those new capital guidelines when they come out down the road?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I think a reasonable point of view on that would be at the lower end of that range, at the 50 basis points. So remember, when we -- obviously we will refine it and we will update you. But when we have thoughts about having a buffer it is there in order to protect us from a range of issues including capital volatility driven by AOCI.

We regularly and routinely stress our portfolio to understand how much stress we could see in AOCI in a short period of time and that is going to be one of the principal drivers. So I would say is that a reasonable sort of benchmark for the level that we would go to.

That doesn't mean we have to have that buffer in totality. As I said, buffers phase in between now and January of 2019. So whatever we decide it is, however we communicate that to you, that as well of all of the other buffers, capital conservation buffer and G-SIB we will phase in.

JAMIE DIMON: And CCAR may still be a limiting factor, so --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. I mean the reality -- as Jamie said, the reality is that the way CCAR is operating, while there has been good progress in the communication and dialogue with the regulator, the reality remains that it is still not clear, either quantitatively or qualitatively, exactly how everything is working and therefore it is unlikely to be the case that in this cycle that you are going to see 100% or greater than 100% distribution. That is my view.

GERARD CASSIDY: Yes. No, regarding the return on equity, at Investor Day you guys gave us the through the cycle target of 15% to 16%. Clearly I would assume that in this year's Investor Day when it comes up, if these capital levels are even higher now than what you originally thought when you gave that guidance, it probably will be a bit lower.

What lines of business do you think will see the lower ROE targets, if you decide that you need to lower it through the cycle from the 15% to 16% that you gave us last year?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, so, I mean, just before we sort of get onto the business-by-business lens on it, I mean the reality mathematically is obviously true that if we have higher capital we would prima facie defacto have lower returns. But the reality hasn't been that way over time. So you know acutely that we have added significant capital over the last however many years and have been able to, over time, continue to reorient the business and optimize against it to deliver strong returns.

So could there be a decline in returns. Obviously we will have to see what the rules look like. Clearly at the moment the most clear and present danger relates to higher G-SIB surcharges on short-term wholesale funding. So in the first quarter impact of it would obviously have an impact on directing those businesses and products in the CIB. But obviously if the Company is holding more capital we will look more broadly.

But I don't think it is a foregone conclusion that you are going to see a pro rata decline in our returns. And obviously we are continuing to focus on our expenses in making sure that the overall business is as efficient as possible.

GERARD CASSIDY: Is it fair to say that today's ROE in today's quarter of about 10% -- which obviously is below your through the cycle number -- is it primarily an interest rate issue that is holding it back or is there some other issue - the high elevated expenses that you are running due to all the new regulations and stuff?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean our 10% ROE, 13% ROTCE, remember the target is an ROTCE target. It's obviously -- right now in 2014 we are in a bit of a cyclical low in a number of ways and elevated expenses. So it is cyclical lows in mortgage, at least for the first half of the year cyclical lows and some secular headwinds in the market space.

Yes, we are reaching a peak in terms of control expenses, so that is in part contributing reserve releases are lower albeit that credit remains benign, but at a relative matter they are lower. But we are staring efficiencies in the face across our businesses over the course of the next two years.

So control costs will decline, CCB will deliver improvements in expense, CIB will also, rates will be a meaningful piece. Clearly you've seen our sensitivity to rising rates is relatively significant, but it is not the only piece. When the economy generally recovers, when loan growth recovers and volatility recovers, all those things, good things happen.

GERARD CASSIDY: Shifting gears, if we look at leverage lending the federal reserve has come out recently concerned about some of the underwriting that is going on there. And I think they even pointed out that leverage lending now will be used in CCAR possibly from a qualitative standpoint. Can you guys give us any color on what your understanding is of what is going on with leverage lending today? And will it be included in CCAR?

MARIANNE LAKE: Just to talk about what will be included in CCAR, the truth is we don't know. So what you have seen we have also read. But that doesn't constitute any kind of guidance. We haven't received guidance yet, so we are going to have to wait to see that. It wouldn't be entirely surprising if there was some sort of leverage stress in there quantitatively; I can't speak to qualitatively.

And then, yes, there has been more stringent guidance on leverage lending from the regulators over the course of the last year. And we have taken a fairly strict line on applying that. So it has in part been one of the reasons why we believe we have seen lower loan growth in some of our business than we would otherwise have seen.

GERARD CASSIDY: You guys mentioned (multiple speakers) yes.

JAMIE DIMON: And it is going to get a little stricter on the refi part of the leverage loans. And obviously whatever the terms are, we will meet the terms and some of that business will go to nonbanks or some banks who are not regulated by the OCC and the Fed.

GERARD CASSIDY: You guys gave some very good numbers on the mobile app usage by your customers. What is the penetration rate of your customer base that uses that mobile app?

MARIANNE LAKE: It is still relative to 20-million-something customers in -- households and 23 million, something like that, households in the retail sales space is still relatively low. From recollection, and we will check the numbers for you, I think it is in that 2 million to 3 million range. But nevertheless -- no?

JAMIE DIMON: Mobile was much higher than that.

MARIANNE LAKE: Mobile is higher? Okay, we will get back to you.

GERARD CASSIDY: Okay. And then finally. you guys talked about Apple Pay --.

MARIANNE LAKE: I'm sorry, I'm sorry --.

GERARD CASSIDY: -- can you show --

MARIANNE LAKE: I'm sorry, it's 18 million.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, it is 18 million out of --.

MARIANNE LAKE: 18 million.

JAMIE DIMON: I don't know is that individuals or households? It's a huge amount.

MARIANNE LAKE: Customers.

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, customers.

MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry.

GERARD CASSIDY: You guys mentioned Apple Pay and the opportunities there. What are some of the -- where could you see the growth? But at the same time where can Apple Pay cannibalize some of your businesses or are there any that will be cannibalized?

JAMIE DIMON: Look, again, our view is to, if you are a client and you want to use your Apple phone to pay with NFC at a merchant, that is fine, we don't want to say you can't use your JPMorgan Chase credit card or debit card. And like we said, we're going to be in other people's wallets too. And we're going to have our own which we think will have some competitive advantage.

So will it cannibalize? Sure. But we are not against cannibalizing our own business or disrupting ourselves if we are building a better business and are gaining share. Our goal to gain share. We do believe a little bit in -- you know when Jeff Bezos says, your margin is my opportunity, we want to be the people that are coming up with the new ideas and stuff that are getting more of our customers using our stuff and happier. And if it reduces certain margins somewhere, so be it.

GERARD CASSIDY: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: A follow-up on the loan question from before. You mentioned a little bit more caution with leverage loans. In the past you said you didn't want to compete too much in the commercial space if it's getting too competitive. There's been some current concerns about auto lending with regulators.

So my question is, slide 1 highlights that your core loans are up 1% quarter over quarter and the same slide in the second quarter said that core loans were up 4% quarter over quarter. So my question is, are you simply getting more cautious in the loans that you provide or is there a little bit less demand in the market? Really trying to get to is loan growth decelerating?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, look, if you look at year-over-year trends, they continue to be in the -- I mean I think the first quarter year over year was 4%, 8% in the second, 7% in the third. I think we are not expecting those year-over-year tends to decelerate.

Obviously quarter over quarter things can be impacted just by the timing of closing loans. So fundamentally I would say, no, we aren't seeing significant deceleration quarter over quarter within continued relative momentum. Solid across the board with obviously more challenges in the C&I space.

MIKE MAYO: Separately your expense guidance is now for over $58 billion, you said some of that is due to comp. Is any of that increase in guidance due not to comp?

MARIANNE LAKE: Relative to the 58 plus or minus that [was being said], no, it is principally in higher revenues on higher market performance.

JAMIE DIMON: We always said that might be the case.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JAMIE DIMON: So we are meeting our overhead numbers and the comp itself will bounce around a little bit. Remember, in the old days we used to break out IB comp in total for that reason. But --.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, separate -- yes.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, sorry.

MIKE MAYO: Separately which capital ratio is your binding constraint? And using that ratio, what should we use in our model three years out? And I know that's a tough question with all the moving parts, but what is your best guess?

MARIANNE LAKE: Okay. So just in terms of what is our binding constraint at the moment, it is CET1, so Basel III advanced capital, risk-based capital at the margin. So it is not to say that the other ratios leverage liquidity and the like aren't [comfortably] around it. But that -- and even stress capital. But that is currently our binding constraint.

It is very hard for us to give us a point of view where you should do this new model three years out when we are staring potentially new rules in the face in the next two months. As I said earlier, we are expecting over the course of the next 12 months that we will continue to accrete capital at 2% or above our 10.5% which is basically in-line with what you guys all have in your models.

Beyond that it is our expectation that, hopefully anyway, putting new rules aside that by the time we are in our fourth or fifth cycle of CCAR when you've made substantial industry wide progress in the sort of non-quantitative aspects of CCAR where we have more credible resolutions and the like that we will be able to me more aggressive in our ability to seek capital distribution capability.

So outside of any changes in rules we would hope at the end of 2015 into 2016 CCAR to be able to have -- payout ratios are much higher. But we will have to see.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And then last question. On the supplement page 6, this is a smaller item, but it just kind of stands out. Your rate on trading liabilities declined from 48 basis points down to 12 basis points in just three months. Is there anything unusual there?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, there is. So about half of that I would call -- approximately half of that I would call relatively normal, but included in that result there is actually a one-time item associated with accounting for the previous interest accrual that we released in the quarter, which is one time. You should expect that interest expense to go back up next quarter to something more normal.

MIKE MAYO: And how much -- what was the dollar amount of that impact?

MARIANNE LAKE: A little less than $100 million.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch .

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Just wanted to follow up with two quick questions. The first is, Marianne, if we put together everything that you have said on expenses so far in this call, is it fair to assume that without rates the efficiency -- adjusted efficiency ratio of 59% can continue to improve in 2015 and 2016?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yeah. So I think -- yes, it is our -- it is our belief that we should be able to manage the ratio to be stable to improving over time, ultimately getting down to something much more in the mid-50%, but that is dependent on revenue growth associated with rates but not limited to rates.

So in the absence of rate but, by the way just to point out, that it is still our case that based upon continued improvement in the domestic rate economy that rates will start to rise in the middle of next year. But having said that, even without rates we would hope to be able to continue to maintain the discipline to have that ratio be broadly flat to down.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. And the second follow-up question is, given your expectations for rates to rise in the middle of next year are you still -- and the progress that you -- continued progress you make on deposit share are you still expecting $100 billion in deposit outflows in that case?

MARIANNE LAKE: So since we talked about the $100 billion estimated deposit outflows associated with liquidity draining out of the system, remember that was predicated on believing that it was possible that the Fed would use the reverse repo program much more -- in much more size than is likely to be the case today for two reasons.

One is that obviously they have made changes to the term deposit facility that allows them to now be LCR eligible, which is helpful in terms of providing another tool in their toolkit.

And the second is that in September, as you know, the RRP was capped in total at $300 billion. That cap may or may not be permanent. I'm sure it will be recalibrated over time. But it looks like it will be unlikely to reach the $1 billion that would have driven the $100 billion -- the $100 billion -- sorry the $1 trillion that would have driven the $100 billion.

So. you can make your decision about whether it is $300 million or $500 million in the fullness of time and scale our operating deposit outflows back relative to that, knowing of course that it is already in operation at $300 billion right now.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Brennan Hawken, UBS .

BRENNAN HAWKEN, ANALYST, UBS : So, appreciate that the repo book is substantially client driven. Was maybe hoping that you guys could give us some sense for how much of your repo book is firm financing versus facilitation?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, Brennan, we haven't disclosed that. I would -- a large chunk of it is client driven, that is what we will say.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, worth a shot.

MARIANNE LAKE: A large chunk -- a larger chunk of it -- the larger chunk of it.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay.

JAMIE DIMON: We have also lengthened the firm financing part of it --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JAMIE DIMON: -- to be more compliant with LCR, etc.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, that is fair. And I just wanted to try to square something here and maybe I am reading just a little too much into it. You had said that October on the capital markets side has been a bit mixed. But you have also at the same time brought up your expense guidance and it seems like it is driven by expected or potentially a component of comp and capital markets.

So are those two at odds? Are you just more optimistic that maybe what we're seeing here in October is not necessarily some sort of dramatic shift but a temporary bout in bad volatility? Or how can we square those two?

MARIANNE LAKE: So I would square it in two ways. The first is already did have a better performance in the third quarter then would have been anticipated in our previous guidance given that that guidance was given during the sort of harder times of the second quarter. So that is already in our run rate so to speak in terms of the comp that would accrue to that.

And then if you sort of go back and, in the fullness of time, look at the transcript, I did say if the performance continues into the fourth quarter. So it will depend.

We have always said, and evidently maybe we should strip out comp from our adjusted expenses. But we have always said that the adjusted expense absolute number in any period is obviously going to be calibrated to the performance of the market-related businesses. And clearly you would wave in good revenues every day at a 32% comp to revenue ratio. So that is really all we were saying, nothing more subtle than that.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay, okay, thanks for that. And then appreciate that there is not much color potentially to be added on this charge tied to FX. But just is it possible to let us know if it is tied to a particular geography?

MARIANNE LAKE: No, no, it is not possible to talk about it in any more detail, I am afraid.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Okay.

MARIANNE LAKE: It's just -- suffice to say that we are working with a number of regulators across a number of jurisdictions.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: All right, that is fair. And then last one for me. So in looking at the NIM simulation that you guys have provided, and then taking a look at that in light of the interest rate shock disclosures you've got in your Q's, it looks like a 200 basis point rate shock adds about half of what you are looking for in a normalized rate environment.

So I guess does that mean that subsequent years sort of the benefit of rolling the portfolio into higher rates is going to exceed the higher deposit cost by about $4 billion to $5 billion? And then is there a particular time period that we should think about that or is it going to be too heavily influenced by competitive dynamics?

MARIANNE LAKE: So you are right that when you roll forward beyond the first 12 months you do get the benefit of being able to continue to reinvest deposits as they mature up the curve in terms of their invest -- the underlying investment. So that is the compounding effect of what you are seeing in our earnings and risk shock.

But what we showed I think in -- I'm going to cease to recall it, but maybe it was in the Barclays conference in 2013 -- is that you would expect once rates start to rise, if they rise in a somewhat expected fashion. So obviously it depends on what rate [party] you want to put on that, that you could expect the cumulative NII to be in our [impact] in three to four years.

JAMIE DIMON: Remember the benefit is more for the first hundred, a little bit less the second hundred, a little bit less the third hundred, a little bit less the fourth hundred, because there is increasing repricing of deposits at that level. And we don't know exactly what the yield curve will be four years out, but --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Right.

JAMIE DIMON: And also we do embed in that our own estimates of competition and repricing.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes.

JAMIE DIMON: But --.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. That is a very good point actually, Brennan. Our scenario does contemplate not only a more normal loan to deposit ratio, more normal interest bearing versus non-interest-bearing deposit and also a higher (inaudible) on retail deposits just given the LCR competitive dynamics, technology advances and the like. So to the best of our ability we've tried to bake that in and that is included in our number.

BRENNAN HAWKEN: Sure, sure. Okay, thanks, that is fair.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: A tactical follow-up just on the balance sheet. With the non-interest-bearing deposits basically being the fastest growing category of the balance sheet and the resulting asset, the deposit with banks also being the fastest-growing asset on the balance sheet.

Just within that context of what you just walked through with Brennan, I am just wondering what changes structurally with the way you think about reinvesting in the securities portfolio with rates as low as they are now. Loan growth is okay, but to your point you are being somewhat selective on -- and want to be careful with pricing and credit.

So, just from a -- more so taking the next year or so out, how are your thoughts changing at all with respect to what you do with these deposits given that they might actually not flow out as much given that change to the ROP function?

MARIANNE LAKE: Right. So the deposit -- so in part not totality, in part the deposits that were likely to outflow through the RRP were non-operating deposits. And non-operating deposits we do not count for significant liquidity value in the Firm; we fundamentally have them on deposit at central banks at the Fed.

And so, if they stay -- we will come back to whether we would be willing to let them stay, but if they stay they will continue to basically be treated in that way. And they are not included in terms of our assumption around asset sensitivity and forward-looking NII.

Obviously over time we are in the same way as we talked about repo we are looking at non-operating deposits for our clients in the context of their overall relationship. And so, that is another valuable use of our balance sheet with leverage capital and the like against it. And in the fullness of time we will expect the overall relationship to pay for that. But we are going to wait and see some of those dynamics play out.

So other than that I'll just go back to the earlier comments I made that we do have a high level of HQLA, not in [cash], not in securities, but it is in order to make sure that we have adequate liquidity both under our own stresses most importantly, but also under LCR and NSFR. And we feel good and at modest buffers relative to them.

JAMIE DIMON: At the typical quarter end a lot of large clients leave a lot of deposits here which obviously are not necessarily good for us in terms of LCR or capital, etc., and we will be looking at how we manage those client relationships over time too.

KEN USDIN: Understood, okay. And (multiple speakers).

JAMIE DIMON: The other thing you remember of the securities portfolio is that as rates go up the duration of that extends on its own.

MARIANNE LAKE: Correct.

JAMIE DIMON: And so, we will be managing that. And, yes, we might invest it longer at one point, but we are in a very conservative position right now.

KEN USDIN: Yes, okay. Got it. And then secondly, just two quick ones on mortgage. Default servicing costs have pretty much stabilized the last couple of quarters at a good level that you had talked about getting down to $500 million total by the fourth. And I am just wondering how much more room is there given that improvement in underlying trends that you're continuing to see for that to be a benefit to that cost side of the equation going forward?

MARIANNE LAKE: So we are continuing to see credit trends improve, delinquencies come down, modification pipelines -- all the metrics are coming down. Obviously they are coming down from a much smaller place this year than that were last and the year before. So the pace of improvement or the relative pace is slower.

But we are expecting that to continue down through $500 million and into the $400 million's in 2015. And then just more longer-term, you know that we are focused on ensuring that through the next cycle we have a smaller delinquency portfolio. And so, a more normal level would be substantially less than this.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And I noticed that your (multiple speakers).

MARIANNE LAKE: Sorry, that is a longer-term view.

KEN USDIN: Yes. And I noticed also that underneath the origination improvement this quarter there was a decent jump in correspondent. I am just not -- I just wanted to ask if you are doing anything differently in terms of market share opportunities on the mortgage side now that things have shaken out a little bit or any change in your underlying philosophy on where you are looking at originations?

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes. So I mean we talked last quarter about the fact that we had loss share, a combination of things, primarily our strategy around the government mortgage space but also a little bit of share in the what I would call in our target segment. So we have made that back.

So in some part it is just continue to leverage our balance sheet properly, do very granular marginal pricing to really focus on changing and improving our customer operating processes. So across the board we just continue to get very granular and try and be as competitive as we can.

KEN USDIN: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Steve Chubak, Nomura.

STEVE CHUBAK, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT : Marianne, I appreciated the color you had given on the RWA guidance. I suppose one thing that we have been hearing from a lot of clients, or at least concern from clients, is this notion of regulatory gold plating. Essentially the us regulators adopting tougher standards than those that are being enforced in other areas around the globe.

And I just wanted to get a sense as to how that is informing your thinking about RWA mitigation plans. You reaffirmed the guidance at Investor Day, but what should we expect in the event that a tougher capital as well as TLAC requirement is in fact enforced against US G-SIBs?

MARIANNE LAKE: So, just to be very clear, it may be slightly -- (inaudible) slightly higher than Investor Day in terms of our guidance. So, look, obviously any guidance that we give you, and no good deed goes unpunished, but any guidance we give you is always predicated on based upon what we know today. And so, if something changes that would change that point of view we will obviously have to recalibrate it.

But just prima fascia having the requirement to have extra long-term debt or loss absorbing capital and/or capital wouldn't necessarily prima fascia change the overall RWA we have. I mean you have to be careful to ensure that by having higher levels of capital there's not an incentive to want to stretch in the credit box, but we have very tight credit discipline. So I wouldn't see that being a material change in the outlook. But obviously if there is a change in rules that directly affect RWA that would do.

STEVE CHUBAK: All right, thank you. That is very helpful. And then just switching gears to the investment banking outlook that you had given. I appreciated the color which sounded quite constructive on the backlogs for M&A and ECM. And I guess not just you but the industry in general hasn't given much commentary on the outlook for debt capital markets activity.

It has been challenged this year. I think that was something which many of us had expected just given the strength that we had experienced over the last couple of years. But I didn't know if you can just provide some updated thoughts on that revenue stream in particular.

MARIANNE LAKE: Yes, I mean, look, it is the case that a lot of refinancing has already happened, so the debt maturity wall is smaller, although rates are lower than we may have expected at this point in time. So I would -- so, therefore yes, it is reasonable to assume that there is going to be some continued headwinds. But having said that, I think there is going to be windows of opportunity. So we are going to -- M&A and ECM are more constructive and likely to be buoyant, but I think debt capital market still has windows of opportunity.

STEVE CHUBAK: Okay, great, that is it for me. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time.

JAMIE DIMON: Folks, thank you very much for joining us --

MARIANNE LAKE: Thank you.

JAMIE DIMON: And we will talk to you soon.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141016eaae0012x
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,036 words
   PD
18 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to JP Morgan Chase's fourth quarter 2005 earnings call. This call is being recorded. Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Please refer to JP Morgan Chase's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a description of the factors that could cause the Firm's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] At this time, I would like to turn the call over to JP Morgan's -- JP Morgan Chase's Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mike Cavanagh. Mr. Cavanagh, please go ahead.  

   TD
MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Great, thanks. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us today. I'm going to spend a few minutes talking through the quarter, and then hand it over to Jamie, and he's going to cover outlook, then we'll wrap it up with some questions at the end. As usual we're working off a presentation that's available on our website. So for those of you who have that in front of you please go to the third slide, fourth quarter earnings, where I just hit some of the highlights in the numbers for the quarter, then I'll drill into a little bit of detail.  

So for the quarter it was $0.73 of operating earnings. In those results, as expected, credit card reflected the spike in bankruptcy charges related to the new legislation that went into effect in the quarter. In the investment bank, we had very strong investment banking fees and very weak trading results. On the retail side, we're back to seeing good deposit and continued account growth. And then in commercial banking, treasury and security services, and AWM, we continue to see strong year-over-year earnings growth. We got to our 2.2 billion annualized merger savings exit rate as we left the year and are on track for the 3 billion we've committed to. Capital strength was strong with a Tier 1 estimate of 8.5%, and we got done $1 billion worth of buyback in the quarter.  

Flipping to slide four, you see the $0.73 of operating earnings, which is 2.6 billion in raw dollars. Down below you see the defined set of non-operating items we've been tracking which is our merger costs, litigation expense. Those were in that positive in fact this quarter so reported net income was a little bit higher this quarter at $0.76 a share.  

Moving on to the next slide. I just want to talk you through some significant items that were included in operating results. As I said, the nonoperating items we defined on the prior page are a finite set of items so these all are flowing through our operating results of $0.73. So as you know we previously announced the sale of Brown & Company and had a $1.2 billion pretax gain there. We'll talk about the bankruptcy law change. Next we had some discretionary capital losses taken both in our investment portfolio and treasury as well as a decision to sell some hybrid ARMs in our retail business. That triggered losses there as well. We've accelerated the vesting of certain out-of-the-money options. This is well described in our press release so I won't go into too much detail here, but simply put the Company has been expensing options since 2003, and this relates to an out-of-the-money award that goes back to 2001. So I will leave it at that and take questions later off the press release really. Lastly, we had continued seeing positive credit trends on the wholesale side so we had a reduction in the wholesale allowance.  

Slide 6 just shows you how the natural P&L line by line breaks quarter over quarter and year-over-year for operating earnings. I won't spend time here. Then page 7 gives you a summary of how those operating earnings trend year-over-year and quarter over quarter on a by line of business basis.  

So it gets it straight to slide 8 where we go through the details of the investment bank and spend a second here. So here you see the circled number. We had operating earnings of 664 million, flat for the year, year-over-year, down from a very strong third quarter. On the fee side, the 1.2 billion of fees that you see here is our highest level since the first quarter of 2000, and it caps a very strong year for us on the fee side in the investment bank, which we feel very good about. The next couple of rows on the market side, really the story here is driven by poor trading results. So we had 900 million in trading revenues for the quarter which brings us to about 6 billion for the year, which is up a bit from 2004. But our quarterly distribution of those results remains too volatile compared to our competitors.  

Trading revenues were down from a record level in the prior quarter and as we said then, very strong results in our commodities business drove us in part to that record level. This quarter we gave some of the commodities results back, but we still finished the year with very good results in commodities and we are pleased with the progress we made in building out our capability there. Beyond commodities we had poor results across a variety of trading areas, generally due to being positioned wrong for changes in U.S. interest rates. I will leave it there for now and Jamie will comment a bit when we get to the outlook.  

So that's it really for the investment bank and we'll move on now to slide 9, retail financial services. Here you see some of the drivers of the business here which in general we continue to feel very good about the momentum in our retail business despite the pressures caused by the yield curve. So on this page you see checking counts continue strong growth, up 8% year-over-year, deposits back on a growth trend, up 3% year-over-year and up about 3 billion versus the prior quarter. And we're continuing to get good cross-sell through the branches of credit cards and mortgage loans. We've also been adding, as you know, 99 new branches opened in the quarter, ATMs are up, personal bankers are up, and then in the mortgage business the same thing, with more sales people, more offices year-over-year. So again, these are the real drivers of growth in this business and we feel good about what we've been accomplishing there.  

Slide 10 just takes you through the financials which as I've already said there's pressure on the business given where the environment and the rates environment and the competitive environment. So up in the top left you see that the apparent increase in earnings year-over-year to $803 million in the quarter. In the top right, we strip out some of the extraordinary things going on in those numbers, including the charge we took last quarter related to Katrina. So stripping that out you come to the bottom left box and you see that essentially earnings are flat and again that's driven by the competitive pressure offset by the progress in the growth side that you see from the prior page as well as very good expense management in the business.  

Moving on to card services, on slide 11. A complicated story here given the bankruptcy charges, but 302 million of earnings for the quarter, growth in outstandings and charge volume for the business. But in the third bullet on this page I will just highlight that we, in bringing together our two legacy company merchant services business into one agreement with our partner there we've conformed the accounting and deconsolidated Bank One's former Paymentech results which creates no change in profits but reduces revenues and expenses and pretax income versus the prior period. So it makes some comparisons here very difficult and contributes to the drop in revenues you're seeing versus prior quarter.  

So on the next page, slide 12, what we do is we give a breakout of how those two changes, the bankruptcy estimate and the deconsolidation of Paymentech, adjusted the fourth quarter and in the case of Paymentech what it would have been in the prior periods had we been on the same accounting basis in those prior periods. So just commenting a bit, again you see revenues up year-over-year and flat to slightly down versus the prior quarter. We show you the adjusted margin a little bit, continued compression here which is the same story we've been talking about, driving growth with a change in mix to lower rate balances in their intro period.  

On the credit cost side, just want to point out this is our estimate of the impact of bankruptcy in the quarter, bringing us back to a more normalized level after you adjust out to the impact of $5.75, pretax or so in the quarter. One comment to make here is that we left the allowance for loan loss unchanged in the quarter. So we did not see a release of loan loss reserves, and that's looking ahead into next year. Jamie will comment further, but the benefit likely in the first half of the year due to the bankruptcy spike offset by the effect of the new minimum payment rules in the second half of the year which has enough uncertainty about it that reserves are staying unchanged as we go into 2006. Lastly, expenses are down year-over-year and quarter over quarter.  

Moving on to slide 13, commercial banking. Here you see earnings circled of $289 million, up strongly versus the prior year. That's driven by very good growth in the drivers of the balance sheet. We had had loans up 7% year-over-year, liability balances, deposits up 11% year-over-year and that's really coming across all the segments in the commercial bank. That drove us to record revenues of 937 million in the quarter.  

The next slide takes to you treasury and security services. This business had record earnings of 300 million in the quarter, bringing a pretax margin to 29% and again up on strong growth in liability balances, which were up 16% versus a year ago and underlying growth in terms of both existing and new customers and the volumes of services they're using from us. On the asset and wealth management slide, page 15, 342 million in earnings off of another record in assets under management of 847 billion. There we've seen very strong continued flows in the retail side, particularly in Europe and in the institutional side as well. And as you know, this business is affected by the sale of BrownCo and so we lost some of the earnings out of BrownCo, and you'll see that affecting 2006 results in that business.  

Next, slide 16, corporate. Here you see the losses we took in the treasury portfolio and the gain on the sale of Brown & Company, but the underlying results really driven by a weaker quarter in private equity than the ones we've been seeing but still strong in our minds of 289 million of private equity gains, driving some of the variance. The treasury results excluding securities gains or losses, which are stripped out, show a little bit of improvement versus the prior periods which is what we've been expecting and would expect to continue although it will be a little lumpy. Lastly, other corporate. That's where we see the impact of the accelerated options vesting as well as the impact of the Jobs Creation Act, repatriation of profits in the tax line. There were a variety of other things that went on contributing to increases in corporate expenses in the quarter that bring it to a level that's higher than what I would consider to be normal. Jamie will give a little guidance in a minute.  

Lastly, before I hand it over to Jamie, on slide 17, you just see the capital strength of the Company, 8.5% Tier 1 on lower risk-weighted assets in the quarter and a little bit of equity growth in the quarter despite the buyback of $1 billion worth of shares. So with that I will hand it over to Jamie to talk about next year's outlook.  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, CEO, COO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Mike, thank you very much. First, let me just start by saying that we are going to be sending out, because we haven't sent this out yet, a invitation to everybody for an investor day, and it is February 28, from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at 270 Park. We're going to give you all a chance to listen to our heads of business talk about their businesses, their growth plans, their kind of outlook, and some of the things they're trying to accomplish. We haven't done it for a long time. We think it would be a productive thing to do. So that's February 28.  

And if you go to page 19, in what we sent out, or on the website, let me just give you, make some comments about -- these are not necessarily forecasts, but comments about the business and some of the things we see looking forward. First thing is we are assuming right now a steady state economy and basically implied rate curve. I think obviously you all -- a lot of the things I'm about to say you all make your own assumptions about the economy and what you expect to happen, but my comments kind of assume that. Right now when it comes to interest rates we are fairly neutral as best we can across our businesses, and Mike already mentioned the flat curve does squeeze some business, which I'll mention a little bit specifically.  

We do expect wholesale credit costs to trend more to normal. I'll give you very specific comments when I talk about the investment bank in commercial. And Katrina, as you all know we put up $40 million for Katrina last quarter. There was nothing this quarter. Last quarter, the number was the low end of a range, as required by the accounting rules, so we do expect that we might have some adjustments for Katrina. Still likely to be higher rather than lower, but we don't expect to be really material to our numbers. We do think we got our cost saves this year. I will show you some expense numbers. And we expect to accomplish the $800 million next year and hopefully make a lot of progress. We should point out my comments also -- we don't assume that we're going to be taking any investment security or treasury gains during the course very the year, or MSR risk management gains. Obviously those are both possible.  

Page 20 gives you expenses. We try to keep it very simple. Just look at the total firm expense was 35.4 billion to 35.5 kind of flat. That's all in. If you back out investment banking total comp, that's salaries, benefits, and incentive comp we were down by a little over $500 million. In reality, since we added approximately 800 from acquisitions we were down by 1.3 billion. And if you eyeball that, we said we'd get about 1.8 billion of cost saves. So the 1.8 billion of cost saves, the acquisitions we kind of accomplished it. Business as usual expenses were up a little bit after that, and if you're looking into next year, again, looking expense ex-IB total comp, you should expect a number kind of flat. That means we're going to get the $800 million of cost saves. We'll spend about $200 million more on acquisitions that have already been done, and that business as usual all in will be up about 500, which I think shows pretty good cost control because we are continuing to invest in our businesses and marketing systems, et cetera. So if there are questions we'll try to take those a little bit later.  

Page 21, capital. I just want to mention we're at 8.5% Tier 1 capital. I think based upon the fact that we think our -- our balance sheet is getting stronger and stronger which we like, and that stronger isn't just a Tier 1 capital estimate, we're fully funded in pension plans, we think our loan loss reserves are strong and adequate, we think our legal reserves, obviously there's always uncertainty there but we've been very prudent, our controls and disciplines are getting better. As long as we think the balance sheet is strong we really don't need more than 8.5. And because we'll be generating more and more capital because we have less merger costs and other one-time costs going forward, so our retained earnings are going up quickly, and we expect only modest increases in risk rate assets in our risk profile going forward.  

Page 22, shows you how we allocate capital by line of businesses. We made some modest changes here. I think philosophically it is important you understand that we think that each company should kind of be a A-rated company if it would stand alone. That's very important that financial companies properly look at capital and return on capitals, and so we've kind of done that. We did it at a very detailed level. What you see here is obviously the consolidated and the key rationale. I'll give you a little more detail in a second. And this only is tangible capital which is all capital -- all equity minus goodwill. There are some intangibles in here. I want to point out that going forward, all intangibles including goodwill will be included in the lines of business. The only reason we back some of that out is basically because the Bank One acquisition had allocated big chunks of goodwill to various parts of the Company based upon what was purchase accounted and what wasn't purchase accounted, but going forward you really should also expect a return on a goodwill. There's a lot more detail to support these numbers. You should feel free to call Mike or Julia if you want to get that detail.  

And going forward we're very deliberate how we look at and allocate capital. Just to give you a quick note, for example, the investment bank of 20 billion, our internal measures show that we need a little bit less than that for economics, but it's about 4% of net assets, net assets being assets minus match book and stock borrowed. For card, it's about 10% of managed receivables. Again, I put that fairly conservative kind of number. For everybody else it's about 7% of Tier 1, or some direct competitor comparisons, but we do think it's such a good benchmark. The only big changes here was card went up by a little less than 3 billion, and commercial bank by a little less than 2 billion, which obviously changes the returns a little bit.  

If you go to page 24, I'm going to give you some comments on each business now, and then some overall. We do think that -- and you might notice we've changed it from the aspirations to target. Target is not saying it's best in class, it's not a forecasts it's simply a recognition that that's what we should be trying to earn in these businesses. We do think that a 20% ROE through the cycle, and I think that's an important statement what we mean by through the cycle, because obviously you have major trends that happen in these businesses. That would imply in the investment bank you do a lot better than 20%, in the best at times, and the acknowledgement that it will be 10% or possibly worse in the worst of times. We think we're working hard to get there in '07. By implication we won't be there in '06, we have a lot of investing, a lot of things to do but we are pretty comfortable with building a very good investment bank.  

Looking forward, the IB feed pipeline looks good. I think that's true for the whole street. Mike mentioned the trading revenues were $6 billion in 2005. We do expect to do better next year and hopefully be less volatile. If you look at the 6 billion we had two great quarters and two not so good quarters. We think that's too much. The good news is, we have added and diversified the trading stream. We've added energy. We're very happy with the year to year results. The results in '05 obviously with some volatility by quarter. We've added more mortgages, more in asset-backs. Including, we continue to be a leader in derivatives and credit and interest rates and so we're going to continue to build it. We do think we will do better next year and be less volatile, partially because some of the errors simply won't take place in '05.  

The credit portfolio you should acknowledge in your models that we had $800 million, approximately 800 million benefit from taking down loan loss reserves. We do expect that to go away. So we expect that there will be -- it won't go all the way back to normal, and you have to make your own estimates that we'll have a credit cost this year anywhere from 10, 20, 30, 40 basis points, depending on what you really think is going to happen to the credit cycle and the economy. And we had -- you should expect about 43% comp to revenues, that we think is pretty appropriate versus peers. I want to mention a couple of quick things here. That number is a little bit higher than you see in the past. Part of that is geography. We are putting into the investment bank some of the things the investment bank will be paying their comp directly now, and we just made the adjustments for that. That's year-over-year.  

Also, since we run this company differently than some of the other investment banks, there are numbers not in there, which if you adjusted, and that's really for the credit portfolio and a lot of expenses paid at corporate, where there were bonuses paid, that would be paid through the incentive comp line in the investment bank. This number would be closer to 45 or 46% on a comparable basis to our competitors. It's important from all angles that this number be both competitive, we have to be competitive to win in the business, and some of our shareholders do mention sometimes they want to make sure that we are willing and able to pay our performers, and yes we are. Also hopefully there will be some consistency in how we accrue this number going forward. I do want to point out that when you really look at the economics of the business, we do look at the economics a little bit differently, but kind of a GAAP public reporting, this is probably the best benchmark we can give you. The investment bank is also making investments a lot of which show up in the comp line. They're not just sales people and traders and investment bankers but it's also systems programmers, because we do have some work to do there. We do think we're going to make this a far more efficient bank going into the end of '06 and '07.  

Retail, on the next page. We also have a bunch of changes, so here we're giving you an ROE target for the consolidated retail business of 28 to 30%. We are now -- we're going to set up a community banking segment so you will actually see it for the first time after the first quarter, and that is -- this is the only way we could figure to make it actually comparable to everybody else. And when we have the investor day on February 28, Charlie Scharf will give you a lot more detail on this, but on that comparable basis we would expect the overhead ratio, ex the amortization of certain intangibles, to be about 50%. Obviously that will be determined a little bit by how much we aggressively are in the branch build program. So as long as we continue to build a lot of branches that number will probably be a little bit higher than that and we'll give you some numbers there. In mortgage and auto, we're going to have ROE targets. I would put the mortgage one at 20% the auto at 15.  

Looking forward next year, we do expect that NII will be about flat. You have a lot of moving parts in here. You have higher volumes in certain asset categories, certain loans, and we expect higher volumes in deposits, but we do expect deposit margin under pressure as long rates stay low over time. We do expect fee revenue up. You might have noticed credit card sales are up 40% more, loans up 100%, debit cards are up, checking accounts are up, so we do expect fee revenue to be up. We don't expect any MSR risk management revenue. I just want to point out we hope to have some but that is a volatile number and it easily moves 50 to 75 million a quarter or more.  

Credit we expect to be stable, and that's because assuming we have a healthy environment, and expenses are up very modestly which we think is pretty good because we are continuing to do a lot in refurbishing our branches, adding ATMs, adding sales people, adding loan adding bankers, and we're offsetting a lot of that with additional efficiencies, but hopefully that will set us up in good stead for '07 and '08. In the credit card business we think the 3.5% ROE is approximately right, and we have a plus or minus here. We think that number, you should look at through a cycle also meaning that in very good times you could do better. I think I would put last year and the year before for a lot of folks as the very good times, very low interest rates, and relatively benign credit. Over time, we're going to probably change our targets here because it is really a gross number to look at return assets when a lot of the businesses don't have assets. Our spend businesses, our merchant processing business, so we're going to give you a little bit more detail when we talk on February 28. But we still think it's roughly a good measure and roughly a good target.  

I should point out, and Mike mentioned it, also we don't fully expect to be there in '06, part of it is due to continuous spend in our businesses and part of it is just rates and the competitive cycle but we do hope to get there sometime in '07. We have two major waves running through this business in '06, which I think some of you have in your models and some don't. And I'm talking about just charge-offs now that min pay -- the bankruptcy surge in '05 will give us a benefit. It's a very approximate guess of about $500 million, but that will be the first two quarters of '06. Min pay, and this is even a rougher estimate, will probably be a negative 300 in the last two quarters of '06, and that will move around. We'll give you more detail when, in fact, we do know it. And that will also continue into '07 a little bit. That will generally -- these things will generally effect reserves but possibly not a lot since your reserves are looking forward 9 or 12 months. But in the charge-offs you are going to have some pretty big swings by quarter. Hopefully the bankruptcy law change will benefit us and possibly even the min pay going into '07 and '08.  

We do expect outstanding in charge volume growth. We will hope to keep up with the environment and our competition. Underlying -- by the way, the min pay and bankruptcy underlying credit costs continue to be very good, and even if you assume they were flat our losses would be down a little because of mix. Expenses will increase modestly because of the Sears acquisition, a little bit more marketing spend. I also caution you, please take the time to go through what Mike mentioned about the accounting adjustments for Paymentech. It's gone from fully accounted, where all the regular expenses show up to equity accounting where only the, basically, the return on the investment shows up in other income, therefore it's distorting all those lines and we're going to try to break that out for you in a simple kind of way.  

Commercial banking, overhead ration, we had mentioned 52%. We now think it's 50 and maybe down the road it will be even better than that. We do think we have a pretty good chance to be there by the end of '06. We expect to have growth in loans and liabilities, we started to see it pretty healthy in almost all categories in the fourth quarter. Credit costs here will go from a positive to a negative also. Again you have to use your own estimates what you think is going to happen to the economy. Expenses will be up probably a little bit.  

On page 28, treasury and security services. We reset our pretax margin to 35% up from 30. And I also should caution to say it's not because we are not investing in our company. These numbers are assuming real investments in our future. And we just think looking at our mix of business we did it at a very detailed level, that 35% is achievable sometime either late '06 or in '07. We had very good growth in liability balances, custody balances, trust balances in '05 we expect some of that to continue in '06 and drive noninterest revenues. The expense base will be stable, even as we grow and spend a lot of money on conversion-related issues.  

Page 29, asset and wealth management. We've also reset our margins here to 35% versus 30. You should also look at this as due to cycle. We do hope to achieve this in the end of '06. We think that inflows will continue to drive revenue growth as long as the market is flat to -- as long as the market stays flat or increases. And we are increasing expenses a little bit. We do think we have an opportunity to grow, both assets under management, products, private bankers, private client bankers, and we will be making some of those investments, and also we will give you some real detailed numbers so you can back out Brown and Co. and don't distort the numbers for revenues and expenses on that.  

Corporate. Page 30, Mike mentioned private equity is 300 million a quarter. As you know private equity will also be a little bit market driven. We think 300 million a quarter of revenues is reasonable. Could it be zero, could it be more. It could be 500 or 600. The important thing to mention here, if you look at the numbers that Mike had shown a little bit for the -- I think the full year number after tax, after expenses, about 5 or $600 million, that's on $6 billion of investments. I wouldn't call that an aggressive assumption because you really want to earn more than that. So we think it's a good estimate, and obviously it could do a little bit better, and the number of equity investments is going to be coming down over time.  

You all have mentioned a lot about this corporate number. There's a big negative there. I'm going to split it into two pieces. Again, we give you a lot of detail and breakouts. If you want, again, you ought to call Mike or Julia and they can take you through a lot of detail, but treasury, think of this as the banks bank. There are other numbers that show up as noninterest income or noninterest expense in corporate, but the portion that funds the bank, the treasury NII, was a negative 1.7 billion. We think it will get better by 400 million or so in 2006. And that's from retention to capital and that's from just how we price, do all the funds transfer pricing, so we will exit '06 at around a run rate of 1 billion and you should expect that number to continue to improve gradually over the couple of years after that. Eventually this number should be zero. Obviously it will always be a little bit lumpy depending on how you finance the Company but it should come down to zero in the years after that.  

Other corporate expense, which is, think of it as retained, unallocated expense from vacant real estate to unused data centers to unallocated corporate expense, either benefits or costs from unallocated pension, other corporate assets, corporate BOLI/COLI.. This number is a negative 1.3 billion, ex-Brown, we think it should get better by about 500 in '06 and continue to get better after that as we become a more efficient company. If you go out to '07, '08, I think this number should just be a negative couple hundred million dollars of unallocated expense. It will always be a little bit of lumpy because of taxes and a whole bunch of things that run through the Company's books, but that is our objective is to create far more efficiency at this company. I think the whole management team is devoted to doing that, because I think they realize how important is for the Company.  

On page 31 I'll only mention two things. It shows you all the things on our plate in tech and ops during the year. We have scheduled now the Tristate mergers. This is the JP Morgan and Chase retail and wholesale systems into Bank One's wholesale and retail systems and visa versa. Remember, it cuts across multiple platforms, just like we did in Texas. We have divided into it two pieces. One will be the retail piece. That will happen in the third quarter of '06. We are well on our way to doing a lot of the work to get that done. We're very confident that will get done properly. The wholesale piece, which is really, think of it as the whole side, all the cash management for TS&S, and corporate related system, obviously global and large we split out into mid-'07. Again, we've done a lot of the prework for this already so we are pretty comfortable we'll get these things done.  

The only other thing I want to mention is we have a lot on our plate for '06. Our comfort that we will accomplish it is very high. But we think that coming out of '06 this company will begin to be developing some of the better platforms in all of our businesses. So it isn't just conversions we've been accomplishing in the last year and a half, it's really fabulous retail systems, wholesale systems, trading systems, risk systems, data centers, networks, which we continue to drive not just lean and efficient but innovation and growth going forward.  

So page 32, to sum it up, our balance sheet is getting stronger. We think we will have better capital generation going forward. We think our expense control is good, while we've been investing for the future. As a shareholder, I'd always be worried if people are not investing for the future and investing in growth, which is what we're doing, and we do think that we're getting better at expense control and still do more. I think we've got some very strong management teams, very strong management disciplined, open conversations, open debate. A lot of sharing of information, and world-class franchises. I certainly feel that the world-class franchise, very happy to be here. I would tell you they have a lot of promise and what we owe you now is a lot more performance, but they are world-class franchises. We've made tremendous progress in conversions technology, branding. I hope you've all seen the Chase commercials and card retail. We've rolled out the new brands in a lot of states. New York will be sometime, I think it will start kind of June this year and go to the end of it. We still have a lot of work to do but we're very comfortable we're building a real superior company here. So I will stop there and open the floor to questions for Mike or myself.  

OPERATOR: [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We will take our first question from Guy Moszkowski at Merrill Lynch.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.  

JAMIE DIMON: Hey, Guy.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: First of all, just on the trading part of the investment bank, it seems like the trading revenue volatility in the investment bank continues to be considerably more than it appears. You actually acknowledge that. Clearly, diversifying into commodities hasn't really helped since you said that positioning losses in commodities was part of the issue this quarter. Are you looking at any changes beyond that at this point, changes to your risk governance processes, further diversification of desks? Where are you with that at this point?  

JAMIE DIMON: Like I said, the good news is really we have done -- I think there's a lot more management of the risk and a lot more -- there would be some reduction of the risk going forward, really looking at some of the things we did in '05 that we won't be doing in '06, but we are adding asset backs, mortgages, energy, eventually there will be a portfolio effect from that, but as you build those things up you can't promise that it's going to happen next quarter. So like even in the energy side we far exceeded our expectations for the year. There was obviously a very good number in the third quarter and we gave some of it back in the fourth quarter. So -- but we are going to continue to relentlessly build our systems, our people, our trading capabilities. We have some extraordinary folks, and capabilities and we continue to build them, and yes we are disappointed in the volatility. The management team understands that one of our goals is to reduce that. If you look at the $6 billion for the year it wasn't so bad. We would like to increase that over the course of the year and reduce the volatility.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And I think I heard you say something about the errors in '05 will go away in '06.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you heard us mention -- it wasn't this quarter, but in prior quarters, that there was some large trades that went sour, that we won't repeat those kinds of trades.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. Fair enough. If I can just move on for a moment to the corporate expense side that you spent some time talking about. Can you maybe give us a little bit more color on how you're going to achieve, first of all, the net interest -- the treasury NII improvement of about 400 million? Actually, I think you said 700 million at a run rate as you exit the year. Is there any way in which this relates to the repositioning losses that you took this quarter, or the sale of large parts of the bond portfolio that you did in '04 and '05?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, first of all, it's a lot of moving parse. It is capital retention at treasury, at corporate. It is the fact that we do FTP pricing, we know that -- the flip side is hurting some of the businesses, where we know that going forward as some of these FTP transfer pricings roll off, to roll on at cheaper rates for treasury, so it's kind of in the bag. It's no bet or guessing here was taking place. A little bit of it is when you take bond losses it does enhance future returns on whatever investments you take. So it's a little bit of all of those things which are driving that number.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And then with respect to the other side of the--?  

JAMIE DIMON: And even things like liquidation of excess real estate help NII a little bit, so you have a lot of moving parts in that.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Got you. Then just with respect to the other side of the corporate expense, you alluded to a number of different items. How -- again, just maybe a little bit more color on how you're going to achieve what I think is about a $500 million improvement in the nontreasury portion of all that? And is that something that Frank Bisignano, as CAO, is going to be work extensively on?  

JAMIE DIMON: Obviously Frank will be working on it. We hope Frank will make it better than that. He will be working across the board, but we don't want you to double count this. Again, a lot of that 500 is in the bag because it's merger saves, it's consolidation of systems, it's closing down of -- it's sale of real estate. We have already liquidated millions of square feet of real estate, where we have signed deals to liquidate and so we -- that number is not putting the cart in front of the horse. We do think a lot of that number will happen.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: But you're -- then you're comfortable with us thinking that as you exit '06 you should be running that corporate line somewhere like 1.2 billion less than where it's been operating this year, the past year.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: It's -- again, yes, the 1.3 billion, other corporate, not treasury, that's this year. For next year it will be about 500, 0.5 billion better. So operating loss of 800 for the year, and we hope that it's gradually improving and be a lower run rate than that next year, but we don't after precise number for you on the exit rate.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: I was just adding the $700 million or better exit rate on the treasury side you talked about plus the 500.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, one is pretax, and one is after tax though. So just take that into account.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to John McDonald of Banc of America Securities.  

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning. Couple of questions on the card. What are you doing with the teaser rate strategies with the net interest margin in card? We are seeing a lot of sequential compression the last couple of quarters. Is that likely to tail off at some point?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I think the compression was a little bit rising rates, and an increasing part of our portfolio was teaser rate, or low rate balances, and we're still doing it. We still think it's an effective way to market. I think if you look at the trend over time we've probably been doing less of new card generation through that kind of marketing, because it isn't that effective any more, and so we'll have more report on that when we talk on February 28.  

JOHN MCDONALD: So the percent of the portfolio on teasers probably starts to level out or so? Is that fair?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I don't remember that number off hand, but I do believe it starts to level out.  

JAMIE DIMON: It will.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Do you have an outlook for the net interest margin in '06 in card?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think it it's stable, or maybe a little bit worse and it mostly depends on competition and the yield curve.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And now understanding that you're guessing, in terms of the bankruptcy benefit and the min pay, what would you be assuming in the 500 million benefit potentially in the first half for the bankruptcies, the bankruptcy increase from the current level? They're obviously running at a very low rate each week the last couple of weeks. Like 5,000 a week.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, they're running about 5,000 a week, versus a normal of 25 to 30,000. I said the 500, and it may not be 500, 400 or 500 I'd put it--.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: The contractual benefit.  

JAMIE DIMON: Is the contractual benefit that runs through the charge-off line from what was the accelerated bankruptcies from last year. We think with the accelerated portion from last year. It is just a -- kind of a gross estimate of that number, and obviously we're looking at the weekly bankruptcies every week, and it's kind of continued that way through November and December, and I haven't seen this week's number yet.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Aren't you also likely to have a benefit on the bankruptcy side if 30 to 40% of your charges are bankruptcy related and were running that low on 5,000 a week?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I didn't break it out. I just was giving the total charge-off number, but obviously a lot of that will be running through bankruptcy side.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And the min pay, is that really just a guess?  

JAMIE DIMON: The min pay is -- I hate to use the word guess, but it is mostly a guess, because it's very -- it only affects a portion of the cardholders. It relates to how everybody else treats min pay, and I think as you know, min pay relates to OCC banks but not all the other banks. Everyone's rolling out a different program, they're rolling it out at different timing. We've tried to do some testing. What I gave you is kind of our best guess at this point.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And you feel like you're being conservative on the bankruptcy projection just because they are running so low?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, I don't think I'm being conservative. I think we're giving you what we think is our best guess at this point.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Just following up quickly on Guy's question on the NII improvement, does that assume any releveraging of the treasury? You took off a lot in the last two years.  

JAMIE DIMON: Possibly a little bit.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: But I wouldn't call it a dramatic releveraging in how we manage the portfolio.  

JOHN MCDONALD: If rates rose on the long end significantly you might relever?  

JAMIE DIMON: Would have, could have, should have, if that happens and a lot of other things happen, yes, we might do it. Yes. But again you've got to manage your interest rate exposure, but that is a future opportunity which is the same as the flip side of what's been lost this year.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the improvement in NII happens without that?  

JAMIE DIMON: Like I said it was a multiple of factors, so I'm not going to tell you exactly what happens without that. But a lot of it it would happen without that, yes.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Betsy Graseck at Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just to follow-up, so I make sure I understand on the bankruptcy trends, you're saying that your assumptions for $500 million improvement first and second quarter are assuming that the current run rate of bankruptcy trends persists?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, no. I didn't say that. Nor did anyone ask me that. That is our estimate of what we think will happen in the first two quarters because of bankruptcy.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: Not that the 5,000 will continue until the end of the second quarter.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Total charge-offs, Betsy, from the level they've been running at, just think of them as being on average 500 million lower than otherwise. It's a combination to John's question of contractual losses being lower because of some portion of the bankruptcies were acceleration of people who otherwise would have gone contractually bankrupt, and the other piece, to John's point also, is that bankruptcies themselves should be lower. So it's the combined effect.  

BETSY GRASECK: So in the event that the bankruptcy run rate does stay at these very low levels for, let's assume the full year, would that have an impact on how you're thinking about providing for the card portfolio?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. It would, because remember, you've got to look forward in how you provide, but very roughly, if you listen to what I said that the first two quarters of the benefit and there's a slight negative in the third and fourth, that very roughly there will be very little change in the provision if it turns out that way. In the actual provision.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

JAMIE DIMON: Because while your provision will be taken, again, looking forward 12 months, you'll be taking benefit of some of it, you'd also be taking -- looking at the negative you already know about that's coming at the end of the quarter -- at the end of the year, I mean.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Although you did indicate that you should see some -- you would anticipate some improvement in '06, in '07, in '08.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that these two things should ultimately drive better underlying credit. I think that will be swamped by the economy. If you see the economy get much stronger or much weaker, that's what's going to be the major driver of credit, not these two things. These two things -- these things will more be like the tip of the iceberg if that happens.  

BETSY GRASECK: Just on acquisition strategy, I know we didn't discuss much during the presentation, could you just give us a few points on your outlook for where you would best prefer to deploy excess capital?  

JAMIE DIMON: Betsy, I think that capital is critical and the Company should deploy capital in the way it finds most productive, all things considered at the time. So I would never tell you what the answer to that question is because I don't always know. We have no problem retaining it and doing nothing with if the we think that's the most attractive thing to do. We can always buy back a stock if we think that's the most attractive thing to do. We are making investments in our business. Regular investments, from systems to branches to marketing to -- and obviously we have done a lot of what I call the smaller acquisitions. Sears, Vistara, Cazenove, and if those things make sense, you should always do those kinds of things.  

BETSY GRASECK: I guess I'm just thinking in terms of product versus customers, deposits versus assets.  

JAMIE DIMON: You've got to tell me -- be more specific, I'm not getting the question then.  

BETSY GRASECK: I mean, would you prefer to be reinvesting your capital in your -- into bank acquisitions? Would you prefer to be reinvesting your capital into product lines like, for example, a GMAC type of opportunity?  

JAMIE DIMON: First, I'm not going to comment on GMAC, but I think, again, you are always going to have a product set of opportunities in front of you, right? And you should always do the ones where you think are the best long-term interest of shareholders. So you can never say where all the opportunities will be, because you don't always know. Having said that, we put a lot of time in just organic growth. We like this six businesses we're in. We think they have a natural fit and that they aid and help and compliment each other. We're not looking for a new product line, per say.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

JAMIE DIMON: Does that answer your question?  

BETSY GRASECK: That's fair. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Mike Mayo at Prudential Equity Group.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Hi. Value at risk in 2005 was highest in the second and the fourth quarter, and those were the two worst trading quarters. If you can reconcile those two thoughts, and what's your general thought about value at risk going forward.  

JAMIE DIMON: I'll answer the second question first. I think value at risk bounces around all the time, and as you know, it's a very imperfect number. Okay? And I'm not going to take you through all the things that go into it that make so imperfect. It's not a bad single point number about risk but it is a very bad number if you think it actually represents risk. So -- and what happens is, it is not mathematically accurate to say that if VAR goes up, your results should go up. VAR going up could have the opposite effect. And I did -- you also noticed something which is quite clear, VAR did go up in the two bad quarters we had. I think they're virtually unrelated except for one or two trades.  

MIKE MAYO: Just generally speaking do you want to take more risk or less risk?  

JAMIE DIMON: Again Mike I don't think the question is more or less. You want to take -- we are going to build our businesses, and therefore over time we'll be taking more aggregate risk. If you've got the proper portfolio you actually have a proper diversified portfolio, you do have a portfolio effect which really does dramatically reduce your risk. I do think you see that in some of the other trading houses but the real question is you want to get the right return on risk. You want to get paid for the risk you take over time. You want to -- so it's a combination of all those things, but over time you'll probably see it more likely going up than down and hopefully we will do it intelligently and we'll get paid for it.  

MIKE MAYO: Separately on the retail side, you mentioned competitive pressure and some of your competitors say that you're the cause of it. I guess I see a lot of branch openings and new ATMs just in the fourth quarter alone. Are you pushing the envelope in terms of competition to get the return, and when do you get the revenues from that expansion kicking in more?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think, I'm not sure we are the cause of it. A lot of our branch plans really have to do with our own positions in various markets and a lot of the markets we hadn't expanded, grown, or moved with where our clients are moving for years, so kind of this acceleration was to do what makes sense. We are in some competitive markets. We will be very competitive in those so we -- I don't think in any event we're the price leader in most markets, we might be in some. We do give some discretion locally in how they have to deal with the competition. We obviously -- we look at branch investments. Think of it as $2 million of capital in a branch, and if it can break even on a marginal basis 18 months and start giving you a real return 24 months out, those are very good investments, and we will continue that as long as we think we're making good investments and it puts us in better competitive position rather than worse competitive position. We will be a formidable competitor.  

MIKE MAYO: Lastly as a follow-up to Betsy's question, as far as acquisitions outside the U.S., such as in Asia.  

JAMIE DIMON: I don't understand what the question is.  

MIKE MAYO: Well, there was an article yesterday saying that you might be looking at an Asian bank. What's the official response?  

JAMIE DIMON: My official response in acquisitions has always be no comment.  

MIKE MAYO: But generally as far as expanding outside the U.S. more than you currently are?  

JAMIE DIMON: Obviously we -- talking about the consumer side or the wholesale side?  

MIKE MAYO: Well, you're already out there on the wholesale side.  

JAMIE DIMON: Right. And on the wholesale side, you saw us do something like Cazenove, we do think was an intelligent joint venture, which really did help our position in the U.K. and in fact all across Continental Europe. If things like that come up, yes, we would be interested but we're not in any acquisitive mode right now, but I would never say never about anything like that.  

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Glenn Schorr at UBS.  

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Morning. Just questions, just the way the models work on credit. Obviously we've been in this great environment and we've seen a lot of releases. But, and I'm talking a little more on the wholesale side, but in general, at what point or do we at some point see provision building as we move into this, quote, more normalized world over the next year or two?  

JAMIE DIMON: Right. Well, I actually would throw it back, you're the analyst, and you're the one that is supposed to answer that question. I look at it that there is a normal through the cycle credit costs to, say, corporate loans, okay? Large corporate loans. You and I can have a discussion whether that's 50 basis points or even 100 basis points. But when you build your business and using credit, you've got to look at what your returns are through the cycle. In the best of times you've got these benefits from taking down reserves and you're absolutely right, in the worst of times, not only do your charge-offs go way up, because if you think the average is 1%, well, in the worst of times it would be 1.5 but you have to add provision. We have to manage through those cycles. Obviously we try to think ahead like you do.  

GLENN SCHORR: No problem.  

JAMIE DIMON: In the course of this year, I think it is a reasonable thing for people to expect that instead of having a benefit from taking down loan loss reserves, that there will be net charge-offs will cost the Company money, and it might necessitate some provision for if you the grow your balance sheet for new loans.  

GLENN SCHORR: Got it.  

JAMIE DIMON: But whether you -- I don't think it will have a dramatic change unless you have a dramatic change with the environment and you have this dichotomy in credit today which is a lot of corporations, i.e., a lot of the strong corporations, big corporations that we do have credit relations with, well, they're flush. They're in great shape. But you do have more and more of leverage buyouts and fallen angels and things like that so it's kind of a two-part world right now.  

GLENN SCHORR: I'm with you. Moving on, Jamie, on the private equity side, the combined carrying value is probably in the range of 1.6, 1.7 billion below the cost. Obviously, you give your best guess on the 300 million per quarter, but is the goal -- overall goal still to wind that down as a percentage of equity and theoretically, if you liquidated it all now, there would obviously be some losses taken. So I guess just the question is, does all that get included in your 300 million expectation?  

JAMIE DIMON: Right. I think you have, number one, we had mentioned early on that we had wanted to be below 10% of tangible equity and we're already there. So -- and that's just what I call a basic risk control measure, but I do think you will see it slowly trend down over time, because the former J P Morgan Partners is going off on their own. We'll be an investor in that fund. They're still investing part of the remaining fund, but over time our investment, that will go down. One Equity Partners is investing money, and maybe at a slightly faster rate than in the past. But I think you should expect the 6 billion to slowly go down over time. The cost basis, it's on our balance sheet, I think what you're referring to is it's already been written down. It isn't through the income statement. It isn't like we have things in our balance sheet which we're saying that are worth X and the cost is 200 million more and we haven't realized that yet. It's really the other way around. It's been realized and we're simply telling you that the original purchase price was higher.  

GLENN SCHORR: That's fair.  

JAMIE DIMON: So that you have comfort that when this company went through the bubble burst in 2000, that people were saying, have you written down your stuff.  

GLENN SCHORR: I'm with you.  

JAMIE DIMON: So the 300, yes, is all in.  

GLENN SCHORR: Cool. Last one on just a clarification. Your comments within the corporate line item, one of the pieces included transfer pricing out to the businesses. Just making sure, I'm sure the answer is yes, but that's a shift. That's a net-net neutral to the Company. It benefits the corporate line, but it pushes out theoretically some expenses out to the businesses, which are included in your outlook statements.  

JAMIE DIMON: Are you talking about in the corporate expense or treasury NII?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Treasury NII.  

GLENN SCHORR: Correct. Treasury NII.  

JAMIE DIMON: Treasury NII, basically, think of it as the Company is basically financed by third parties where they can do it on the outside or they can do it with us. So they are like stand-alone businesses. The reason corporate is benefiting is not really changes in FTP policies, it's all the other stuff, it's capital, it's retention, we might have lent one of the units money at a low rate before and it's being repriced to a market rate today, therefore we benefit a little bit.  

GLENN SCHORR: Theoretically the business unit gets hurt a little bit, but all that is included in obviously your outlook statement.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Correct. Some of the pressure we talk about in retail is the effect of them seeing loan rates be down.  

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Thanks, Mike. Thanks, Jamie. All right.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to David Hilder at Bear Stearns.  

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning. Just a clarification on a couple of different questions. First, on trading, Jamie, you said there was some mistakes in '05 that you hope not to repeat in '06. Were any of those of -- was the fourth quarter depressed trading result the result of any of those types of mistakes?  

JAMIE DIMON: Not really.  

DAVID HILDER: Okay. When you talked about tougher -- or competition at retail, or in retail banking, were you thinking of any particular geography, New York, Chicago, Texas, other Midwest, someplace else?  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, I think you've seen very hot competition in Chicago, and we expect it in New York. Other parts of the world, and I think we expect it in Texas, too. In other parts of the world, haven't had that kind of competition, like Arizona.  

DAVID HILDER: But in terms of what's affecting the numbers you see today it's more Chicago or the Midwest?  

JAMIE DIMON: I don't think it's the competitions affecting our numbers. I think it's just slightly margin compression as you don't get the benefit of having invested a lot of money at higher rates, and as those higher rates investments run off, you can't reinvest them at higher rots. So I think the squeeze came more from the long end. People talk about what would happen if short rates went up. The other question is what would happen if long rates didn't go up. And that's where a little bit of margin squeeze is coming from.  

DAVID HILDER: Then in the asset and wealth management business, is it fair to assume that the sale of Brown was actually at least in the short term, a negative for pretax margins, or is that a bad assumption?  

JAMIE DIMON: The sale of Brown is out -- when I gave you the margin kind of target for next year it's not included in there. It's already adjusted for that. I honestly don't know what it did in the quarter, if that's what you're asking me.  

DAVID HILDER: I was wondering about the fourth quarter but I can follow up off line if you'd like. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We have time for one more question. That comes from Andrew Collins at Piper Jaffray.  

ANDREW COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. Just wondering, on the investment bank you have this 20% target that you want to reach on ROE. It seems like it will be kind of tough to achieve in '07, even given you're reducing volatility, you're increasing the comp ratio. I'm wondering if you could just provide a little bit more clarity on that particular goal.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think, Andrew, one of the things that is really important is that we understand what we think are reasonable returns for the business that we're in. And that is what we would say is the reasonable return for the business we're in. What you see going on -- and I don't think reducing volatility necessarily means you're reducing income, so that's number one. This company has put together a fabulous global platform over the years around the world, Asia, Europe, United States, full product sets, fabulous products, great innovation in a lot of the trading areas, and, to me it's just realizing the promise of that is what's going to get us there. We are in the numbers becoming -- well, we're putting a little bit more money in comp. We're also saving a lot of money in other stuff. I call that tooth to tail. We want to pay our better people more money and be a more efficient company, and one will help pay for the other. So hopefully we can attract some good people, we'll reduce bureaucracy and costs that don't matter to the bankers or traders and salespeople and we are becoming a more efficient investment bank, too.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Yes, looking at JP Morgan over the last several years it's always been pretty volatile. I'm just wondering if that's not kind of part of the business stream.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think it is a -- you have to be mature and acknowledge that the investment banking business is going to be a volatile business, and I'm kind of in the war and buffer class. If you earn an average 20% return, albeit lumpy, that's better than a steady 12% return. We believe we have a platform that will deliver a superior return over time. We just to have work hard to deliver on that. You do have the credit cycle, trading cycles, the market cycles, but through those cycles, we do think this company is positioned to have a superior economic return.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Okay. Just one other unrelated question on the credit card. Operating expenses came way down. I was just wondering, how much of that was marketing and kind of what do you expect there going forward?  

JAMIE DIMON: I believe that quarter over quarter, there was almost no reduction in marketing, but if you look at the sequential quarter, marketing was down in the fourth quarter, which I think is pretty traditional. And the second thing is that when we finished all the conversions in card we did have a drop in expenses, and I forgot the number, but it was fairly significant, which is obviously ongoing every quarter.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Mr. Dimon, Mr. Cavanagh, I'll turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Thank you very much, everybody, for joining us. We look forward to seeing you at the investor day. Take care.  

JAMIE DIMON: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
bone : Bank One Corp | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060201e21i000gp
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,884 words
   PD
20 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to the JPMorgan Chase second quarter 2005 earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. Today's call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  

   TD
Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in the forward-looking statements are described in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Security and Exchange Commission's Internet website. After the prepared remarks, there will be a question and answer session for the financial community. Media will be in a listen-only mode for the duration. If you would like to ask a question, please press the star or asterisk key followed by the digit one on your touch-tone telephone. Again, that's star one for questions. I would now like to turn the call over to JPMorgan's Chief Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh.  

MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Good morning, everybody. This is Mike Cavanagh. We'll work on shortening that preamble for the next time. Getting going here, we're going to spend -- I'm going to take you through a presentation that's available on our website, so please if you'd get that in front of you. We'll go through that, which will cover the quarter, and then -- and then take some questions. So first, going to slide two, second quarter 2005 earnings, this is sort of the headlines of our results. We'll drill into these in greater detail as we get further down. But just to hit on them now, investment banking, we had weak trading results, which drove a lot of the overall results for the quarter, but very strong investment banking fees.  

In the remainder of our businesses, we had very good momentum across most of them. In particular, card services, treasury services, the branch business and asset and wealth management all had better than double digit earnings growth over a year ago. Our merger saves continue to be on track. Credit quality was very strong in the quarter on both the wholesale and consumer side. We've added to our litigation reserves and settled our Enron class action litigation, and ended the quarter with tier one capital within our 8 to 8.5 range, at 8.2%. So flipping to slide three, this is the second quarter '05 GAAP comparison of earnings. We had 2 billion 328 of operating earnings or $0.66 a share. Down in the black box below, you see the litigation charge was about 1.2 billion after tax, 1.9 pretax. And that relates to Enron and other legal matters that we included in the nonoperating charge in the second quarter of last year.  

Other legal charges were taken in the quarter, as is usually the case, and are included in the operating results in the appropriate line of business. This is the last time that we have to do this GAAP comparison. You see this is, this is compared to the prior year, which is Heritage JPMorgan Chase only results, excluding Bank One results. So we've been looking at, and we'll skip to them now, for the past several quarters, the pro forma combined results. And so hopefully you found that helpful over the past few quarters, the work we've done to do those. So let's skip from -- past slides four and five -- and actually, the only thing I will say on slide six, which is the consolidated P&L, on a pro forma basis is you see, again, earnings of 2.3 billion, down 584 versus last quarter or 20%, and 459 or 16% versus a year ago. With those numbers in mind, let's flip now to the next slide, slide seven, which takes those results and shows them on a by-business basis.  

So again, just orienting to this page, which we'll spend a minute on, the left most column, second quarter results by business for 2.3 billion for the company. You see the comparisons quarter over quarter, year over year in dollars, and then percent off to the right. So up at the top, you see the disappointing investment banking results, down 54% versus last quarter and 40% versus a year ago. But the circled numbers are the one I was referring to earlier -- great year-over-year earnings progression in credit card, treasury services and asset management. And the -- in the retail business, which shows up 4% here on a reported basis, when you exclude the gain on the sale of Bank One's brokered Home Equity business which we exited a year ago out of the last year's second quarter results, that business also had double digit earnings growth.  

And lastly, I'll just point you to the commercial bank here to make a point that that business had a 174 million of operating earnings in the quarter, which were down substantially versus the prior prior quarter and the prior year. And this resulted from an adjustment to our wholesale loan loss allowance that in effect reallocated our allowance amongst our wholesale business -- businesses, but it did it through the P&L. So we did this as a result of refining the data inputs that are used on our allowance calculation methodology, which we describe in our 10-K. The commercial bank's results included as a result of that 142 million in credit costs which were essentially all related to this allowance adjustment, and not a function of a change in credit quality in that business. Earnings for commercial banking before this -- before credit provisioning were also then up 9% year-over-year, consistent with the trends I just talked about in the other businesses away from the investment bank.  

So we feel very good about the underlying momentum; and now we'll and drill into the businesses one by one to go a little bit deeper. Turning to slide eight, the investment bank pro forma comparison, so here you'll see circled number in the fist column -- 606 million of operating. Again, down quarter over quarter and year over year, primarily driven by the weak trading results. Trading revenues were about 600 million, just over 600 million in the quarter, down from 2.2 billion in the first quarter. But before talking about the trading results, I'd like to make a couple of other points on the revenue side. First, investment banking fees of 965 million, which you see circled, were again very strong. Similar to last quarter and a little up from last year. Within that, advisory revenues were a record quarter since 2000 at $359 million. Our European investment bank's fees were up 33% year-over-year. So we feel very good about these fee results inside the investment bank.  

And looking into the second half of the year, we have a strong pipeline for a good second half there. The other point away from trading that I want to make on the revenue side is the credit portfolio line. You see we had 295 million of revenues in the quarter. And though that's down from prior periods, it was very strong on continued gains on the debt previously contracted, basically workout gains, as well as loan sales. And we see those opportunities abating as we look forward. On the trading side, fixed income markets were down 871 million and equities markets revenues down 484 versus the first quarter, [INAUDIBLE]. So a couple of comments on that.  

First, as you've heard and seen from many of our competitors, the markets were challenging ones for trying to make money trading this past quarter, and we were unable generally to do so across our trading activities. Again, next is that trading was generally weaker in Europe than in Asia and the United States, and weaker in equities than fixed income. Third, as we've said before, conditions were very difficult in April and May. In June, we saw a return to more normal markets, and we continue to see more favorable trading conditions so far this quarter. Last comment on trading, VAR has returned to its first quarter level at this point in the second quarter. Continuing to look in the investment bank's P&L, you see credit costs of a credit of $343 million, which included net recoveries of 47 million, and the allowance [INAUDIBLE] was $296 million. The reduction in allowance here was a little more than half related to true improvement in credit quality and the remainder related to the data refinement adjustment that I described earlier. We continue to expect to see wholesale credit costs normalizing over the next several quarters, which has been our previous guidance on this line.  

Last point on the P&L is the comp to revenue ratio here. You see 43%. That number brings us to a 41% year to date ratio of comp to revenues in the investment bank, which is higher than what we had been planning and higher than what many of you have in your models. But we think it's appropriate in light of the market conditions we're seeing in the investment bank. Moving on to the next slide, retail financial services, slide nine. This just takes you to the business drivers in each of the major segments of the retail bank. So first part of the page, consumer and small business banking, you see the circled number, $8.6 million -- 8.6 million checking accounts, which is up 9% year over year. And all of the real growth drivers in this business continue to trend higher, which has been what we've been seeing quarter over quarter. We're making good progress in the legacy Chase branches. We've got 104 new branches year over year, 475 new bankers and 412 additional ATMs. So all trends are moving nicely higher in that business, and that's helping drive the results we'll see on the next page.  

We're moving to the middle of the page, you see the home finance business, mortgage loan originations down substantially year over year, but actually up a bit quarter over quarter, with tighter production margins on the new production we're seeing there than what we've seen in the past. And then the 69.1 billion average Home Equity and other loans, that's up nicely versus the prior year, and we continue to drive progress across all distribution channels, especially the branches there. Flipping to slide ten, you see then the earnings results of the retail financial services segment. So earnings of $980 million, circled number, and then we break it down by the sub unit that contributed to those results. But overall, 10% up year-over-year, driven by strong -- very strong results year-over-year, $129 million in the branch and small business banking side of things. But just touching on the variances versus last quarter so people understand what's going on.  

We continued to have strong credit, which was actually very flat to the last quarter. But in the P&Ls for the various segments below, you see we're down quarter over quarter in consumer and small business banking. And remember what we told you last time. That is really driven by the absence of the seasonal tax refund anticipation loan business, which is a first quarter phenomena. So other than that, margin and profit in the consumer and small business side would have been up a bit versus the prior quarter. The decline in the home finance, basically flat year over year and down a little bit versus prior quarter, is really driven by the lower production revenue on tighter margins. We talked a little about absence of some extraordinary secondary marketing gains last quarter.  

And that's despite having the $166 million of MSR risk management results in that number, which you see was up a bit versus last quarter down a few lines below. And then partially offsetting all of that would be improvements in auto and education finance, where last quarter we told you about some special items that caused profits to be abnormally low in that business on the exit of our education lending partnership and sale of some of our auto loans. So with that, I'll move along to card services slide 11. So in card services, profits were 542 million, up 33% year -over -year and up a bit versus the prior quarter. All the way down at the bottom, you see new accounts opened in the quarter of 2.8 million. The prior year included the acquisition of Circuit City; but excluding that, we're up strongly in account acquisition and continue to do a good job on the acquisition front. That's helping to drive our balance growth and our spend growth, which are both up 7% year over year to $135 billion in outstandings on average in the quarter, and charge volume of just shy of $76 billion.  

This resulted in a little bit of a shift in our -- within our mix of the 132 into new intro balances, which are at a lower spread, and so hence you see a little bit of a change in the overall managed margin, down a touch versus prior quarter. But that's a mix issue, not a rate issue. Second for card, credit remains very strong. We had 4.87% charge-off ratio. There was a little bit of impacted bankruptcy legislation in the numbers, but with the majority of that impact remaining to come in the third and a bit in the fourth quarter. We have no estimate yet for you on the impact of the new minimum payment rules, but we'll update you as we get closer to the end of the year there. And third, expenses are up versus prior quarter here due to higher marketing expense, which we see continuing in the third quarter and then it will drop seasonally later in the year. And litigation charges, which I told you earlier, the charges that related to our cases from last year's special charges went through nonoperating, but all other matters went through operating results, and that drove about half of the increase in expenses in the quarter in the card business.  

Moving on to commercial banking, slide 12, main driver here again I've already talked about, is the $142 million in credit costs, which is driven by the allowance reallocation. Overall, our revenue is up $50 million versus prior quarter and 34% versus year ago. And that continues to be a good development on liability balances and loan growth; in particular, I'll just point that in the middle market for the quarter, we had annualized quarterly growth in middle market loans of 12%, which we think stacks up very nicely versus what we've seen from the best competitors out there. So we look for continuing trends along those lines in this business. Also in the corporate banking segment where we really have the higher end clients that are in the middle market, we saw very strong investment banking fees in the quarter, which is the partnership with the investment bank delivering their products into the customers of the commercial banking segment.  

Moving on to treasury and security services, the next slide, revenue -- profits of $229 million, up very strongly versus a year ago and down a touch versus prior quarter. That's on revenues that are up 16% versus a year ago. And that's, if you look down to the bottom, $164 billion of liability balances for the businesses. This is deposits plus on balance sheet sweeps. Those are up 24% versus a year ago, and a main driver of the results here, as well as new business volumes, some improvement in spreads and the impact of our Vastera acquisition. You see then in the revenue breakdown between the businesses that make up treasury and security services, we had increases in treasury services and investor services, and institutional trust services revenue -- all up 17%, 16 and 15% respectively. So very good top line progress in this business.  

Second point here is just on expenses. We've got a big increase versus the prior quarter, but that was largely due to the exit of a client contract, as well as the increase which we talked about in our press release of 58 million after tax, as well as the increase in expense related to our Vastera acquisition in this business. Moving on to slide 14, asset and wealth management profits of $283 million. Here again down at the bottom, you see the main driver of the profits here is assets under management, which were up -- while up 4% year-over-year, within that our equity and alternative asset classes were in a higher return, we're up actually 10% year-over-year. And you can read the bullets for yourself. But really seeing good growth driven by growth from our third party distribution channels, as well as our progress in the retirement plan services side which markets the 401k plans. So very good flows in the business helping drive the P&L here. And quarter over quarter, just some seasonal declines in performance fees and tax preparation revenues.  

Moving to the next slide, the corporate segment. Again, corporate is made up of three major units -- private equity, our treasury activities and other corporate, which is really the net expenses of our parent that are withheld from the businesses. So private equity, if you look down to the circled number, private equity gains of $300 million, down substantially quarter over quarter but still a very good result relative to our long-term expectations there. On a year-to-date basis now, we've had about $1.1 billion of gains versus -- versus -- which is very lumpy, will continue to be very lumpy. And we see this number --- we said last quarter -- could be dropping down to the 2 to 250 range in coming quarters, just given the great progress of great results in the first half of the year.  

Moving on to treasury, you see we split out the gains and losses, which amounted to the $548 million improvement quarter over quarter. In that line is really just the absence of the significant repositioning losses we took last quarter. The rest is the ongoing loss in treasury, which as we've said before, we expect to gradually improve through time. We did get what we expected with the sale of the bonds in the last quarter, was a quarter over quarter decline of the $43 million that you saw in ongoing treasury. But we continue to see here this number gradually improving quarter by quarter as time goes by. Lastly, on corporate, other corporate negative $285 million -- this number actually got better by 11 million in the quarter. I had given you the expectation that we saw due to the investment spend in technology and operations, some increase over the coming quarters here. This quarter, we benefited from a renegotiation of vendor contracts that we made retroactive until January 1.  

So we got a little bit of a catch up benefit running through the numbers here, but without that, would have seen a little bit of increase in the numbers. So that finishes the P&L piece of things. Just touching on merger milestones on page 16, we got a lot accomplished in the quarter. In particular, we started rolling out our branding change across the footprint states in the retails business, and started in card rebranding our plastic and our national advertising there. We also did one of the major conversions of our dollar clearing business and treasury services, which went off without a hitch in early May. And coming up, we have very soon our remaining credit card conversion from the Chase cards to our TSYS platform, as well as later in the year -- later in the year, we have our Texas conversion, which are our two remaining large events for the year, which are all running on track as we speak.  

Moving lastly to outlook on slide 17 -- I've made a lot of these comments already, but I'll just recap a bit here. But in the investment bank looking ahead, we see what continues to be a strong pipeline in the investment banking fee side. Trading, we expect to see a better environment than we had for the better part of the first -- of the second quarter and we're seeing that so far in the third quarter. Credit portfolio, again, we'll expect to see lower gains on loan work outs and loan sales, and that takes the number down by a good chunk there, about a third from what we've been running at there. Credit, we again expect to see over coming quarters our credit costs return to normal. And comp to revenue ratio, we're seeing that increase from what we'd previously talked about in the -- in the daytime current market conditions. In retail, while we've not seen any margin pressure due to rates up thus far, it is a competitive environment out there, so we're watchful of margin pressure in our retail business. On the MSR side, we've had $272 million of MSR hedging profits year-to-date. And as we've said before, we don't plan to -- we don't plan on our budget for those, so we continue to give guidance on that there.  

And on credit, we continue to see, with very good results on the credit side and retail business -- generally stable, but some seasonal increases in the second half of the year what we see there. Card -- again, margins fairly stable; but again, competitive and growth in intro balances will drive some results pressure on margin there. Credit, stable for the coming quarters; but we do have bankruptcy and FFIC impacts rolling through. FFIC is more of a 2006 item than a 2005. Private equity, lumpy results are what we're expecting there, and lower than what we'd previously guided, just given a stronger -- a strong first half of the year, and more in the tune of 200 to 250 a quarter. In expenses, we've seen us get our ongoing merger saves, as we expected. We continue to be -- expect to be at $2.2 billion in an exit rate of total merger saves versus about 1.8 billion right now on a quarterly basis.  

Offsetting that will be increases related to our investment -- investment spending that we have in -- that we've talked about before, which will be in our assistant side in tech and ops. Retail, building out distribution marketing and sales forces in filling gaps in the investment bank in particular. So with that, I'll wrap up my comments on the quarter. And we'd -- we can go to Q&A. All right. Operator?  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. If you would like to ask a question, once again, please press star one on your telephone. That's star one for questions, and we'll pause for just a moment to allow everyone an opportunity to signal. We'll take our fist question from Betsy Graseck at Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning, Betsy.  

BETSY GRASECK: Just to follow up on the last point that you made on the expenses, just to clarify, you're running at 1.88 merger saves right now, ramping to 2.2?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

BETSY GRASECK: And that's over the course of the next three, four quarters?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: The exit rate of '05, quarter accumulative rate I'd say should be about $2.2 billion. That means we pick up about another 120 per quarter over the remainder of the year.  

BETSY GRASECK: Because it -- don't you have some coming in next year from the conversions in New York?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, and then there's savings beyond that, so that's just the amount -- in total, we still expect to achieve 12 merger related savings of $3 billion on annualized basis, and we'll get to the 2.2 billion mark by the end of this year, with the bulk of the remainder coming by the end of '06.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay. Just wanted to make sure. And on the investments then, could you just clarify, you know, how much of that is going to be ramping from here? Obviously, you've had some of that ramp up in the second quarter?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes. We saw a ramp up in the second quarter, which we had expected to see. And then from here, it's really business by business, we're still -- we still have investments to do, but we're fighting hard to make sure we fund as much of that with efficiencies that we have beyond what we already have committed to in merger saves. But in businesses like retail and perhaps investment banking and maybe the corporate area where I mentioned we had some benefits, you might see some sequential increases, modest, you know, from here in each of those businesses in particular. But that could be a little lumpy one quarter to the next from here.  

BETSY GRASECK: So at this stage, when you think about the total $3 billion in merger saves, do you have an estimate, or has your estimate changed? Then, how much of that's going to be falling to the bottom line?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I think we've said, you know, coming into this year, that of the amount coming into the year, that was going to be incremental merger saved over what we had in 2004, it was going to be about a billion and a half dollars, and about a billion one or a billion two of that was going to be the reinvested. So that continues -- embedded in these numbers is that dynamic.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks. And then just separately, it does look like you had a little bit of a balance sheet repositioning, because your end of period securities came down as well? Am I reading that correctly, or is -- ?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: It's timing of trades settling versus -- so I wouldn't look at that number and think that there's anything different than what I said happening in treasury margin. You know, there, we continue to think that it's driving the corporate treasury margin number, which we continue to see gradually improving from where it is, so.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Okay. And NII this quarter fully reflects the changes that you made?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: That's right.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Guy Moszkowski of Merrill Lynch.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Good morning, Guy.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Could you give us a little bit more color on this -- in the investment bank, this trade receivable write-down due to dispute with a credit-worthy client? A little bit more color on it; and basically, by indicating that they're credit-worthy, are you trying to indicate that you could get a recovery on that?  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT & COO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO: Well, I'm sorry, but that's all we're going to tell you. The trades related to the late '90s. They were tax driven trades, and they're credit worthy on that. But it's not a credit loss, it's a tax-related trade that didn't turn out the way it was expected to turn out. So it's really an adjustment from the late '90s and early 2000.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Okay. Just to move on to this -- these concentrated equity trading positions that were client related that helped drive the weakness in equity trading in the quarter, why are you running positions that are that large and concentrated? Are you saying this was just very big block trades that you lost out on? And again, are you doing something to change your limit so that you won't take trades that big?  

JAMIE DIMON: No. I think those are all good questions. You know, we're in the risk-taking business. And sometimes we're going to be wrong. And there were several of those -- some were block related, some were other stuff. But that's all we're going to say at this point.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Okay. Fair enough. Let me move on if I could to the credit card business. You've got an ROO target 3% for credit cards, you're coming just over 2 1/2 at this point. Is that 3% still something realistic to expect by -- by say, early next year, or is that further out?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think we've told you we expect it by the fourth quarter this year. And we're marching it towards that.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: And it's still realistic to think that we could see that in the fourth quarter this year?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. And you know, I think they're going to stay more competitive; but even in spite of that, we think we can get there by fourth quarter this year.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Thanks. Just wanted to follow up on the bankruptcy comments that Mike made. Why would the change in the bankruptcy law -- if it's going to drive an increase in your write-offs, why would we not see that in '05, given that the new laws actually go into effect in October?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, we will see it in '05, Guy.  

JAMIE DIMON: There was a bubble from the effect that you see in '05, and we would estimate it around 65 million. Other people have mentioned it, but it was kind of swabbed by the fact that underlying credit issues got a little better, so you don't really see it in the number.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: In this quarter.  

JAMIE DIMON: Next year should be a small benefit, because it's really a timing difference at the end of the day.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Okay. And then I just have -- I just have one final question on the comp ratio in the IB. Are you saying that even if there is a significant recovery in revenues, that that ratio will probably stay in the sort of low 40s as opposed to below that?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

GUY MOSZOWSKI: Okay. Great. Thanks very much. Appreciate it.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Thanks, Guy.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Ruchi Madan at Smith Barney.  

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Hi.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Ruchi.  

RUCHI MADAN: Also on the trading, I mean, obviously it was a difficult environment, but once again, you're putting up one of the worst results. And you did make some changes to your [adjust] -- I think in the second half of last year, and still the very weak results. So can you just comment on risk management and whether you think you need to address this?  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, first of all if you look at fixed income alone, it's probably -- it was down like year-over-year 38 to 40%, which was probably in the middle of the pack with a bunch of other people, and equities obviously had a much tougher time. You know, risk management is a continual process. And you know, obviously, we're going to spend a lot of time making sure we're doing it right. And every now and then we'll take a risk and have done the right thing and still be wrong. But I think the risk management process will get stronger every month, and continue to get stronger.  

RUCHI MADAN: So you don't feel that you need to make any changes?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think we're always making changes. You know, I don't think making -- you never want to put the baby out with the bath water to make changes so you can say you made them. That doesn't work either. And if you look at what Merrill Lynch did years ago, it took years to recover.  

RUCHI MADAN: Right.  

JAMIE DIMON: Right.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay, thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: We've got some very good people, some very good products. And obviously, we owe our shareholders a better job and less volatility; but you know, we're going to -- we're going to get there. We're going to get there in the right way.  

RUCHI MADAN: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to John McDonald at Banc of America Securities.  

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, just a follow-up on cards. Earlier in the year, you talked about the margin outlook being stable. And now we've had 30 basis point decline this quarter and sounds like it could slip a little more. Could you just update what's changed? Is there a new teaser strategy or new products that you've rolled out, or something that's leading to this mix effect?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think it was a -- the season's drive was a little more successful than we thought. So there are more balances that, you know -- introductory and very low rates than we thought. We did have 7% growth year-over-year in [INAUDIBLE], which is better than some of the people. But some of that growth was 0%, so therefore a reduction in margin. I do think the business is getting a little tougher and more competitive. So, you know, we expect maybe that you'll see some margin compression going forward. And rising rates will have a little bit of a squeeze in that, though.  

JOHN MCDONALD: You talked about having repricing power. Has the portfolio been repriced? And is that offsetting some of the squeeze from the yield curve?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, it is.  

JAMIE DIMON: The repricing data was due to the [INAUDIBLE] we thought we would be able to do with rates going up in our models. So it's very close to that.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: But repricing always relates to competition, too. It doesn't just relate to interest rates and yourself.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And though -- just to clarify again, your outlook that you've put in print here for stable losses the next two quarters, that includes the flip up from bankruptcies, and you expect that to be offset by improvement in contractual?  

JAMIE DIMON: That's correct.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: And next to your -- you know, we don't really -- we may very well have underlying credit improvement -- we don't necessarily expect it -- and it will get a benefit from the bankruptcy law change because all that did in some ways accelerate losses to '05 that would have taken place in '06. And you'll have a negative from the minimum payment, which will probably be a little bigger than the bankruptcy benefit, but we don't know the exact numbers yet.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And Jamie, could you give us your overall view on the [aspirational] profitability targets you laid out in January? Do you see yourself on track towards getting there, and do you think it's still a reasonable goal to get there by the end of next year? And are you holding people for that inside the firm?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think what we've said is that we will -- we really do expect to be in '07, and if we want to be very ambitious, by the end of next year. And obviously that's adjusting to the environment, but we do feel that we can get there in early '07. And obviously, the management team -- not just me, but all of us -- wants to get into '06. By the end of '06 number we'll finish a lot of the major conversion, but not all of it. I should point out that one of the things -- you know, one of the pluses here as we get into all this is that we have massive [conversionable] taking place. And you know, 4,000 people -- programmers -- are working on consolidation and conversions. We've closed multiple operating centers in both our business, so our tentative people are doing a great job getting that done while investing in mortgage rating, new branches, new credit card layouts and seeking out growth in most of our businesses without disrupting the consumer side. So we feel pretty good about the progress on the merger and our ability to accomplish our objectives, hopefully in the next, you know, 18 months.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Just one follow-up there. Saving a billion dollars in corporate other, does a lot of that happen in '06 as opposed to this year?  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, we're still working that one.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yeah, that's going to take -- that's what can take a little longer as we get the ramp up in our technology expenses and working through what gets capitalized and depreciated. So we'll come back with a little more color on that one. But it's probably a little slower than we had hoped.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Still achievable, just takes longer -- is that what you're saying?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Glenn Schorr at UBS.  

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, just a couple of clarifications. On the investments spend, last quarter you mentioned something around 270 to 320 million for the second quarter. Did we see something in that range this quarter?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes. I think those numbers are the combination of acquisitions coming into the numbers -- that their [INAUDIBLE] fully running was about 70, and then 200 to 250 of investment spends. I mean, that's what you've seen in the numbers overall.  

GLENN SCHORR: Okay, great. At the investment bank, one of your -- or two of your target areas have been billed out -- MBS and ABS. Obviously, you're A huge originator but yet, not top ten in the underwriting. Can you give us any idea of what's been done there and outlook for how achievable to march up those tables?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes, I think there were three of the areas. Mortgages, asset backs and energy. I think in all three areas, in numbers, you're talking about mostly hiring people at this point. And I would say 75% of the hiring has been done, roughly. And we think we're hiring some very good people. And we're starting to do more business, too, in those areas. So, you know, we're starting to build our mortgage warehouse businesses, [INAUDIBLE], and energy replacements [INAUDIBLE] successful to our clients. So we're getting to do some of that.  

GLENN SCHORR: So over the, say, the next six quarters, we should see some steady progress there?  

JAMIE DIMON: I would hope so.  

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. And then maybe Jamie, just a -- I'll ask you a question that gets asked of me a lot. As you mentioned, over the next couple quarters, you're going to be getting through the bulk of the consolidation and the transitions. People ask, if it fit -- and obviously at the right price, when would Jamie and JPMorgan be ready? So I'd ask you to answer that one.  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, it's not Jamie. It's JPMorgan. And you're talking about a large acquisition, because we've done multiple acquisitions since we've done the deal. But you're talking about a large one. I'd say by early next year, the company and the teams are ready to take on more challenges, because remember, by the end of '06, the only large remaining conversion is New York. And we've done most of the hard work for New York. Okay? So we've done some -- some of the revenue, in fact. And you know, to me, it's okay to warehouse conversions a little bit. But in some time mid '06, we're free to do what we want.  

GLENN SCHORR: Great. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from David Hilder at Bear Stearns.  

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Good morning.  

JAMIE DIMON: Good morning, David.  

DAVID HILDER: Thanks. A couple of separate questions. On the value at risk numbers, they bounced up quite a bit in the quarter. And you've noted that they've now came down. Can you talk about what was behind that? I mean, were your desks taking more risk, if you will, during the quarter to try to make up for early bad results? And were -- for example, have you now brought down levels to try to prevent that?  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, in the equity side, we took more risk and obviously it didn't pan out. And that has been slowly coming down. And on the fixed income side, it's both a little bit taking more risk and the fact that we're involved in the markets lead to higher bars. All things being equal, the bar itself is not a static number. The inputs change all of the time. So -- you saw more volatility, and that just -- some of that just drove it up. People use slightly different measures about how you get to the bar.  

DAVID HILDER: That's understood. On a different question, could you remind us of what your policy is on credit card bankruptcy write-offs -- how rapidly do you write off accounts after you're notified?  

JAMIE DIMON: I believe it's 60 days after the end of the month that we're notified. So it's a little slow in the city, but probably -- it's probably the same as most other people in the business.  

DAVID HILDER: Sorry, 60 days after the end of the month?  

JAMIE DIMON: I believe it's 60 days after the end of the month in which we're notified.  

DAVID HILDER: Thanks. And just again -- separate question -- on the new branches that you mentioned in the retail system, can you just remind us of where those are geographically? Are they predominantly New York, Texas or elsewhere?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: It's 150 branches, and I don't remember off hand, but they're in most of the major Metropolitan areas -- so New York -- I forgot this year's numbers, next year's numbers are 30 or something like that. But New York, Chicago's got 20 or 30 -- but you know, a bunch in Texas, and some of the major Metropolitan markets.  

DAVID HILDER: Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Meredith Whitney CIBC World Markets.  

MEREDITH WHITNEY, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Good morning. I just had a couple of points of clarification. On your expense guidance, is your net expense guidance higher, therefore your earnings guidance lower? And then my second question is, to clarify in terms of your credit card portfolio has done really well, and really going against industry trends of cannibalization by home equity. And you talk about positive repricing, yet you also talk about aggressive zero, zero incentive teaser rate pricing as well. So can you clarify what direction the pricing, the aggregate pricing, of the portfolio is going? And then my final question is, could you just provide some more clarification on the spike and provision on the commercial loan business?  

JAMIE DIMON: Okay. I'll do the credit card one and Mike will do the reserve. On the credit card side, I think part of our improvement is we have a long way to go, okay? And as we consolidated on the TSYS platform, we saw that we were able to reduce our expenses, which obviously included the returns. And we -- you know, Bank One has done pretty good at what I call reprice and depricing -- and we're applying that to the Chase side. The Chase has done very good at underwriting what I'd to call near market credit deployments at the Bank One side. You are just seeing all of the benefits of that in the improvement in returns in the credit card business. I think what had happened in the zero teaser rate, people -- in going into rising rate markets, some people cut back in that, we did not.  

So at one point, I would say we kind of became the price leader, which we knew, so we continue to grow a little bit; but obviously, we're adding balances with no or little return, so it has a little bit of a margin squeeze while you're getting growth. If we didn't think there was a net present value in that, we wouldn't be doing it. So of course, we're always looking at that. And it's somewhat related to your -- what your competition is doing, et cetera. So that's the reason it had some credit card increase. Mike will answer the expense one, but I just wanted to say that we don't give earnings guidance, so we'll just talk about the expense side.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, and just not expenses. I'd say we're getting -- you know, you've got to take it business by business, and I would characterize it as we're getting close to business as usual. So you're each business and say from here, a lot of our merger saves away from corporate are achieved or well at hand in future quarters. And expense from here, you take it retail banking, business as usual is opening more branches, adding more sales people, building out markets; and so in business as usual, we'll continue to do that. But you can expect this to earn more profits from doing so. In corporate, the place where I think you can look at all of our businesses and think about where you think -- where we've talked about having investment spend beyond what our current capabilities are geographic and product-wise, and make some assumptions there. In corporate, the net dynamic is just we've got more merger related investment to go in our technology and infrastructure that will, to the earlier question, probably not abate and start to allow us to achieve the long-term merger saves in corporate for a couple more quarters. You know, when we get the major conversions done. So there we might see a little bit of tick up in expense.  

MEREDITH WHITNEY: So are you suggesting the third -- the second quarter results, adjusted obviously for a more positive trading environment, is a good run rate for going forward?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: It's getting close to a good run rate. Probably in a few businesses, a little tick up potentially in next quarter; but then in others, we're probably at a good run rate. Card, as an example, is a good run rate and -- with good marketing spend and now it starts to behave on a more normal basis. Once they've finished their conversions, you'll start to see a normal trend in that business.  

MEREDITH WHITNEY: All right. Thanks a lot.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

JAMIE DIMON: Why didn't you answer loan loss reserve?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: So on loan loss reserve, the methodology on loan loss reserve, what we do is we rely on data inputs in the model that establishes allowance for credit losses in our wholesale businesses. That's described well in our 10-K for people who are really interested. But what we do is, we're constantly, you know, looking at the inputs and in this case, revisited the data that supports -- or the analysis that supports the data inputs, made changes to them to improve the data, and when you ran it through the allowance model, it resulted in less loan loss reserves being required against higher quality borrowers and more reserves being required against lower quality borrowers. Hence, you saw some release reserves in our investment bank and some building of reserves in our commercial bank. But the net effect was just the shifting of the reserves amongst our wholesale businesses. And it all netted out to be pretty much a wash, with the total amount of net reserve release of 160 million for the overall wholesale bank being related to true credit quality improvement, primarily in the investment bank.  

OPERATOR: We'll take our next question from Mike Mayo at Prudential Equity Group.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Good morning.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Hi, Mike.  

MIKE MAYO: You mentioned the gains from loan sales and loan workouts might be less. What were the gains this quarter?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Don't have that -- I mean, if you look at that total line, the -- of 295 million of credit portfolio --  

MIKE MAYO: Right.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: -- we see that coming down by maybe a third looking ahead, and that's the primary reason for what -- you know, that's the piece that is really related to those things together.  

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And separately, when I look at the pace of revenues and expenses, it seems like expenses are not going down in sync with revenues. And that's even after adjusting for the 200 to 250 million in additional investment spending and the higher comp in the investment bank. What else is going on?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Well, it depends on what period you're looking at. I mean, just remember, we have some revenue change really related to absence of some of the businesses that we've paired back a bit. So manufactured housing, auto lease wind down and sale of auto loans, the sale of the RV business -- all of that accumulates to about 100 million -- you know, close to 100 million a quarter of revenues that have gone away through deliberate action.  

JAMIE DIMON: Which we still consider a good loss of revenues.  

MIKE MAYO: And I was going to ask you that, Jamie. You've been loud and right so far with regard to indirect auto, but now we're hearing some others in the industry saying indirect auto has changed, given the problems at the auto players.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. I think that's true. And that's not leases. We're talking about auto loans -- for the most part a lot of auto loans in '04 would be put on almost no margin. The margins have clearly improved. And part of what we did is we just stopped, you know, just a [little bit in accordion]. It's not going to make our -- any margin [INAUDIBLE] to the loan, but we're doing -- so we argue a little more now and did sell some that had no return to us. So there's no question there's a slight improvement in the market.  

MIKE MAYO: And last question, you said you'd be ready for large deals early next year. Does that mean you'd be able to announce large deals now on the expectation of closing that, or should we not expect any announcement of a large deal until that time?  

JAMIE DIMON: First of all, we always say never say never. Because you never know where your opportunities are and stuff like that. I just think we have to finish a lot of what we have on our plate this year before we start new ventures.  

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to Andy Collins with Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. My question relates to the retail bank. I'm just wondering how far you are through in terms of investment spending there, and you know, whether we might see a pick up in the second half and where it might come in terms of, you know, personal bankers, technology branches, those kind of things.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you're going to see a little tick up in the investment side of retail, but looking at retail number, you know, expenses are down year over year 144 million -- that's after adding 500 bankers -- you know, I think 75 or a hundred branches, you know, 500 ATMs, more money marketing. So we're -- we're -- they're doing a terrific job paying for their own investments.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. And just an unrelated question -- I mean, or related. Market share in midwest versus the New York region and kind of what is the competition like? Are we seeing strength in any one region?  

JAMIE DIMON: The numbers I remember in front of me in terms of new credit -- in terms of new checking accounts, credit card worthiness, we're doing well in most places. New York did okay with 66,000 new checking accounts this quarter. I do think there are markets which are going -- which are getting tougher. And so I would put Chicago in that category, but we've been saying that for a long time. I think we're [net/net] a winner there, but it's going to get tougher. We've got a lot of good players there, so I would expect New York to get tough. I think the retail business in general is going to get tougher.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. Great. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: And we're prepared for that.  

ANDY COLLINS: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll go next to David Stumpf at A.G. Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS, INC.: Good morning. Just wanted to explore this concept of normalized credit cost a little bit. Obviously we've been hearing for a while and fully expecting that credit costs are gradually going to normalize. Certainly for the credit card operation, I think the visibility there is pretty good and the understanding of what that might be is already there. But maybe on the wholesale side in particular, can you give us a feel for, over the course of a cycle, what loss rates might be normalized for those businesses? And I assume that credit costs or provisions would approach those loss rates, I guess, over time?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that we would say in large corporate it's 75 basis points through a cycle, right? And in the middle markets, probably be more like 50 in a cycle.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: 75 in middle market, and we're a little higher in the March quarter.  

JAMIE DIMON: Which means your ranges will be anywhere from what you're seeing, 0 to 150 and above.  

DAVID STUMPF: Okay. Are we at a point now -- and I know it's hard to tell depending on the environment -- but are we at a point now where the reserve -- it -- where we won't be dragging the reserve down a lot more?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think there -- you know, listen. We're conservative. We don't think there will be a lot more reserve reduction. But it's possible, because a lot of that relates to, you know, the mix of the loans being put on, you know, what they require when they go on and go off and things like that. But I think we're near the tail end of it. Not just for us, but for the industry in general.  

DAVID STUMPF: Sure.  

JAMIE DIMON: And then how long it takes to go back to normal, I think you should ask Wall Street analysts what their estimates are.  

DAVID STUMPF: Right, right, I understand. That's great, thanks a lot.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: We'll take the last question here.  

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Michael Holton at T. Rowe Price.  

MICHAEL HOLTON, ANALYST, T. ROWE PRICE: Yes, good morning. I realize all this acquisition talk is hypothetical, but don't you think it would be, you know, in shareholders' interest to maybe have a stock away from its 52-week low and with a much better multiple before you even think about doing any sort of deal of size?  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, listen. We answer the questions we're asked, so I don't think it's a reasonable thing, too. And obviously, what you're saying is correct. And we're not going to do something dumb. Because we are -- [wholly] are committed to shareholders, and you know, I think we've been very consistent. If you use your stock for an acquisition, you have to look at the relative -- what you think the relative values are, all right? So we think our stock is cheap. We're obviously not going to use it as if it was expensive.  

MICHAEL HOLTON: Fair enough. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Mr. Dimon, Mr. Cavanagh, there are no further questions at this time.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: We appreciate you all spending some time with us. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Thanks, everybody.  

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's JPMorgan Chase second quarter 2005 earnings call. We thank you for your participation, you may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
bone : Bank One Corp | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050803e17k000jh
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,033 words
   PD
20 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to the JPMorgan Chase first quarter 2005 earnings call. Today's call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results can differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  

Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements are described in our 2004 annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Internet website to which reference is hereby made.  

   TD
All participants are in a listen-only mode at this time. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Just as reminder, today's call is being recorded.  

I would now like to turn the conference over to JPMorgan Chase's Chief Financial Officer, Mike Cavanagh. Please go ahead, sir.  

MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: [Audio difficulties] to let some others dial in. I will be referring to a presentation which is available on our website, so I hope you all have that in front of you. As the operator said, I'm going to cover the quarter then hand it over to Jamie for a few questions -- for some comments, and then we'll take a few questions.  

So if you turn to Page 2, first quarter 2005 earnings. This is the highlights of what we think is in our first quarter numbers, and this is what I expect you'll take away from the call. I'm not going to go through these in detail here because we'll drill into them further on in the presentation.  

But first, most of our businesses showed very good earnings momentum over the last year. The Investment Bank had great results on near record revenues with particular strength in trading and IB fees. We had good progress on the expense side. Also credit quality continued to be strong across the wholesale and consumer sides. And we ended with a very strong capital base also having settled our WorldCom litigation in the quarter.  

If you turn down to Page 3, the first quarter GAAP comparison of earnings, I'll just point out here operating earnings of 2.9 billion or $0.81 per share. Not included in those numbers are $90 million of merger costs and 558 million of after tax of litigation related to the WorldCom, which brings us to 63% of reported EPS. I'm not going to spend time on the GAAP comparisons on either this Slide or Slide 4, which includes JPMorgan Chase only in the year-ago period.  

Let's go straight to Slide 6 from here, where we begin pro forma comparisons, which include Bank One results in all prior periods. So on Page 6, this is some significant P&L items and a methodology item that I wanted to point out before we go any further, so I'll spend a little bit of time on this page.  

So of the P&L items, first we had Private Equity gains of $789 million pretax or $0.14 a share. This appears in our corporate segment. Obviously these are very good results. Two gains together in particular total approximately $500 million pretax. And, obviously, Jamie will comment a little bit on the outlook, but this clearly front-end loads what we had expected in 2005, so he can comment later on where we see this going from here.  

Second, we had a reduction in our wholesale loan loss allowance of 377 million pretax or $0.07 a share. This primarily appeared in our Investment Bank, but some pieces of it were in Commercial and Treasury Services. This is strictly based on improvement in the quality of our portfolio, which obviously we don't see continuing forever, but we're glad to have it in the quarter's results.  

Third, MSR risk management, positive 106 million this quarter or $0.02 a share. This appears in the Home Finance segment of our Retail Financial Services business. Now this is another valuable item that we plan at zero and continue to think that's the best way to think about that number.  

And last, the fourth P&L item was Treasury Securities losses of $918 million or $0.15 a share, and this appears in corporate. And here, this is -- we've repositioned the portfolio which is used to manage our exposure to interest rates. And to anticipate a few questions we might get later, what the effect of this will have on our earnings at risk to up 100 basis points shock, which is the number we report in our 10-Q, we'll bring that to about 50 million negative, which is an improvement from prior quarter, still very neutral on that metric.  

Net interest margin, going to the return side of this repositioning, net interest margin give up over the remainder of the year given this trade and all other things being equal, is about $50 million reduction in NII, which will appear in our corporate segments. So that finishes the P&L items on the page.  

So now shifting to one important methodology just to adjust in your models. I wanted to point out that we've changed the way we adjust for tax equivalent revenues to an approach that we think follows best practice. Now there's a slide in the appendix that illustrates exactly what's going on here, and I'll be glad to follow up after today's call if more explanation is needed. But there's three things that you need to know.  

First, tax adjustments have been removed from the Corporate segments, which increases the Corporate segment tax rate, which then causes the operating basis tax rate to increase to 35% when previously it had been 33.  

Secondly, the result of these changes leaves operating earnings and EPS themselves unchanged because this is strictly a matter of geography.  

Third, our Corporate segment we hope becomes more transparent as a result of this. So again, just drawing that to your attention so you can adjust your models going forward.  

Now, turning to Slide 7. You see the consolidated pro forma P&L, and again, it's 2.9 billion in operating earnings, up $596 million versus the fourth quarter or up 26%. That's on higher revenues as you can see, lower credit costs and flat expenses.  

So if you turn now to Slide 8, I'll spend a minute just talking a little bit about what we saw in the expense side, which is a good story for the quarter. Top half of the page on 8, revenues were up quarter-over-quarter, yet expenses held flat. In that number of 8.9 billion or so, we had higher compensation expenses.  

Driving that was obviously a bit of our performance, but also we had the effect of the in-sourcing, which moved non-comp expenses into the compensation line. And we also began, and both lines saw this, the comp and non-comp, the impact of consolidating Highbridge for a full quarter and a partial quarter worth of the Cazenove joint venture.  

On the merger save front, I'll just comment there that we saw $150 million of incremental quarterly saves versus the fourth quarter, bringing total quarterly saves to $380 million, which annualizes to just over $1.5 billion, so we're halfway to our $3 billion merger save commitment and feel good about that.  

Now looking ahead to the second quarter, just some directional thoughts here. Obviously, you're going to take account for whatever you think the performance does in the next quarter as will we. On the merger save side, we continue to be confident and on track to end 2005 with a fourth quarter exit rate for merger saves annualizing at $2.2 billion. That really means about $60 million of incremental saves quarter-over-quarter in the second versus the first to be on track to do that, so we see that coming next quarter.  

We have the remaining impact of consolidation of the Cazenove joint venture and other acquisitions that have been done. And lastly, we didn't see much in the first quarter of the incremental investment spending that we talked about last time around, so we do expect to see some increase maybe to the tune of $200 to $250 million, and increment al spending of the sorts we talked about, particularly in marketing and technology and you'll see that across various businesses.  

Now, turning to Slide 9, we shift to the lines of business, and here you just see the pro forma comparison of operating earnings for all the lines of business. And on the right, you see the percentage change in operating earnings year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. And what it shows, and we've circled this for you, is greater earnings progress across the businesses. So, obviously, we feel very good about maintaining the Company-wide earnings momentum in what's been a very busy year for us.  

Now, moving on to Slide 10, and from here on out I'll be talking in detail about each of the businesses. Each of these pages has a lot of information on it and a lot of commentary, more than I can talk to, so I'm just going to highlight a few things on each of these pages, but encourage you to read these at your leisure. So first with the Investment Bank, with 1 billion 325 in earnings on near-record revenue, these are great results and very satisfying to the team in the Investment Bank, which has been working very hard at demonstrating what we're capable of in this business.  

Here, I'll just make three points. First, the $985 million of Investment Banking fees is another strong quarter, with particular strength coming out of Europe.  

Secondly, we had quarter-over-quarter improvements of 759 million in Fixed Income Markets and 313 million in Equity's Markets, driven by excellent trading results. Now, if you look down to the bottom of the page, you see 70 million per day of value at risk, VAR, which makes these trading results all the more impressive given the VAR actually declined versus the prior quarter, which is in contrast to what we've been seeing at some of our competitors.  

And the third and final point on the Investment Bank is expenses were up on better performance. I just want to point out to remind you that we will see the incremental expense related to Cazenove and increased technology spending next quarter in this business.  

Now, turning to Retail on Slide 11, we're looking at the results of the total Retail Financial Services business. 988 million of earnings, up 43% year-over-year and 27% quarter-over-quarter. I'll just make two points on this slide and then move into detail on the branches and Home Finance. But first here, you see that we had 94 million of credit costs, which is low, on strong credit performance across the retail business. And I just wanted to point out we had allowance reductions in retail of about $60 million.  

Secondly, you see a circled number on the page of $55 million which is the profit for the Auto & Education Finance business. I just want to point out that you see a box on the lower right side of the page that shows that there were $51 million after tax of items that were included in the 55 million of profit. So adjusting for those items, we saw some growth in the Auto & Education Finance business as well.  

And just to point out what those were, we had a transfer to held for sale of some lower turn auto loans that we intend to securitize. We dissolved a joint venture in the Education Finance business, and we sold off our low return profile RV loan portfolio in the quarter.  

Flipping to Slide 12, I'll dive in a little bit deeper onto the Consumer & Small Business side of retail. Here earnings of $477 million were up 64% year-over-year, so a couple of points here. First, if you look down to the bottom of the page, the growth drivers of this business continue to move higher. We had 149 billion of deposits, which is up 4% year-over-year. We had 8.4 million checking accounts in total, which is up 8% year-over-year. And the same follows for branches, ATMs and personal bankers so the progress that the team is making there to continue to improve the drivers of the business is very impressive.  

Second for Retail, the result for that is you see revenues up 150 million year-over-year, while at the same time, you see expenses are down by 140 just driven by the improved efficiency in the business. And lastly, I'll just point out that in this business we saw the positive seasonal impact of the refund anticipation business.  

Turning to Page 13, Home Finance. Home Finance had profits of 442 million in the quarter. 158 million of that coming from Prime Production & Servicing and 284 million from Consumer & Real Estate Lending, the two pieces of the business in Home Finance.  

A couple of points here, first, I already pointed out in Prime Production & Servicing revenues you see the 106 million positive related to MSR risk management results. Second circled item there is 228 million of production revenue on the Prime Production & Servicing side. Now that number is up, while you see down at the bottom, mortgage originations of 26.6 billion are down, and that is due to exceptionally strong secondary marketing, which is really the activity around the sale and hedging of the Prime Production.  

And third and final point here is that in Real Estate Lending, you see the 713 million in revenues are down slightly, but that is more than explained by the give-up of margin related to the sale of the $4 billion manufactured housing portfolio last quarter.  

Turning to Page 14, we have Card Services where we really saw some great results in the quarter. We had 522 million in earnings, which is impressive because it's about flat to last quarter when you'd expect the seasonal decline, which is typical in the card business, not to mention that results are up very strongly versus prior year.  

So again, a couple of thing, to point out here, first you had higher revenues driven by growth and outstandings to $134 billion, which is up 6% year-over-year. And you had 70 billion of charge volume, which is up 11% year-over-year.  

Secondly, you see that credit remains very strong with the 483 charge-off ratio. And lastly, the return on outstandings pretax of 2.52% is up from 1.71 a year ago and moving nicely toward our long-term aspiration for this business. So we think results in Card has really stacked well -- stacked up well versus what we've seen from the competition this quarter.  

Turning to Slide 15, Commercial Banking, earnings of $243 million. I think the bullets on this slide give good explanations to what's going on here, so I'm just going to touch on two things. First is that while overall revenues are relatively flat year-over-year up 2%, and that's largely due to slack loan demand in the Commercial space, Treasury Services revenues are up 14% year-over-year.  

Secondly, just want to point out that we've added in our supplement some greater detail on the Commercial side of the businesses that make up Commercial on the revenue and loan side. And we take comfort in the fact that in the middle market we saw a 7% year-over-year increase in middle market loans, which we're, again, pleased to see just given how important that client base is to us and to this Commercial Banking segment.  

Moving on to Treasury & Security Services on Slide 16. Here, earnings more than doubled year-over-year to $245 million. First point I'll make is that that's a 16% year-over-year revenue growth, which is on higher deposits, wider spreads, and higher fees for services.  

Secondly, we saw better efficiencies on the expense side, which resulted in a pretax margin of 26% for the business, which is a great improvement. Now, that's in part due to some refinements in the way we allocate costs so it's into and out of the business, but it's also due to a lot of work around merger and achieving other saves in the businesses.  

And third, it was announced earlier this week that we're going to combine the Investor Services and Institutional Trust Services into a single customer-facing business called Worldwide Security Services, which we think will position us well to serve this customer base and get greater efficiencies as well.  

Now, on Page 17, we're on Asset & Wealth Management. Here we had earnings of 276 million, up 21% year-over-year. First point here is that we had 790 billion of Assets Under Management, which is up only 2% year-over-year, but we saw a shift in mix within those assets towards equity and alternative asset classes, which helps the P&L.  

Second, we achieved a 32% pretax margin versus 30% in the prior year, and that's moving actually towards our long-term aspiration for the business.  

And third, just want to note that we have fully reflected a full quarter's worth of Highbridge in the results for this business.  

Last, but not my favorite, on Page 18 is Corporate. As I mentioned earlier, we made changes to the way we do tax equivalent revenue adjustments to give a little more transparency here. The Corporate had a loss of $687 million. I'll draw your attention to the middle of the page where we break that down by unit within Corporate.  

I've already spoken about our results in Private Equity, which resulted in 437 million of profit. And the Treasury portfolio repositioning, which resulted in a net loss of $544 million, so that leaves two remaining pieces. First is ongoing going Treasury, which is just Treasury with the portfolio repositioning carved out. That had a loss of $284 million, which is essentially flat to last quarter as we expected. Again, with the repositioning of the portfolio, this will get about $0.01 worse over the remainder of the year, but over time we do expect this line to improve.  

And the second piece is corporate net expenses, with a loss of 296 million. It's named this because it's largely made up of corporate staff expenses that remain unallocated, plus some various other items. And here, we do expect to see technology investment spending ramp up by some amount maybe $50 to $100 million representing our central technology spend in the next quarter and this is the line that you'll see that.  

Now, moving on to my final page, Capital, the numbers kind of speak for themselves here, so it's a very simple one. We maintained a very strong 8.6% Tier 1 ratio, and that's an estimate, while we absorbed the WorldCom litigation charge and bought back $1.3 billion or 36 million shares of stock in the quarter. This makes us feel very good, both about the capital strength of the Company and the capital generation power of the Company.  

So that's it for me on the quarter and I'll hand it over to Jamie for some further comments.  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, COO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Mike, thank you very much. I going to talk about three things, a couple minutes each. One is just merger milestone updates. The second is to give you a feel for our outlook for the next quarter or two. And then the third is just a kind of overview, how we feel about the quarter and how we think we're doing as a Company.  

If you go quickly to Page 20, we've made tremendous progress on the systems and merger side, and while I won't go through all of them, since we actually last spoke or since last quarter, we consolidated our payroll systems, we've merged our mutual funds, we've consolidated our trade finance, a standby letter of credit systems. One of the next big ones coming, which is kind of mid next quarter, is the dollar clearing conversion, which we whereby remove $2 trillion a day over wire systems.  

Some of these that we feel pretty good about is that one major part that already took place, which is the new code, which will accommodate Bank One and the Texas conversion has been installed and is working fine. So we look at these every day and all these milestones and we feel pretty good. We began to roll out of the new Chase brand to the Bank One markets, some in Kentucky.  

I think on Monday we gave away free gas. I gather we blocked up a lot of Lexington, Kentucky and gave away -- I think the lines got to hours long. It was very successful, but we do have a few complaints today that we caused a lot of traffic jams, so we'll be a little more careful when we do that. But it was a very exciting roll out.  

You'll be seeing down the road, and we have a whole schedule which I think we made public, kind of state by state changes in names, signs, re-upgrades as we go with the Chase brand. And remember that Chase brand will have eventually well over $1 billion of marketing behind it between Card and Retail.  

The card conversion, the last piece, where we've converted 60 million accounts on the TSYS. The last 40 million accounts the Chase side, we're well on our way to convert that early in the third quarter. We built some new data centers. We're building new networks and data centers and they're doing fine. We do need this.  

We put all the money necessary to make sure have the right back-up systems. And the Texas conversion we've done a lot of work. And, of course, Texas conversion late in the third quarter, again a lot of the code, and I think in this particular case took about a million hours of code across multiple systems. A lot of it has been written and some is in testing, so every day we're getting more comfortable we can deliver all of this.  

Go to Page 21, give you an outlook for the second quarter. And I'll do it kind of by business right down this page, if you do have the page in front of you. IB fee pipeline, it continues to be strong and we would expect it, assuming the markets stay where they are, at levels fairly consistent -- in the future consistent with kind of this quarter.  

Trading, first quarter has always been very strong for JPMorgan. We're going to try to one day give you far more reason for that. We expect that will also be true this time, so we had a very good quarter, I think it was very gratifying that we had such a terrific recovery in trading results. However, markets have gotten tougher, we start to see in late in March. We think they will continue to be tough. A lot of you have estimates which are substantially below the first quarter. We think your lower estimates are probably pretty good relative to a view of trading results for the second quarter.  

We reported credit portfolio from this NII loans and gains from securities received in lieu of loans, up about $200 million. I think we reported that those loans are coming down substantially, so an outlook for this would be to bring that down quite a bit. There are not a lot of gains that we would expect we would be taking in the future. A good number might be about $200 million.  

One of the things I should point out, is we took out loans in the Investment Bank of 47 billion. The actual loan side, traditional credit product is down $6 or $7 billion from prior -- from last year, and it was made up for by what we call capital markets loan-type products. That's assets, back securities, conduits, warehouses, bridge loans, et cetera, stuff we want to do. So the NII from the traditional credit portfolio will obviously come down a little bit.  

And then credit, we had a very good -- we took reserves improved by 3 -- were taken down by 3 -- below the $200 million. That will disappear, and again, you should all do your own estimate, but there are really two key indicators that will tell you it's going to disappear possibly quicker than you think.  

One is all the market indicators, like spreads, the environment, et cetera. And the second is that the underlying quality that's being written today, and I think this started a year ago in terms of a higher leverage ratios, weaker covenants, et cetera, they've all deteriorated, so as a lead indicator, I think you should expect that will have an impact down the road.  

Obviously, Investment Bank, Mike mentioned that expenses are up, that was more than accounted for by performance basis and of comp, and obviously that will come down as results come down a little bit.  

Retail Financial Services, Mike mentioned the MSR hedging gain, we kind of planned for zero. Obviously, it's a volatile number, but we still generally plan for zero. You should remember that the refund anticipation loans are a first quarter item. They disappear in the second quarter, I think that was a number $60 million of revenues, but I forgot the exact number.  

We did sell -- remember the portfolio sales and auto lease reduction all delivered, manufactured housing, RV, auto lease, and we sold about $5 or $6 billion in 10-1 hybrid ARMs. That will hit NII by about $80 million a quarter. So just put that in your numbers. We think that's a good reduction revenue. It's revenue we did not want. And the credit outlook in retail should be pretty stable. We have had some reduction allowances, but we aren't really counting that going forward.  

Credit card, you see in the margins improve over time. We think they will stay stable. That's probably pretty good in a rising straight volume with tough competition. We think that we still expect to see our margins stable as it gets stronger.  

Credit, we expect to be stable also. There are two things looming in the background. One is the bankruptcy law change, which you could expect a timing impact on how people declare bankruptcy. You may have already seen a little bit of that. And we don't really know the number, but it can obviously swing it a little bit, and there's minimum payment rule.  

How it gets adopted and when it gets adopted we think will have an impact on a part of the portfolio and will drive losses up. Again, we don't have a real good estimate for you now, but we want you to know that's hanging out there. That item will probably mostly be an '06 item.  

Marketing, this is good news. We have increased our spend in the last couple years, we're going to continue to increase it as we see opportunity and as it works. Obviously, it's been working a little bit.  

Commercial Bank, Mike mentioned loan growth like middle market I think we've seen it for the first time in a couple years. We feel very good about that. However, there's very good competition which we will meet and spread compression because we are going to win in that business. Credit costs also there will return to normal over time.  

And Private Equity, we reported almost $800 million of gains. We had told you that a $300 million number give or take is something, and obviously we don't get to decide this, it's lumpy. We also have about $1 billion in marketable securities, which get marked up or down based on the market. So we think that a lot of the gains we might have thought was in the 1.2 billion for the year we booked some, so we think it's reasonable for people to reduce their expectations more to a range of 150 to 200 or something like that. And again, we don't know those numbers. Those are when things actually get sold and so we are in the same boat as you when it comes to what those are.  

And overall in the Company, the risk posture you can see is down. And I'll talk about trading in a second, but borrowing is down. Credit portfolios are down. We sold a bunch of portfolios. Our interest rate exposure, which we do an extensive modeling on, is down, so we're positioned for rising rates if they happen. And we think the balance sheet itself is in very good position. And we are kind of conservative on our posture looking forward on credit extension.  

I think the bottom line, I think to give you just an overview for the whole thing, I think we're very -- I know the second quarter gives you a lot of things which are down the second quarter, but in terms of building a great Company we are very gratified this quarter. The underlying results are pretty good.  

I'm just going to tell you again, just highlight them, okay? In the Investment Bank and recovery and trading, I think the people, Bill Winters, Steve Black in the Investment Bank made some tough decisions. They streamlined management. We're going to help them streamline even more as it relate to staff functions working faster and better for them. They promoted some terrific young talent. They've hired some great talent in a bunch of areas, and they're doing more mortgages, assets backs, energy, so the mean kind of commitment to fill out those gaps that they had. VAR is way down.  

I want to point out particularly those who are in the trading floor is listening to me, it has nothing to do with me, it's really the position of the people running the business and how they want to run the business, so we feel great about the Bank and we're going to just continue building it, non-stop, relentlessly every single time you talk to us. And yes, we know trading is going to be up and down and we're not going to worry much about it.  

Retail. I mean, Retail, what a story, you had growth in home equity, I'm going to say balance of 11%, credit card 75%, branches, ATMs, investments, debit cards, number of bankers, small business loans, checking accounts, the Chase checking accounts of 38,000 this quarter, total checking accounts 180,000, so we feel very good about it.  

You might notice that those of you in New York, we're getting much tougher in New York. We've added two hours per branch in New York, we have more merchandising advertising. We signed up Duane Reed [ph], we are going to be a very, very tough competitor. And for our competitors in New York, I just want -- if you want to learn a quick lesson, go find out what happened in Chicago.  

TSS. You had deposit growth of 15 to 20%. They have a lot of merger work to do. Revenues were up. Their fee business were up. Their margins were up, so we feel very good about it.  

Asset & Wealth Management, Mike did mention it so we've added some bankers. Loans were up 10%. Deposits were up 20%. Cards, 700,000 new accounts, so a lot of our marketing programs we're starting to feel more comfortable about. Our outstandings are up 6%. I think that's better than most people in the industry. Spend was up 11%. Again, those I think are very strong numbers.  

Commercial, I mentioned we have some growth in middle market. One thing we didn't mention is -- and we're going to try to get some more information about this, is the amount of business that JPMorgan Investment Bank is bringing to Bank One Commercial Banking clients is pretty gratifying. And more important, at the clients' level, where we didn't -- we haven't kind of mucked up our client relationships, we're bringing the best of both companies to that set of clients.  

And what's really gratifying about all this is it's in the middle -- we are doing multiple -- we have thousands of people deployed on conversions. We are pushing our staff people to both get the conversions done and become more efficient and do things faster and they are starting to do that. We've consolidated operating centers. And all of this, most important, is we are keeping our clients. We are keeping our clients happy and we're growing the client base. We're spending the money we need to spend in marketing and investments, and so we feel really good.  

Bill Harrison and I sit through a lot of these business views. I think we feel very comfortable about the management teams coming together. Yes, we've had some bumps in the road. We know we're going to have some bumps in the road in the future, unfortunately we can't do things perfectly, but we really feel pretty good how this merger is coming together.  

So I will stop there and open the floor to questions or comments.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] We'll hear first from Guy Moszkowski of Merrill Lynch.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. First question is just a clarification on the corporate and other. I think what I heard you say was that starting in the second quarter we were going to see a $50 to $100 million increase in some of the technology and other spending costs. Is that a number that we should reflect approximately equally through the final three quarters of the year? And is it something that then starts to fade as you get into '06, or is that just the number to use the entire, say, next seven or eight quarters?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that number is with the net expenses of corporate, we kind of thing they might go into next quarter as we ramp up some of this conversion work and then I think it kind of levels from there. We do expect to make corporate far more efficient, but you may not see a lot of that this year.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. And then in terms of the net interest margin, further contraction from here again about 50 million, how much of the impact of that did we actually already see in [inaudible] quarter's number, or was a lot of that bond sale really right at the end of the quarter?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Very little, Guy, at the very tail end, so we didn't see much of it in the quarter.  

JAMIE DIMON: The bond sale itself had very little impact at NII. And in the corporate -- the Investment Bank, the 350 million credit portfolio, you had some in there, but it is really offset by gains we had on the sale of securities and recoveries and stuff like that.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. And with respect to then to Treasury & Security Services, the same question really with respect to spending. Obviously, we did see some cost reductions there net, but should we expect a ramp up in terms of their technology over the remainder of this year?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think modestly, yes.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: Okay. A little bit, not too much?  

JAMIE DIMON: Not too much, no.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: And then a question on the credit card side, are you still comfortable that you can achieve that 3% ROO given that it seems like the marketing spend is growing faster and getting bigger than what you might have expected. Is that not a fair assumption?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, because we certainly look at markets better than investment, and we will make those decisions based upon the returns we get. But we still have that as a goal, we are driving towards it and we did incorporate when we said that we're spending the right amount of money in marketing. It would be very easy to get there without spending the right money in marketing.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: You're not viewing some of that marketing spending as really being sort of maintenance spending in order to maintain the revenue as opposed to really being able to organically grow the business?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, I'm sorry, absolutely. I'm saying we're spending -- we will spend the market and maintain and grow, we expect to get the room while doing that.  

GUY MOSZKOWSKI: All right. That's fair. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: We'll move next to John McDonald of Banc of America.  

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, good morning. Could you give us some color on the stability of the net interest margin in cards? And maybe a feel for the type of pricing initiatives that you're doing?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. Remember, I think we said way back that in card business, we put together these two card companies, we do what I call depricing and repricing, which is, you make it cheaper for good credits and more expensive for other credits. And it's kind of applying outwards to both sides and we feel good about the application of that being done properly.  

Bank One hadn't been good at that and finally got good at it. And, obviously, there's a lot of competition out there, so when we talk about pricing, in pricing you have our own ability to price property or card, to create and generate accounts and to meet competitor prices in a rising environment. So we do feel comfortable that we are thinking through and managing that line pretty well. Does that answer your question?  

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes. So these price initiatives are going to offset higher funding costs in competition and give you confidence that you can keep the margin flattish?  

JAMIE DIMON: We think so. Yes.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. On the investment spending or incremental spending last quarter you said about 1.1 billion for the year. It sounds like 2 to 250 for second quarter. Can you tell us how much you did in the first?  

JAMIE DIMON: Oh, boy. I think it was a little bit less. It's harder for us to tell. Remember that was not investment spending, that was -- we actually were spending much more than that on the quote investment. We just identified very, very specific clearly new investment spending-type things as opposed to all investment spending. And I think what Mike mentioned is that some of these expenses are ramping up are bringing us to that level in the second quarter, so maybe the level at 250.  

JOHN MCDONALD: That's not incremental above first quarter, that's what you would spend --?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, I'm just going to guess now, I'm going to say we probably did 150 of that in the first quarter or something like that. But don't double count what Mike said. Mike was saying the couple of areas you're going to see it go up a little bit as we increase both investment spending and merger-related spending.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And last thing is on the buybacks, is this quarter a good representation of a healthy pace for you? Is tangible common equity a constraining factor on that, Jamie?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think Mike said it well. It was pretty good to have these earnings, take the litigation charge, have the merger costs, buy back that much stock, it's still at 8.6% Tier 1. What we've told the world is all we're going to say is, I think the Board approved -- was it 6 billion -- a $6 billion buyback, and we wanted as a discipline buy back what we issue, which I think we told you was about 600 million a quarter. That's on measured options and restricted stock and stuff like that. But we will buy back less as the stock goes up and buy back more as the stock goes down, and we think we have plenty of capital to continue to buy back at a very healthy rate, if we want.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll move next to Glenn Schorr of UBS.  

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Just two quick clarifications. One on the slide on the Investment Bank, you talked about the strong trading results and they were definitely strong, but you had a comment in there on portfolio management trading at the Investment Bank. Any color commentary you could give us on specific products and where we see the activity? We can guess, but kind of nice to hear it from you guys.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you're talking about the fixed income side, right?  

GLENN SCHORR: Correct.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think the fixed income side was in credit rates. It was in Europe, it was in North America, so it was really well spread and all over the place. And client flows were strong, portfolio management was obviously quite good. So there's no one item to identify in particular.  

GLENN SCHORR: And back to your earlier comments, you feel like there's seasonality in your business but it's kind of hard to pinpoint, but that is a clear contributor in the first quarter?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. Trading results have always been seasonal here, and I wish I can give you a wider reason why, but I haven't fully investigated it. But I'm also telling you -- that's one issue, and we expect that to continue. And the second one is, what we're seeing in late March, in April, we think it could be a much tougher environment.  

GLENN SCHORR: Understood, unfortunately. Mike, one for you, just a clarification. You mentioned while we're talking through home finance with production revenues up yet origination is down in the 15 to 20% range, I would have thought that was a function of mix and type of products you're originating, but you alluded to a certain servicing or hedging. Can you give that to me one more time?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes. It's just there's two pieces that go through there, one is what you just described, the mix of kind of the stuff we're originating. But at the same time, there's activities that we call secondary marketing which is just the activity of managing the pipeline, selling it off to the agencies, hedging it and so forth that creates some P&L activity around that and that was particularly strong in the first quarter.  

GLENN SCHORR: And is that something that you think of like the MSR hedge where you think of it as zero and it's great if you get some positive, but you don't manage towards that?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I think we expect to get some positive, but we got a little more positive than we would have expected.  

GLENN SCHORR: All right. Thank you both.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes.  

OPERATOR: We'll move next to Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you. Good morning. Just a question on the balance sheet repositioning that you did. You mentioned that as a result of this, in a 100 basis point interest rate rise that would impact you negatively by 50 million, did I hear that right?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Moves inside of 50 million negative to around 30, Betsy.  

BETSY GRASECK: So then would you at all consider continuing this action if opportunities came up that would enable you to do that? To continue to shrink the portfolios there?  

JAMIE DIMON: Probably not because at one point we're getting the portfolios very low relative to what they could be if you look at competitor banks. It's one way to manage interest rates, maximize tax position, et cetera. And obviously, it's a capital decision too versus your other capital decisions, but we have no real intent to reduce it.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So I guess I was a little surprised that you went further from your actions last quarter, so I was just wondering if you would consider going forward.  

And then just on the trading side, I hear you that this quarter was extremely strong, and congratulations there, it was outstanding. But I'm sort of confused as to why we should be thinking to bring our numbers back down to as low as they have been prior to the release of the results. Because when we look at volatilities and client flows in some of your key product areas, they do seem to be running at a rate that's above what they had been, at least in fourth quarter and then January, February. So even though we've gotten into a weaker environment here relative to maybe the middle of March, I'm sort of wondering why we should be as conservative as we have been prior to the release of these results.  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, the first is like I said, it's always been seasonal here. And they've always had a much stronger first quarter than second quarter. And the second is it is April -- what's today? 20th, right. So I don't know, forget markets and all the stuff like that, I think we've seen for us and maybe it's not everywhere, we don't know about other competitors, it's been very tough. And you're right, the environment itself may create opportunities to make that back, but it's been tough.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So you just don't want it in our base case?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Up next with Prudential Securities, we'll hear from Mike Mayo.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Hi. It's Prudential Equity Group.  

JAMIE DIMON: Is it Prudential or Wachovia?  

MIKE MAYO: Prudential Equity Group. In terms of the impact of higher interest rates, you made a general comment that your position for rising rates, and this comes right after a very good fixed income trading quarter, can you comment about the impact on your firm from the higher interest rates, especially with core CPI being higher today?  

JAMIE DIMON: First of all, the trading, the Investment Bank manages its own interest rate exposure, and obviously is in and out of it in multiple ways and multiple ways around the world, so I'm really going to refer to the rest of the Company. When I say fill in neutral interest rates, we look at -- Mike mentioned the up 100 basis points, the whole curve moving up, and you can do a million different scenarios. Those scenarios include on our side is how we are going to reprice deposits, how we are going to re price credit cards.  

We have to kind of think through the competitive pressures, but they don't include the impact interest rates in the general environment. So if the rates go up and you have a booming environment, that will probably actually dwarf the impact of interest rates themselves. Or if rates go up in a stack inflation environment that would be very negative towards the old camps. So what we do, we look at the exposures to say we can actually handle interest rate swings, not a big deal on the income statement of the Company, but we are also protected against really adverse environments.  

MIKE MAYO: And did anything go wrong in April so far? I mean --  

JAMIE DIMON: On interest rate exposure?  

MIKE MAYO: Well, fixed income trading or otherwise in the month of April?  

JAMIE DIMON: All I'm going to say is what I've told you, it's been tough for us. That may be different for other people.  

MIKE MAYO: And just to reconcile a couple comments during this conference call, I thought you started off the conference call saying there will be a net incremental increase in the investment spending, 200 to 250 million, and later you seemed to imply it might only be 100 million. So starting the second quarter, the additional spending for marketing and technology will be how much higher and how long should we keep that in there?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Mike, it's Mike Cavanagh, so what I was saying is that from the levels we saw for those items in the first quarter, I would see us being up 200 to 250 in the second quarter. That's partly technology, partly marketing spend, and then I would see us holding at those levels for a while with the saves that I talked about also running through the line. So there's a lot of moving pieces, but the investment -- incremental spending is 200 to 250 versus the first quarter.  

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Are you including credit card in that?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yes, that's the whole Company.  

JAMIE DIMON: So Mike is talking about [inaudible] different numbers, he's talking about the whole Company including -- I said we just might include increased marketing spend, and that wasn't in what we would call the investment spending we showed you last year.  

MIKE MAYO: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Up next with NAB Research, we'll hear from Nancy Bush.  

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions for you. On Slide 8, Mike, you mentioned the lower non-compensation expenses and the higher comp expenses and in-sourcing as one of the sources of that change. Can you just quantify the headcounts that we're talking about there, and is that an ongoing trend?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I think we had an increase in the first quarter on the in-sourcing side of about 3,700. That's going to increase maybe by another thousand or so over the first half of the year and that's the effect of various in-sourcing efforts that we've got.  

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And secondly, Jamie, this is probably for you. You mentioned that you were very gratified with the cross sell of JPMorgan Investment Banking products to the Bank One customer base. Can you just give us some color on that? I mean, was that a material number in the first quarter, and does it sort of get bigger from here? I mean, can you just add something to that?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think the number -- the gross revenues, remember the Commercial Bank only gets a credit for a portion of them, and -- did we disclose that number in the -- so the gross revenues were about $100 million in the quarter, right? Is that correct?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: It might be a little higher than that.  

JAMIE DIMON: A little higher than that.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I think the net numbers on Commercial Bank was around $40 million, what you see in those numbers, depending on product it can be --  

JAMIE DIMON: Right. So the Commercial Bank was 40 million, but 100 million gross revenues. And part of those revenues are revenues that our Investment Bank would never have had. So actually I've asked them to make a list of deals that was brought just to Bank One customers, equity, fixed income and advisory that Bank One obviously wouldn't have had that JPMorgan would have had. And I don't know the proportion of 100s, but they already sent me a list of like 10 or 15 deals. All I'm saying is that feels pretty good that we're actually successfully bringing that.  

I've spoke with most of these clients, they're thrilled to keep their local banker in Indianapolis or Phoenix or Dallas and they are thrilled that they get the power of JPMorgan behind them. So we're adding incremental Investment Banking right into the Commercial Bank. In fact, the guy who runs the Investment Banking Group here, Doug Braunstein, he now thinks that the opportunity is much bigger than he would have thought before too. So hopefully, we'll build it over time.  

NANCY BUSH: Jamie, can you just add anything as far as the segment of the Bank One client that you're getting here? Is there sort of a sales segment or anything that's uniform through the list?  

JAMIE DIMON: No. It's across the Bank One customer base, but, for example, a lot of middle market and companies -- energy companies in Texas that know that Bank One has a great lending relationship with and that JPMorgan Investment Bank didn't have a relationship with.  

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Up next we have David Stumpf with A.G. Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning. Mark, could you provide a little insight into how the spin-off of the Private Equity operations will ultimately effect sort of reported results? Not necessarily the numbers obviously, but in a general sense, what line items will be affected and then the timing of that?  

JAMIE DIMON: First of all, it almost has no real effect. So think of it as there's $7 billion of equity in the balance sheet, or 7.2 now, right is that the number -- of which JPMorgan Partners is a little over six. We're still going to get the same return of those assets over time. And over time, those assets will come down. JPMorgan Partners actually will invest some more, so until they're completely spun off, that number may stay 6 billion or bounce around, et cetera.  

When the spin off is done, which I think is mid '06 or late '06 or something like that, then those assets will start to run down. We'll invest more money in JPMorgan Partners, we'll probably invest more money in our own equity ventures, but even -- so the total balance of Private Equity stuff will come down slowly over time. Whatever the returns are, that will be the same returns we got before. And if we don't put $1 billion into Private Equity, right? We will put the $1 billion into something else that will get a good return.  

So it won't affect the Company at all, for example, we can buy back stock. So it wouldn't have any really long-term impact on the Company and you'll see the Private Equity balances just come down more over time.  

DAVID STUMPF: That's great. Very helpful. And it will be a great opportunity, we're going to invest more money in JPMorgan Partners than somebody else. Thanks.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: And, David, the term "spin off" is a little bit of a confusing thing there, which Jamie described. It is not really a spin off, but that's the term that confuses people.  

DAVID STUMPF: Okay. That's helpful.  

JAMIE DIMON: We'll take one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And that question will come from Andy Collins of Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. Just on the Home Finance business. I was wondering if you could tell us what the production pipeline looks like and how we might want to model revenues there because they seem kind of volatile.  

JAMIE DIMON: They are volatile, and we keep on telling you, there are two lines -- the line called MSR, which we say model at zero, we're making simple for you. We hope to do better than that, but those are very volatile asset and hedging assets and liabilities. The revenue line called "production servicing" which includes the origination and sale of loans, the warehousing of loans, the hedging of the loans in the warehouse, the kind of spread you get on that, there's been a tough market and it's also volatile because it's based not just on production like I said, it's based upon the spread on sale and your hedging. So we think it may be -- it obviously bounces all over the place. It's hard to give you real guidance on that one.  

I do want to point out, by the way, one of the things we're doing more and more is a lot more of our production is going to the [inaudible] trading desk at JPMorgan to help build a world class MBS business here. So we are producing more old day loans, more prime reductions going here, more jumbos going here, and given the chance to build a business which is going great for Chase Home Finance and for JPMorgan mortgages.  

ANDY COLLINS: Unrelated question on the TS&S business, just wondering if the reorganization will see the revenues and income jump around going forward on that business?  

JAMIE DIMON: No. The reorganization itself should have no real impact on the trends in that business, and obviously, we think it's a better way to be organized, so hopefully we think over time it will strengthen the growth of that business and the margins.  

ANDY COLLINS: So we're done there pretty much.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes. We thank you all for joining the call. We will talk to you soon. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's conference and we thank you all for joining us. Have a great day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
advcos : MCI Inc | bone : Bank One Corp | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050504e14k000gx
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
11,807 words
   PD
19 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to welcome you to the J.P. Morgan Chase fourth quarter 2004 earnings review meeting. Today's meeting may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of J.P. Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  

   TD
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, the risk that the cost of savings and any other synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected and the risk that excess capital is not generated in the merger as anticipated are not utilized in an accretive manner. Additional risks and uncertainties are described in our 2003 annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly report Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Internet website, to which reference is hereby made.  

All members of the media will be in a listen-only mode for the duration. If callers from the financial community would like to signal for a question, they can press the star or asterisk key followed by the digit 1 to be placed into our queue. Again, that is star 1 if you would like to pose a question.  

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mike Cavanagh. Please go ahead, sir.  

MIKE CAVANAGH, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Are we on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Yes. Please go ahead.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Are we on the phone?  

OPERATOR: Your line is open. Please go ahead.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Okay. Great. Well, good morning, everybody. It's Mike Cavanagh here in New York. Welcome to the people on the phone and people in the room. I got the disclaimer bringing up here for the folks that are in the room here. Slide 2 now, the agenda. What we're going do here is I'm going to quickly cover fourth quarter results, skipping a lot of the slides that are in here, but they are in here for completeness and I'll be around along with Ann Borowiec and the Investor Relations team after the call to cover any follow-up questions on the quarter.  

Before we get started, I do just want to point out we got a lot of people on the phones from the Company and in the room here, especially a lot of people from finance who have done an unbelievable job killing themselves for the Company over the past couple of months and year to get us ready for today which is to help us explain our results, get ready for explaining what next year looks like, which Jamie's going do in a little bit, and really putting us in a position to really manage this place well. So I wanted to just publicly and sincerely thank everybody for all the hard effort getting us here.  

Moving along now, I'm on slide number 3, the highlights for the quarter, results were mixed. We declined in results in the home finance business, results in the investment bank revenues were up on higher trading results and stronger investment banking fees, all our other businesses had improved earnings over the third quarter and we had strong private equity gains of about 506 million for the quarter. We bought back 600 million in stock in the quarter, leaving us with an estimated Tier 1 ratio of 8.7%.  

Moving along to slide 4, this shows results on a GAAP basis, so remember that fourth quarter of 2003 is on a J.P. Morgan's-only basis. Results for the quarter, $1.7 billion or 46 cents after tax. Non-operating charges totalled $650 million and were after tax and were the same items that we had last quarter. Card decertification, conforming methodologies, both of those items go away after this quarter and also merger costs, which continue and just expect those to be lumpy in quarters throughout the year next year and beyond. As I leave this with operating earnings, 2.3 billion pretax or 64 cents, up from 60 cents last quarter.  

From here, I'm going to shift to pro forma combined results, and just to note -- and I'm going to skip a few slides here -- just to note that we've provided for you -- for all of you and for ourselves, this quarter our supplement, our financial supplement is done on both a GAAP basis and on a pro forma combined basis to make understanding the pro forma comparisons a bit easier.  

So if we skip now to slide 9, the Investment Bank's results, you see earnings of $660 million, were up 5% versus the prior quarter, but down 43% year-over-year. The big story is Investment Banking fees, up to $1.1 billion, which is our best quarter in the past 3 years. Jamie will talk about our maintenance and improvement of our lease table rankings, so I won't touch on that here, but we're very proud of the results there.  

Fixed income markets results, revenues were up $415 million versus the prior quarter on stronger client and portfolio management trading results, while partially offsetting that was equity markets, portfolio management trading results were down. In the quarter, credit portfolio revenues were $348 million, up 128 versus the prior quarter. Much of that was driven based on gains on the sale of securities received in workouts in exchange for debt previously contracted.  

Credit costs in the quarter were a benefit of $173 million, reflecting continued strong credit quality in the Investment Bank and the ratio of loan loss allowance to loans to clients of 3.9% as a result. Expenses for the quarter in the Investment Bank were up substantially, driven by increases in compensation costs, the comp to revenue ratio for the quarter was high at 43%, bringing the full-year ratio to 38% versus 37% from the prior year.  

I'm going to skip slide 10, the aggregation of retail financial services, but you can see all the businesses there and what the earnings results were and move right along to slide 11, which is consumer and small business banking where earnings were up significantly year-over-year to $430 million. Revenues at 2.1 billion were up on higher deposits and wider spreads, continuing the story of adding bankers, adding branches, growing accounts, gaining deposits. We also in the quarter rolled out across the entire footprint, which includes the legacy Chase branches, a branch P&L and sales-based compensation, so know it's consistent practices there across the entire branch system of 2,500 branches.  

Going to the next slide, really a big story in the quarter in home finance, as you see on slide 12. If you look up to the top right box, I'll take you through first a couple of significant items that effected the results of the quarter for the home finance business. First of all, we had a $95 million benefit, of which 86 million was a net release of an allowance for loan losses, which was associated with the sale of our $4 billion manufactured housing loan portfolio in December. Second, we incurred $90 million of losses on the sale of securities used for risk management of the MSR, taken due to repositioning of our hedge. And we also took 52 million of market value adjustments on a portfolio of hybrid ARM mortgages transferred to help for sale in the quarter.  

So after you adjust for these items, you see we've broken down this page into the P&Ls for the 2 major businesses, prime production servicing and consumer and real estate lending, and as a result of excluding those items, or adjusting for them, you see that prime production and servicing earnings were essentially 0 in the quarter, driven by prime production volumes and revenues being down substantially year-over-year, as well as the performance of the MSR net of hedging being negative $97 million in the quarter versus positive 153 in the quarter last quarter due to adjustments in the value of the MSR asset net of its hedges. So that is the result.  

After that, when you look at the MSR net of hedging line and exclude from that 93 -- $90 million of specific losses taken on repositioning the hedge, the net result was $97 million loss on the MSR net of hedging. You see how we're going from the significant item of 90 to the 187 reported, just back out that 90 and you get to 97, which is sort of core performance of the MSR net of its hedge. That's just due to just that, the change in value of the MSR net of its hedges.  

On the same basis, adjusting for the hybrid ARM and manufactured housing sale, consumer real estate earnings were up substantially year-over-year basically due to growth in the retained mortgages, particularly the home equity business. That's it on the home finance side.  

Moving on to card, and where there's remaining businesses, not a big story, so I'm going move through these quickly and we'll take any big questions afterwards, but here card services, profits up 30% year-over-year to 515 million with a return on outstandings of 2.45%. Really driven by average managed outstandings up 5% year-over-year to $132 billion and charge volume up 9% year-over-year to $75 billion. We also had a charge-off ratio of 524 for the quarter, which was better than the prior year, but up from the seasonally exceptionally low level of 488 last quarter, which was driven by lower bankruptcies. And also in card during the quarter, we had a very major card conversion to the TSYS platform of all of the remaining Bank One cards that hadn't already been converted to that platform, which was successful with no hitches, so very proud of that.  

Moving on to slide 14, again a pretty straightforward story of year-over-year, quarter-over-quarter earnings growth in the commercial bank, primarily driven by growth in deposits and improved spread on those deposits.  

Going to slide 15, Treasury & Securities Services, there was a special gain in last year's results, which when you exclude that, the earnings of Treasury & Securities Services were up 36% year-over-year, and again, primarily driven by significant growth, 30% growth in deposits to $150 billion. We also had included in that the growth due to the EFS acquisition in January of this year and then core business volume growth across a slew of products in this business. Expenses of $10 million for the -- $10 million improvement for the quarter versus the third quarter, higher than you might be expecting given the absence of some adjustments to software values last quarter driven by on-boarding of new custody and fund accounting clients and higher legal and technology costs.  

Lastly, on the business side, moving to asset and wealth management, earnings of $263 million were up 30% year-over-year, pretax margin of 31% for the quarter. Assets under supervision and assets under management were up 11% and 7% year-over-year respectively, driving the 10% revenue growth year-over-year to $1.3 billion, which is really the driver of earnings here. During the quarter we also just need to note that we closed the acquisition of our 55% interest in Highbridge, the -- in mid-December, so looking forward, we're going to -- accounted for that on a minority interest basis, so just understand we'll need to adjust your model to reflect the gross-up of revenue and expenses going forward and then the accounting for the minority interest out of our expense base.  

Lastly, corporate. Corporate, we've shown here at the bottom, the breakout of earnings into 3 major buckets. We're trying to improve our disclosure and ability to explain what's going on in corporate into private equity, treasury and other corporate. Jamie's going spend a little bit of time talking about the numbers on that basis. And up above, you see the numbers the same way. We shared them with you last quarter.  

Big driver of the results here in the quarter were 506 million of private equity gains, no particular single large gains to mention. We also had a positive gain on a mark-to-market basis of $167 million embedded in that number and the resulted in a carrying value at the end of the quarter of $7.5 billion at year end, down 22% from last year.  

Other income, the other income line here, which was worse versus the prior quarter, reflects the absence of a couple of significant gains that were included in last quarter. And importantly, on the NII line here, negative $667 million in revenues, the change there reflects the repositioning of the treasury portfolio to a level that we think is appropriate, shorten the duration and lower the size of the portfolio to around $60 billion and so this earnings level of NII in corporate is about a base level to think of moving forward, though we expect to see it start to improve gradually over time.  

And from there, we're done with just a quarterly update and I'll pass it to Jamie for comments on the outlook.  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, COO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Mike, thank you very much. Good morning, everybody. I'm going to try to give you a merger update and make a lot of statements about the future, so I'm trying to keep it as simple as possible, but like Einstein said, "Simplify as much as possible, but no more." So we have some accuracy in these numbers. I won't take you through a lot on this page, but I think the folks of this Company have done a great job and already accomplished in a short 6 months some unbelievable kind of merger-related stuff from in-sourcing all of our technology so we added like 5,000 heads on January 1st. We're doing it ourselves now. Changing all the reporting architects, expenses, P&L, budgeting, the holding company merger, TSYS card conversions and changing and conforming with with the old policies across the Company. So we're operating fully as one company at this point. I do think that's a great accomplishment.  

The financial disciplines, this obviously to me is a very big deal. These are kind of like our operating disciplines. We have [inaudible] of P&L. We understand how the expense are allocated. They are allocated in what we call efficient basis. We have thorough business reviews every month. We go through it, we're looking and still dissecting how we make money at levels much deeper than we just showed you here. For example, in the prime business, where profits are way down, we weren't effected by channel. Great excruciating details, we understand the competition deeply. We've changed a little bit how we share our revenues, so we have kind of third party pricing.  

We're still making some changes, so the budgets, I think we were on -- I think this is patch 5. There are a couple of them that are just going to do a patch 6 or patch 7 and we're going to do them until we get them right. Some are just more complex and I put technology in that category. I think the real benefit from doing all this kind of stuff is living with it now for the future. It's not just gaining in place, but actually living with it.  

Some kind of top-side comments about this page 21 for those of you on the phone. First, I'm going make a lot of comments. I just want to say that we're not -- we're assuming a steady state economy and a modestly increasing S&P and the -- basically implied rate curve, that is not our forecast. We think the analysts should make their own forecast about that, but my comments relate to kind of a steady state and obviously, if you forecast out 3 months, it's easier to assume that true, probably a lot harder to assume it's true in the fourth quarter.  

We're also planning that we'll go back to a more normalized credit cost, so it's going to add -- and we won't have benefits of taking down reserves, we might earlier in the year, but not late in the year. Obviously, it adds a lot of additional costs. We don't know when it will become more normal, but we think it's reasonable that some time by the end of this year, early next year.  

Mike mentioned the lower treasury risk portfolio. We reduced the size of the portfolio and we reduced our earnings at risk. When we make the earnings at disclosure, I think it's going to show that our earnings at risk to 100-basis point increase is -- was it 200, Mike, 170? Negative. You say it's still negative and that's what it was last time you saw it. We have done extensive work to model credit card deposit, TSS, by product to get that right, so a lot of it is fine tuning to get that exactly right. And I also want to just point out in terms of NII and the portfolio, we can always add back the $30 billion and you have a lot of revenue. So I would call that the earnings in store of having a little excess capital.  

Merger stage is built into play at a very detailed level, there's some of the detail there. And I think good news is, and I hope you'll see it through the rest of the presentation, we're not stopping investing in the future of the business, and, you know, the only business I would say that's materially cut back on some of the stuff it would have done on its own, innovations, product, design, et cetera, is TS&S because they are in the nexus of the conversion, but everybody else is making the proper investments to grow and I think there's more efficient use of resources. So I want to show you the expense numbers. I'll comment on where I think that's coming from.  

Next page, comments on revenues. This is really -- we do -- we don't run this Company for analysts expectations or estimates, but we do look at what you all write and try and understand how you get there and what the differences are between our expectations, and Ann wants you to be very clear, she can give you more detail later, we expect lower NII than most of the analysts out there. It's the investment portfolio, it's the loan portfolio and other NII relate stuff in the Investment Bank and we did sell manufactured housing and a bunch of other assets and auto lease is run down to 8 billion from 12 billion. Obviously that's all going to drive NII down, and so we think the better way to look at NII is to look at the fourth quarter and things like treasury make it better over time, getting pretty close to a good run rate.  

We kind of assume a lot of differences in models that will get 300 million of private equity gains. We don't know the number. It's very lumpy. You think that's one you should kind of count on. If it is more than that and we can and want to, we may take bond losses or AFS portfolio losses, depending on what we want to do, so we don't count more than that, nor do we think we get paid for more than that when we report them, and there obviously will be quarters there's going to be less than that because some of it is very market-driven. We don't plan to be taking treasury securities gains. Obviously, we've got the rebounds, the portfolio, et cetera, but we would be more the nature to be tax efficient and take losses if possible.  

Looking at the MSR, and we spent a lot of time -- I'll comment about [inaudible] the prime business a little bit later. We don't expect MSR hedging gains. They could be losses, they could be profits, it is a very volatile asset. I'm going to make some more comments about that in a little bit. And the last bullet point is there are a whole bunch of one-time gains and losses and Ann wants to make sure you all don't double count them in revenues and expenses. She can take you through that in detail.  

Expenses, again, we try to make it very simple. Look at the total Company's expenses and kind of levelize the volatility of comp. Obviously, comp is set every quarter based on the expectations that quarter, quality of earnings, quality of revenues, et cetera, but it's been about $8.8 billion. You all should say that we have said we would have $200 million of cost saves in the fourth quarter, so why is it 8.6 and we do think we got the cost saves. In fact, if you want to question, the one I look at the most is headcount. The headcount is down 6.5 thousand from basically -- from -- because of the deal over time and that's probably worth on an annualized run rate $650 million. So we're getting there in terms of the headcount.  

We have had high expenses in litigation. We are deliberately spending more money in marketing. We have ramped up some of the technologies we're talking about. We made one deliberate change, I think the right change, but to put the whole Company in one cash and stock mix, for all of equity-type related compensation. That probably cost us, I think it was $100 million a year of additional GAAP expense. Obviously in the long run, it will be a wash.  

So we took the 8.8 as a benchmark and go to the next page. So, again, these are not forecasts. We are giving this to you to make it easier to where how we look at it and we've been asked this question a lot of times. So you take the 35.2 billion, remember, that includes comp, we have the acquisition of Highbridge and a few other little things in there, so that will obviously add to the comp. This Does not include Cazenove, right? So the adjusted baseline, 35.5.  

You can see the merger saved in addition to what we got last year, we'll get 1.5 billion this year, and spending, other than that is up 1.1 billion. So you could say that spending other than the merger saves up about 3%, it could have been more than that. We think it's stuff we have to spend and we're going to spend and very high value spending, which we're not going call it investment spending. But I kind of broke out down below some of the incrementals, not all of it, some of it, which we think is the stuff that we're going to have to do to build a company right. $600 million in technology infrastructure is probably higher than we would have thought and I'll give you pages, give you a little bit more detail in that.  

RFS and retail, new branches and new sales force alone is about $300 million, so we do think that's clearly growing earnings in the future. IB, we're adding in a whole bunch of areas and we have additional technology spend that we're going have to do there. Asset and wealth management is growing in certain new markets and we'll be opening a few branches this year in private banking, et cetera, so we're starting to fund future growth, we're not going to run the Company this year as if we don't have to do it.  

Merger cost of saves, we just changed the estimate from 4 plus and minus for 4 to 4.5. Again, it's a very lumpy number, it will change over time. Most of the difference here, really relates to some of these big buildings we have, what they're worth, what we can market them for, et cetera.  

And headcount, looking forward, we have the 161,000 today. We're in-sourcing about 6,000. Okay. That is not just IBM, which I think was about 4,000, but we're doing our own plastics and statements and printing and so that's about 1,000, so we're going to break it out in more detail for you, but kind of the run rate will be 167,000.  

The merger save this year will be 5. And we're adding back about 6 in various areas and just to give you a feel, and for that is about 2.5 thousand is the retail new stuff alone, new sales people, new branches. So obviously, we are making some sort of investments. There's additional headcount in the IB, so if you look through the businesses, and we're not going to you take through all of this, we use a lot more what I call tooth to tail, a lot more sales, coverage, banking and a lot less staff. So we're trying to become more efficient in how we run the business.  

Credit, next page gives you credit. It simply shows you where we kind of think normal cycles will be. Those are kind of the 50/50 kind of numbers, the normal cycle and we think that the Investment Bank, which is really large corporate loans, will be approaching normal by the fourth quarter. Like I said, it could be some time in '06. It really depends on the cycle. Commercial banking is already at 35 basis points. Normally it would be 65. We don't think we'll get to 65 right away, but it will probably be something less than that next year. Card services is around 5 to 5.25, it's staying there.  

Early signs look pretty good and we have some visibility next quarter. And I won't take you through retail. They seem to be pretty much on. The important thing here, also we have very strong loan loss reserves. We think we've got proper, detailed, diligent and conservative loan loss reserves. The balance sheet, as you know, is important to us. I think you can see it getting stronger every time you see it. I think we've finished the conforming accounting that we think are very good accounting policies. Shown loan loss reserves capital at 8.7. A lot of capital generation in spite of all the things we're doing. We bought back $7 million of stock and we are planning to buy back stock next year. We're not going tell you the exact number, but obviously we'd be generating capital depending on how we grow, plenty of capital to buy back stock and we think that's the right thing to do.  

Make some comments now on each line of business. Corporate, Mike kind of mentioned it. We think this is a better way to show you all the business, which is kind of 3 P&L's, because other than that, there's a lot of ins and outs. Private equity, you could do your own estimates if you think it's 1.2 billion, page 30, 1.2 billion of kind of annualized pretax gains. Treasury, the fourth quarter number is the best number looking forward, rolling forward, it will probably get a little bit better over time.  

Other corporate is all of the other corporate expenses in that essentially and allocate out, it will go up by about the $600 million technology spend next year. It's not that we're simply keeping all of that here. What we change is all allocation methodologies, the units of payment we call effective cost, that's the retained residual, but most the increase relates to corporate expense. This line will obviously bounce around a little bit. There's a lot of things that go through it, including tax-related adjustments, but we're trying to get a good handle on it. It's also going up a little bit because of real estate amnesty. People have handed back more real estate, it's a good thing we did that so we know where it is, and obviously, we'll liquidate some more of that over time.  

Next page shows you what's on our plate next year. This page should both make you happy and make you nervous. It should make you happy because it is a complete set of all the things that you would do if you owned the business to get it in absolutely top notch systems operations, which we look at as our core and spine. It's the Texas conversions, which are of course multiple product sets and business lines. It's also gearing up the New York conversion, which will be a year after that. It's clearing conversions, card conversions, we're -- human resource conversions, it's the whole risk infrastructure and finance infrastructure.  

The Investment Bank has its own work to do, which had started a while ago, which we're building over time. It's expanding, building and buying better data centers, both to give us a lower cost and to give us more stronger and more proficient processing power. We're refreshing the home network, needs a lot of work inside data centers around the world to make sure it's top notch. And we're consolidating lots of operating centers, call centers, check processing centers, but by the end of '05, we've been blown away to building some of the great systems and operations and this should lead to great productivity in '06 and '07. This should make you happy, it should also make you a little nervous. It's a full plate of work in tech and operations. I'll comment once more on that a little bit later.  

Investment Bank, couple of quick comments with each business now. We have a strong Investment Banking pipeline going into 2005, which Mike pointed out, over $1 billion of underwriting [ph] and M&A revenue in the quarter. We feel great about that. We're focusing and building the client-driven businesses, does not mean we're cutting back our proprietary, but we're always building the client-driven businesses. I'll make a few comments about that in a second.  

Credit portfolio obviously down. The recoveries of workouts is going to go down. The portfolios were the last so we will come down a little bit. And we're spending a little bit more to, I think I've pointed out, to get more efficient and build the infrastructure. We have not kind of put Cazenove in our numbers yet, but that's also a big thing in front of Investment Bank. We are very excited about the opportunities there.  

Next page, page 33 gives you some of the ideas on what we're investing between controls, growth and new business in the Investment Bank. We're going try to build out our energy business a little bit, a little bit of your fixed income and FX prime brokerage, a little bit, equity derivatives in cash, take some asset backs, and mortgage backs, we think we have great opportunities there. So we're going add what we need to build up those businesses, and obviously, the control and efficiencies is something you simply have to do.  

The next page shows you the progress the Company's made on building its global rankings. These are market shares, but I think it tells you that this is a world class global bank and the only point I want to make is we're going build this business relentlessly, relentlessly, desk by desk, person by person, system by system, coverage by coverage, company by company, country by country and we're not going to go in and out, up and down, and flavor of the day. And we're very optimistic about the platform that J.P. Morgan has built over the last 5 or 10 years.  

Consumer small business, you should expect more of the same. We're planning on 150 new branches, 1,000 -- possibly 1,000 new sales people. We're optimistic we can grow investment sales, mortgage sales, home equity production, do a better job in credit cards, continue debit cards. We're excited about the business. We're good at it and hopefully this will continue to grow.  

The only comment I'm going to make on auto is we do expect tougher margins and lower volume. That may change, but that's what we see today. And I always make the mistake of skipping some of the really healthy businesses, consumer lending is doing great and we do expect to grow that in the future. As some of you know, I focus on the negatives. Prime production, Mike mentioned it. I'll just make a few additional points. We have a new management team, which we're excited about. We think we'll be extremely good. We are not optimistic, we have now broken out prime production servicing view. We are not optimistic that the earnings will improve in '05. That does not mean they won't. Now a lot of that depends on interest rates, yield curves, our ability to manage the MSR.  

The MSR, we're not planning for MSR hedging gains. I think the real comment I want to say is we're going to spend a lot of time trying to understand how we want to manage using a natural hedge of production or the MSR hedging strategies, because we want to just understand that a little bit deeper. And obviously, expenses should come down a little bit because volumes are coming down.  

Card business, we do expect modest growth in spending outstandings. There is not one initiative that we think we should be taking. I'm not going mention them all for competitive purposes, but we're -- we'll be doing a lot. Lot of business areas, branding areas. We expect expenses to continue to improve as an area I think that we'll exceed our original merger estimates and we do hope to get to a roof of 3% to the end of the year. We're obviously not there now, but that's our objective.  

There is one issue here, which I'll put on you notice for, is the FFVIC. If the rules have changed, which we expect in the third quarter, for minimum payments that easily could drive up delinquencies and charge-offs. We don't know exactly when it is, obviously it will be late in the year. When we know more, we'll let you know.  

Asset and wealth management, we've had good growth, particularly in the fourth quarter. We're growing a little bit in private banking, private client. The investment manager institutional side, we did the Highbridge acquisition, which we're excited about, so there will be plenty of high expenses from the acquisition and we're also making investments and we plan to expand some of those businesses or start the process to expand them a little bit more aggressively in 2005. And there's a little footnote from Ann, again, that the accounting for 12-B1C is going to add about $50 million to revenues and expense. So she can explain that to you a little bit later.  

You have all asked and we're finally going to give you what do you think you should be doing. And I have the word up there, I want to point out the most important word on the page, all of my partners don't agree with all of these numbers. They think I may be more ambitious than I should be. I don't think -- I think they will agree. But I put the word aspiration, because I think it's a very reasonable thing for you to say what do we think we should be doing these businesses. I'll comment on each quickly.  

Investment Bank, 20% ROE through the cycle. Maybe the business has gotten tougher than that. It's a volatile business. That means 30% plus in good times. Hopefully no worse than 10% in bad times. We think we should be a superior performer in the business. There's still debates internally, we're still looking at some of the cap [ph] occasionally, I always promise Bill Wench [ph] I'll say that.  

Consumer small business, our overhead ratio is 65%. Now we want to have growth, and we think it's reasonable to get this 60%. Why not less? We're just leaving ourselves a little room because we don't know fully some of the costs of operating in the metro areas, the competition's going to get tougher and we want to include paying for growth in the number, because obviously you could drive it lower if you eliminated $200 million of expense and opening all new branches. Home finance prime production, we're going take a pass. We are spending a lot of time trying to figure out channel profitability and make it a stronger business.  

Home finance consumer growth lending, we expect strong profitable growth as we've had in the past. Card, probably the next target as we get to the 3 RUE [ph], 3.5 RUE, some of the better competitors are higher. Obviously there's mix issues and international issues, but we think 3.5 is a reasonable target. Commercial banking, 52% overhead with growth. While we were 51% last quarter, so obviously we don't intend to get worse. This is one area there will be some change in how we allocate expenses between TS and commercial. I'll leave that to next quarter.  

TS&S, 30% pretax margin, obviously different by business, I think 4 or 5 points higher than we are today. Asset and wealth management, about 35%, Jeff Daley is here, you can ask him, but he got to 31%, so he knows that 35 -- and he knows we're not efficient, the 35 is doable. Obviously, it's different by mix and by business and when we're paying for growth and not. Private equity is 1.2 billion gains on a $7.5 billion portfolio is not aggressive, it's not ambitious, it's not conservative. It's kind of I think what you're entitled to earn over a period of time. And that big chunk of corporate expense, okay, which I think is 2.3 billion tax, kind of all the corporate in and out, we think we should improve it by $1 billion over a couple of years. Don't double count all this merger saves and stuff like that, but we think there's reasonable long-term aspiration.  

We want our employees to think it's reasonable long-term aspirations because they actually have a play in 677 million shares between options and restricted stock. That's a lot of play and I'm trying to get all of my brethren here to stop thinking black shawls. Start thinking get the stock to 100. Okay. That means the $60 a share times 67 million shares is close to $40 billion. That's what we should be thinking and people have quite a play in it. Member of senior management is required to hold 75% of the stock that they get through options exercise or restricted stock grants. We think that's great.  

The compensation plans and accountability is being pushed way down, so you might mention that we have new P&L's in the branches, in all the Chase branches and that's how they will be paid. And so these things are starting to take effect and we want to be -- I would love to be the best paying company for the best performance, the best performing company. And so, that's kind of the rigorous discipline to decide what is the best performance, are you really there, did you really earn it, and so we do want to be there and have great accountability. The management team, by the way, is really starting to hum and come together and have these conversations and healthy debates, so we feel very good about that.  

My last slides give you a few conclusions. The financial operating disciplines in place, we're on our way to the forward balance sheet. We are going to continue to drive efficiency and accountability. It's a big deal. You can see where we accomplish some of the things that would make us an efficient company which will work for shareholders, and it gives us the ability to grow, invest and be far more competitive, and remember, the competitors don't wait for us to improve our efficiencies, so we are in a little bit of a rush. We're constantly reviewing and we'll be talking to you more about trading risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, managing and gaining return for it, which I think is maybe the most critical thing.  

2005 is a complex year for us. We will not accomplish everything that I just told you. Some will do better. Some will do worse. I've never been in a company where it all just happens exactly the way we want it to. We think we'll accomplish most of it. We want to be ambitious with ourselves and start pushing pretty hard. We think that if we accomplish most of it, we will be in fabulous position for 2006, 2007 and going on.  

Now, obviously, I've mention to you a lot of moving parts. We're going to go back to some of the businesses and kind of relook at some of the expectations we have, whether they are too high or too low. We also feel pretty good about the fact that most of the stuff that we looked at in the business review, we decided and have done something about manufactured housing, we sold 4 billion of assets, leasing, we're down to 8 billion already from I think it was 11 to 12 billion.  

We have acquired some good properties or merged or have done joint ventures, Cazenove, Vastera, so we're not sleeping and we're not waiting. We want our teams to continue. Obviously in this merger year, they have to be things that don't effect [inaudible] that we get going there. And we -- we have a growing and complete belief that we've got very good businesses that we're going to make really hum over time.  

So with that, I will stop talking and open the floor to questions or comments. I'll take some here, then I guess we'll go to the phones. Go ahead. I'll repeat it for you.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, I'm somewhat interested in terms of international business, the overall returns and growth opportunities there and just how you gain position. Could you expand a little bit in how you're positioning internationally in relationship to the competition? What are some of the big opportunities internationally, maybe acquisition opportunities?  

JAMIE DIMON: Right.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: And what are some of the risks that you might be facing over the near term.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you said -- we can obviously give you more of that in the future. Investment Bank internationally is very well positioned and if you look at the shares, they are quite -- I think they are -- they are not in the package, but they are doing great and we're going to expand there just like we are here. Private Banking as a very good platform overseas and it has the same kind of growth plans I believe that we have here. Investment management, we've got a complete global platform, we have the same kind of growth plan we have here. Most -- a lot of the other businesses, TS&S, we have one of the great platforms there and we are growing across the board. We don't have acquisition plans. We've got a lot to do. One day I think international will provide some great opportunity. If there's something that's so dramatically fabulous for us, we'll look at it. Any other questions in this room? John?  

JOHN, ANALYST: Thanks. Mike alluded to some comp ratios for the Investment Bank. I was just wondering, A, how he was deriving those, and B -- well, when I calculate them on a risk-adjusted basis, I have that it went up year-over-year pro forma from 33 to 36%.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Right.  

JOHN: And that the gross, not risk adjusted went from 34 to 38. Obviously a very significant increase. I was just wondering if we could discuss targets there and why they went up as much as they did.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Yeah, first thing is, there was a comp plan in place. Okay. The comp plan relates to the type of business, not just gross revenues, so some businesses, and I think is appropriate, is worth more than other revenues and, for example, credit portfolio revenues aren't taking that kind of risk, it isn't quite the same as underwriting type revenues. So part of that, I believe relates to mix and the plan that was in place. Part of it relates to, you do have a competitive situation. You have to look at how you are going compete in the world out there, and how you want to grow and what you want to keep. And part of the relation, you do add people during the course of the year and some people leave during the course of the year. And I'm not going give you a ratio for next year other than to say, you know, if we accomplish kind of our -- the number that I gave you of expense, I should have said, is the 35.1 billion, was assuming no change in comp. Now, I think if we have a good year, you should assume that the comp goes up a little bit and that would be true for the Investment Bank too. I want the Investment Bank's comp to go up. We just want it to go up for the right reasons. And we maybe sometime down the road will give you more of a guidance about that ratio.  

JOHN: In talking about credit, you had Investment Bank credit normalizing to 100-basis point losses by the end of '05. I was a little surprised at that, given that non-performers continue to decline and you only had 20-basis point losses in the fourth quarter. Seems like that could stretch out considerably farther.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I thought I said that it's getting close to normal by late -- I'm more conservative than everybody else, by late '05, it may be mid '06. But the fact is it's clearly trying to get back to normal. Credit -- credit itself is getting a little bit looser out there and we've all seen these cycle many, many times.  

JOHN: Are there things specifically that you see in your own portfolio that would --  

MIKE CAVANAGH: No, no.  

JOHN: -- make you go in that direction?  

MIKE CAVANAGH: No, other than we expect less recovery than we had in the past. The same reason they just said nonperformance again.  

JOHN: Okay. Thanks.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Jamie, if we look at the Investment Bank, fixed income revenues are about half of revenues and they were down about $1 billion year-over-year. Obviously, third quarter was pretty tough, but could you help us in terms of your thinking, the outlook for the fixed income businesses here?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, we expect the fixed income business to do well. They have had -- I'm just going to check the number real quickly here. You say down 1 billion year-over-year, if you look at fixed income markets, fourth quarter I have 1.5 billion and last year I have 1.5 billion. Oh, the full year.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.  

JAMIE DIMON: No, listen, obviously we've had a very volatile year and last quarter it was 1.1 billion, bounced back to 1.5 billion. We're optimistic we've got a very good franchise and obviously it's a more volatile earning stream, but we're not pessimistic as some other people out there about fixed income trading. I'm not going to give you a more specific number. Go ahead, yes.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I think in your assumptions, at least as I interpreted it, you were forecasting, you said normal markets and a normal curve and by -- I didn't know if you meant by normal curve --  

MIKE CAVANAGH: The implied yield curve.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay. So it's -- because we don't seem to have a particularly normal curve at this point.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: I meant, I should have put the implied yield curve.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay.  

MIKE CAVANAGH: Right. Sorry.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Still focusing on the line of business stuff in the Investment Bank, you had a negative trading number on the equity side this quarter, obviously an unusually tough result, but it kind of puts into perspective the fact that the equity franchise remains not nearly as profitable as it is at a lot of the other firms and I was just wondering if you could give us an update after your business review of what you're intending to do in order to try to put that business more on a more profitable footing.  

JAMIE DIMON: Equity market is 243 of revenue versus last quarter of 455 and obviously it's been a little lumpy. There was some bad trades in there this quarter, so hopefully we don't expect those to recur. I think you got to look at the equity business, it is a tough business. You got to separate the 3 pieces, cash, underwriting and derivatives. In underwriting, I think we've done okay and where J.P. Morgan Chase was -- the way I'm going look at it, 5, 6 or 7 years ago it was nowhere and now it's somewhere. We will be a competitor in the equity underwriting business. We've always been good in equity derivatives and we'll continue to do that. It is where we had some of our issues this quarter. In the cash business, I think the Company's, you know, we've spent some time talking about it and I think we have grown in strength over years, probably not to where we want to be, but all 3 of those I just separate them and obviously work together as one business and we'll be a competitor in the equity business. It will be a lower margin, tougher business for a while, but it does not mean we're going to get out of it. It simply means we're going to get tougher about it.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: But can you give us an update on anything you may -- any decisions you may have made during the recent business reviews for a little bit more color on exactly what they are going try to do to try to reposition.  

JAMIE DIMON: No, we're not trying to reposition at all. We're just building the business as best we can. It's just a tough business. We have made no major decisions or any business views about the equity business. I also think other companies have a lot of other stuff in there. Okay. So, you know, some companies have specialist operations. Some have private equity investments that show up in there. I don't know. We're going to build the business.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: In your--  

JAMIE DIMON: Then after this one, we'll go to the phones, okay. Yeah.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: In your 2005 plans, you're talking about the prime brokerage and fixed income and foreign exchange.  

JAMIE DIMON: Right.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: To build the equity business, you need an equity prime brokerage business and would this require us to wait until Bossel [ph] 2 comes out?  

JAMIE DIMON: I don't know what it's got to do with Bossel 2.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: It lowers your capital charges against your margin lending.  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, maybe I shouldn't make this statement. We're going make our own economic decisions about what businesses are worth, not because of regulatory capital. So Bossel 2 shouldn't affect those kind of decisions. I didn't get a day late a dollar short to build the equity prime brokerage business. Too hard to do. You won't catch up. I also think you don't have to be it to be a big winner. Obviously it's been driving a lot of the results today. That may not be true in a couple of years, so that does not mean that one day we may not change our mind and want to buy into that. Why don't we go to the phones and answer some of the questions there.  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Glenn Shorr of UBS.  

GLENN SCHORR, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, Jamie. Just one follow-up on the Investment Bank. I did notice that adjusted assets and trading assets had, you know, pretty meaningful pick up, 8 or 9% just sequentially. And you had mentioned that the capital allocations for the businesses isn't expected to change much, so are we at your comfort range in terms of the leverage and amount of risk being taken, which, by the way, I did see that VAR fell during the quarter despite the pickup.  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, the only way I would put is I think the guys run the Investment Banks, Steve Black and Bill Winters are very talented. The people in risk and trading are very talented and so I'm just going to know all the people, the situations there. I don't think the balance sheet bouncing up or down a little bit is that material a thing. Because a lot of that sometimes is just -- could be the [inaudible] book and trades and in process, et cetera. So, we're not -- those decisions on VAR were not made by me. They were really made by the folks who run that business and, you know, they would say the same thing I like to say, is we want to get paid more for the risk we're taking and that's their job and, so--  

GLENN SCHORR: Understood. I guess I'm just comping the adjusted asset level and leverage implied on the equity allocated to other investment banks and it's higher, but I assume that's going to flush out and when you hold them up to returns on that equity.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, the $20 billion is kind of our estimate of what the Company would need as a kind of a separate stand-alone company. And like I said, capital, both what we use for public reporting and for the trading debt, that's kind of under continuing review and it should be, by the way. We may adjust that down the road if we have good reason to.  

GLENN SCHORR: And then just for yucks [ph], slide 40 on your long-term financial aspirations.  

JAMIE DIMON: Right.  

GLENN SCHORR: If we were in the range of those aspirations, have you done the back of the envelope to see what the earnings power of J.P. Morgan you think is?  

JAMIE DIMON: I did, but I'm not going tell you. That's what you're there for.  

GLENN SCHORR: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: It's obviously -- listen, if you look at the last 2 quarters and frankly, we would be disappointed with them, and, you know, it would be considerably better than that, but that's what we should do for you. It's going take a while. We've got a lot going on, but that's what we're aiming for.  

GLENN SCHORR: Okay. Appreciate it, Jamie.  

JAMIE DIMON: Next question -- call -- question on the phones.  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Mike Mayo of Prudential.  

JAMIE DIMON: Hey, Mike.  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Hi. I'm not sure I understand the source of the 600 million in additional technology spending. What have you discovered as you've gone deeper into the firm? I understand there's like, and correct me, 20 general ledgers at heritage J.P. Morgan. What are the issues that's causing that increase in tech spend.  

JAMIE DIMON: If you go back to the page that shows all the stuff we're doing, we went business by business and think of global technology being almost a separate business, data centers, network, help desks, laptops, et cetera. But business by business about what we need to build the proper infrastructure of the business. So the big areas, the big areas are data center, getting our networks refreshed, which really means new routers and new systems in stock, inside the data centers, the TSYS conversion. We don't do those conversions for no cost. They take a lot of time. The second -- the last TSYS conversion -- the Investment Bank itself is doing -- we're building better credit portfolio management systems, better end to end securities processing, which I think we have to have, and there's a whole series of stuff and it's hard for me to break it apart. 100 major projects, a good chunk are merger-related. A good chunk have nothing do with that.  

MIKE MAYO: Then one separate question.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

MIKE MAYO: As it relates to capital markets, what is your goal in equities? And then separately, do you feel good about the fixed income market? You had a great fixed income quarter, but with rates and whatever they might do, how do you feel about that going forward? Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: I'll tell you a little bit about the goal of equities, but I think you're going to have to wait more when I have a chance to spend more time. At one point we should have Steve Black and Bill Winters come and talk to you about that. Obviously the Company's moved up in the underwriting tables and we obviously aspire to move up even more and we think it's reasonable with our clients, our clientele and our capabilities, I think that's reasonable. In derivatives, we've always had a good position, we intend to keep it. And I think the real issue for us is cash trading, sales and trading, and we're -- we would like to be stronger. That is probably the toughest and lowest margin business right now and I think Brad [ph] also mentioned, you know, something like prime brokerage, which we're not going do for now. I think that is obviously a very attractive area for people who are in that business today. I just think it's too late for us.  

MIKE MAYO: And the outlook for fixed income?  

JAMIE DIMON: Fixed income, I think it should be okay, even with the modestly rising interest rate environment. Remember, the Company has a lot of strains and some unique strains on fixed income and some areas that I think we should build over time. I think we should be a lot better in asset backs and mortgages.  

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: You're welcome.  

OPERATOR: We'll go to Betsy Graseck of Morgan Stanley.  

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Hi, Jamie.  

JAMIE DIMON: Hi, Betsy.  

BETSY GRASECK: Two quick questions. One on the corporate line, you had mentioned that you're anticipating $1 billion in improvement over time in that line off of the '05 base. Is it fair to assume that that improvement comes primarily from the elimination of the near-term investment spending that you're doing?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah. No, first of all, let's -- I use the word aspirational. I would be surprised I'm standing here in front you it's 3 years and we haven't gotten most of it. I'm using the word aspirational and that's why I was a little careful about investment spending. I do think that we have a little bit of a hump of spending in technology, and so it's not that we're going to stop investment spending. It's that the hump will go away. We can do so much all at once in 1 or 2 years and I do think that that's part of it. Same with some other areas and consolidation work. Some of it will just be the real efficiencies of the consolidations running through.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Is there any benefit from treasury portfolio improving from here?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think the treasury line should gradually improve from here, from the fourth quarter.  

BETSY GRASECK: Right.  

JAMIE DIMON: As we retain capital and make wiser decisions and very careful how we fund the balance sheet, I think it will improve a little bit from here.  

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, but more than any change in impact or any change in expectations for --  

JAMIE DIMON: Remember, we buy back stock.  

BETSY GRASECK: Sure.  

JAMIE DIMON: But what carries is going to end up in that line.  

BETSY GRASECK: Sure.  

JAMIE DIMON: So there's a lot of swings. We'll try to explain them as we go forward.  

BETSY GRASECK: Then on the Investment Bank, you mentioned that there was this comp plan in place, obviously, that was driving some of the comp that was, you know, made during the quarter. I would think that those comp plans are always being reviewed, is that something that might be looked at in '05?  

JAMIE DIMON: There is a -- it has been reviewed and there is a new comp plan in place for '05.  

BETSY GRASECK: And then just finally on fixed income, it has been a little bit of a source of debate on the Street. You had a very nice uptick Q on Q. You mentioned what some of the drivers were to the equity change Q on Q. Could you go through that for fixed income?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think the best way to look at fixed income is what happened last quarter, not this quarter. Last quarter, I think we thought that customer volumes were low, probably effected most people and a small recovery in that. We had a couple of trades that went against us and we didn't have them this quarter.  

BETSY GRASECK: So elimination of loss.  

JAMIE DIMON: Those 2 things probably were most of the difference here.  

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: We'll go to John McDonald of Banc of America Securities.  

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Jamie, looking for 1.5 billion in cost savings in '05, any thoughts on the timing of the ramp this year?  

JAMIE DIMON: That's a good question. What you are going to see, and again, these are not forecasts. These are kind of levelized people thinking that expenses will be higher at the beginning of the year, lower at the end. There are a couple of things driving that. One is remember a lot of expenses, and this is true for all companies, that you have salaries and benefits. If you have hired people or new incentive plans to go higher, health and welfare benefits is up, pension costs could be up. A lot of costs actually jump pretty quickly. And a lot of the merger save costs come -- ramp -- they get stronger by quarter, so hopefully you'll see some of those costs, non-IC, some of those costs coming down during the course of the year.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Could you comment on which businesses might see cost saves earlier in the year, credit card earlier than some others?  

JAMIE DIMON: I'm not going take you through that because there's a lot of detail, but there is one slide in the back of your book which shows you by business, okay, and obviously these are very rough numbers, but we give them to you because you all ask all the time, but it shows you by business. And then you can take what I said about where we're growing expenses and by business and kind of see what each business might be doing next year.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and in terms of reserve lease, your coverage ratio, is it still good, do you expect you might see some modest relief still in the first half of this year?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that some release in the first, second quarter is probably a good guess, but, you know, we don't really know and it depends on a lot of factors, but obviously that will eventually go away permanently or at least until the end of the next cycle.  

JOHN MCDONALD: And on the mortgage MSR hedging, are you trying to take off the financial hedge that served you well while rates are declining so you can benefit from servicing as rates rise? Is that what you're considering doing?  

JAMIE DIMON: I think, what I'm telling you is that we really spend a lot of time saying what we think we should do, we're still hedging the MSR the way we've hedged it before. I think there -- having looked at the business a little bit, there are reasons, they have what they call a natural hedge you can use. There are different ways to hedge and there are different risks to take. We should also look at that relative to the whole rest of the Company, and so we're going to be doing a little bit more of that.  

JOHN MCDONALD: This quarter's impact, was that taking some of the hedge off what you experienced in losses?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, Mike mentioned the $90 million was rebalancing the AFS portfolio, which is hedge-related.  

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: Any other questions on the phone?  

OPERATOR: There are no other phone questions at this time.  

JAMIE DIMON: Okay. Take one more question and head on.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Kind of a follow-up. You said it was too late for prime brokerage, but you indicated you wanted to build up asset back, mortgage back trading.  

JAMIE DIMON: Too late for equity prime brokerage.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Right.  

JAMIE DIMON: Right.  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm sorry, and energy trading. You know, wouldn't some of the same thinking apply in those areas as well?  

JAMIE DIMON: No. I think --  

UNIDENTIFIED AUDIENCE MEMBER: Why? If you could elaborate.  

JAMIE DIMON: Because we are in asset backs and mortgage backs and we should be strong at it. In fact, if you look at our own issuance, our own capabilities, our own home finance companies, I would go the other way around and say we've got a good reason to be a winner in it and we already have a lot of the capability and capacity here and I think we should just focus on it and figure out where we need to add sales traders, research, et cetera, and we will gain share. Energy is different, it's a little bit new. We do a little bit of it. The question there is should we be in it, how should we be in it, how should we go about it? So we've got some plans to do it and maybe at one point we'll give you some more information on that.  

We appreciate all comments. And we'll talk to you next quarter. Thank you.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050202e11j000b8
  


 HD
 Q3  2004 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,168 words
   PD
20 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
BILL HARRISON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Good morning, everyone, I am Bill Harrison. Welcome to our third quarter earnings analysts meeting. We have, I am told, about 200 people on the phone, we have a small group here at headquarters. So with me are our President, Jamie Dimon; our Vice Chairman, David Coulter; our outgoing CFO, Dina Dublon; and our incoming CFO, Mike Cavanagh.  

First, I would just like to recognize Dina and say a few things about her. She and I go back well over 20 years from our Chemical Bank days, we've been through a lot together. Dina has contributed greatly to this firm and for many years as CFO through many merges, so Dina we thank you for everything you have done. Dina has been very proud of her relationship with the investor/analyst community, I think has done a very good job. So, Dina, we will miss you and thanks for all you have done.  

   TD
I would also like to introduce Mike Cavanagh, Mike as you know is our new CFO. Mike will not be part of the program today, but will pick up at the next analyst meeting. And Mike is somebody that Jamie and I are really comfortable will do a great job here. So, Mike, welcome to you.  

Before I turn the meeting over to Jamie and Dina, just let me make a few comments. First of all operating results for the third quarter were disappointing. Primarily effected by our weak trading performance in fixed income. You will hear much more about that from Jamie and David Coulter, including some management changes we made a little less than 2 weeks ago to deal not only with the poor third quarter performance but some quarters that we haven't been comfortable with, happy with for some period of time in terms of where we think we should be in this business when we look out ahead.  

On the positive front, we had strong results in growth and most of our other core businesses, including retail, including card, Investment Banking, I was very pleased to see our Investment Banking results because it highlights to me the power of an integrated global broad-based platform in that space, and I think we do have a competitive advantage, the results this quarter were good in our Investment Banking area. We had also good results which you will hear in some of our other key businesses.  

On the merger integration front, we continue to make very good progress as you have heard us talk before. We have been through a lot of mergers both Jamie and I and our management teams, we're moving at a faster pace than we have in all the others that I have experienced. There are no big issues left out there. So when I add it all up and look at where we are today from a strategic perspective, in other words, why did we do this merger, and from an integration perspective, I am even more comfortable and confident about where this firm will be in terms of its power, its potential, and its future. So with that, let me turn it over to Dina.  

DINA DUBLON, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Thank you very much, Bill. Thank you for coming in and for tuning in, I guess, the meeting seems there are quite a few of you on the phone. As Bill mentioned, this is the last time for me to participate in the review of results for J.P. Morgan Chase. I have been in this role for over 5 years. This is my 24th quarter as I was counting it yesterday evening. I have learned a lot in the role from my colleagues, from you, investors and from research analysts and I have made lots of friends. I had good times and tough times as you all know. I have grown up some and I find this to be a very grinding role and I am ready to move on.  

Mike Cavanagh, as Bill highlighted, is ready and eager to move in. I have been working very closely with him and enjoying it. He has, I will say to the people listening in, is very capable and dedicated financial staff in the Company and very great coaching from experienced management around him. Whether it is Heidi, Charlie who is here in the room, Jamie, all CFOs at some point in their career. He will do very well for us as shareholders, it is over 50% of my wealth counting every bit of it that is in the Company stock. So with that, good luck to Mike. Thank you very much for your support.  

I will make one more comment generally. The case for owning and buying the stock is not just 1 quarter or for that matter, this quarter as a result, it is about the prospects for creating value in the long term. We are very well positioned for that, both in our competitive position, in our ability to deliver future savings and management's ability overall to execute. So again, thank you for your support.  

I will provide an overview of results and Jamie will follow up with the discussion of lines of business. I am looking for the slide. I apologize. This is the disclaimer obviously. Here I am on the agenda. So Jamie will follow up with a discussion of lines of business, merger update and near-term outlook, as well as the Q&A that will follow. It is a difficult quarter to understand on the basis of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which has combined results in the third quarter compared to historical J.P. Morgan Chase alone. We have provided pro forma results from prior periods restating to include Bank One purchase accounting organizational changes and various accounting conforming entries.  

I will not repeat what Bill has said. This is a disappointing quarter. I will talk to some of the issues up front. The balance sheet, however, I do want to highlight is strong and stronger with litigation reserves, high loss reserves, lower and better rated commercial loans. We have over 30% reduction in large corporate loans in the IB and very strong capital. We have, as Bill mentioned, significant progress on the merger.  

Moving from that to the actual results, reported net income of 1.4 billion or 39 cents a share. Nonoperating charges after tax of 740 million or 21 cents, consisting of merger costs and conforming accounting. On the conforming accounting side, that's the charge of 450 million pretax. We have card reserves on the credit card business were increased by 720 million. A similar increase will take place in the fourth quarter. We have reclassified Bank One's retained interest in securitizations to loans. Other loss reserves of about 400 million. We released about 400 million in other loss reserves. We released it as a nonoperating increase to earnings to conform to the new approach of estimating credit losses.  

Operating income was $2.2 billion or 60 cents comparing it to historical J.P. Morgan Chase at 85 cents and 78 cents in the second and third quarter of last year. A line of business results, still comparing the third quarter combined to historical J.P. Morgan. So just taking 1 line here as an example, the third line, card services, you see doubling of income. This is obviously just the fact that we now show combined results versus J.P. Morgan stand-alone. For the firm, operating results comparing to J.P. Morgan historical show 20% or 30% increase in the bottom line.  

The presentation from here on provides comparisons to pro forma results the prior periods. Same as filed in the 8-K on October 1, and again this morning. For the quarter, we have the same operating results obviously 2.2 billion and 60 cents a share, but now compared to pro forma, earnings are down 23% from the second quarter and 9% from the third quarter. Earnings per share after adjusting for the number of shares and purchase accounting in prior periods, it is also significantly lower. Return on equity was 8% for the quarter and return on equity net of goodwill only 14%. We need to earn in excess of 18% on tangible common to earn 11% on book equity or break even on our cost of equity. The challenge this quarter was the revenue expense equation, as you can see, that is highlighted on the top comparing it let's say to the second quarter, steep revenue decline without offsetting decline in expenses.  

Spending a moment on expenses, I want to first on the top left side of the slide, to establish a base for understanding the expense trend. We reconciled between second quarter '04 combined expenses which is just adding the 2 organizations together and the pro forma second quarter, which is 400 million higher than the combined expenses because of accounting reclassifications and purchase accounting. Expenses in the third quarter at 8.6 billion were actually down 200 million from pro forma expenses in the second quarter. Merger savings and compensation drove the expense -- drove expenses down. The only business with any sequential growth in expenses was credit cards. Driven by acquisition, we have Circuit City, conversion costs, marketing increases, the bottom line of the card business is higher this quarter despite, obviously, the expense increase.  

Expenses were up 680 million from the third quarter last year. And after merger savings of 140 million, up in excess of $800 million. We provide the reasons for it, we explain, but not necessarily justified. Acquisitions like Zurich Life, EFS, Circuit City, contribute over 150 million to expenses as well as revenues. Business growth an additional 100 million. We are incurring higher technology costs and we have software write-downs in the quarter. In part from evaluating functionality and use of systems primarily in investor services. We also have reduced levels of capitalization as more of the work force is integrating rather than developing systems, costs that otherwise would have been capitalized. In total, this contributes over 200 million to increase in expenses.  

Compensation costs are up, 240 million, 2 key drivers amortization of prior year's stock grants, expensing of options and the impact of unifying compensation plans for the Company. Generally, increasing cash and reducing future-year amortizations. Reduced originations in home finance also result in lower FAS 91 deferral of expenses contributing to compensation expenses. Management is very focused on managing expenses. Some of what you see this quarter is temporary in nature, merger savings should be more visible as we progress with the integration.  

I am going to the next slide. This is again a summary schedule showing the contributions of each of the 6 lines of business and the corporate sector to the decline in consolidated operating results. Relative to the third quarter, or the second quarter, you can see the steep reduction in Investment Banking. Jamie will discuss results for each of the lines of business. I want to just for a moment cover the large increase in loss in the corporate sector. The loss in the corporate sector was 219 million, it was over 100 million to 160 million larger loss than prior periods. Lower revenues and higher expenses. What else. Corporate sector includes private equity gains both from J.P. Morgan Partners and OEP, our treasury activities and retained unallocated corporate expenses.  

Private equity gains were 235 million, lower than prior quarters. We have had some large single gains. The portfolio is down to about $8 billion from close to 10 billion a year ago, and will continue to decline. In the second quarter and the third quarter, we would use our investment securities portfolio to restructure the Company's exposure to rising rates. That reduced the NII in corporate by about 250 million for the quarter, creating, to use a Jamie term, earnings in storage. We could add to earnings by increasing the portfolio. Retained expenses of 500 million include the expenses to run private equity and treasury, but mostly technology and other functional support that we consider excessive costs. That increased this quarter because of technology and compensation driving a negative income variance. And with that, Jamie, it is yours.  

JAMIE DIMON, PRESIDENT, COO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Dina, thank you very much. I also want to add my thanks to Dina for her service to this Company. She is a consummate professional, she has been great with me for the 10 months we worked together. And I am talking about for hours and hours each day. She has been great with Mike Cavanagh in this transition period so it's really greatly appreciated. And J.P. Morgan is also sponsoring a dinner for her, most of you have invites for, for one of her favorite causes. And your stock, Dina, is at 50%, we are going to drive that ratio up to 67%.  

DINA DUBLON: I am all for it!  

JAMIE DIMON: That means we have to double the price, folks, if you didn't get that. I am going to give you a review of each line of business and tell you a little bit about the financials in it, a little bit about the view of the business and a little bit about a merger update. I'm going to give you the good and the bad, you will see it all. I'm going to give you a merger update in the non-business related stuff, an outlook for the Company and, obviously ,we will close with Q&A and David Coulter is here and Charlie Sharp is here, so at least 2 of the big businesses are here if you have additional questions.  

Let me start by saying I agree with Bill, the terrible results, we don't feel good about it. But there is some good news. We think the opportunity is great, I hope when you finish looking at these businesses, you will feel the same way. And that the merger itself is going as well as any merger could possibly be going. We are making a lot of good, important, long-term decisions and hopefully you will feel that too. While the earnings are bad, the balance sheet is actually in much better shape, much quicker and we feel very good about that. The disclosures, I think the disclosures seen here, we are required to go GAAP, pro forma, we are making a lot of disclosures to give clarity to the businesses and a feel for the businesses, I think they are fabulous. A lot of financial people here by the way, who have literally worked, and if I said every weekend for the last couple weekends, I probably wouldn't be exaggerating at all.  

DINA DUBLON: For the last 10 months.  

JAMIE DIMON: For the last 10 months, yeah. I hope you agree with us and they will get better over time, but I think they are really magnificent.  

I am on page 11 for those of you on the phone. Some have covered the Investment Bank in a little bit of detail, that repeating a lot of what people said. Fixed income, obviously the big disappointment, it was worse in the Street, not worse than everybody. If I was roughly going to give you a feel, it's about a third mix. We are not large in commodities. Energy, about a third client volume flow, the way we mea sure it. We think that that was probably common to the Street or at least by our own read of it. And a third of it was our own trading positions, I'm not going to go into them, but we were obviously on the wrong side of a few of the markets.  

As Bill said, Investment Banking fees very strong. And you look down below, number 1, syndicated loans, number 2 global announced M&A, if you back out Bank One as number 5, number 3 global debt and equity, it is a powerful banking franchise which we will grow over time. To go -- and the revenue lines we are showing by markets, so it's the fixed income business, the equity business, equity had a very good quarter and we hope to continue to grow and build that business. There is a line there called "credit portfolio" that is the return on the loans, NII and most of the loans, not all of them, and the way we hedge and managed other credit exposures so there is trading in there, but it's basically credit derivatives on both sides. That number by the way is down substantially.  

I think there is good news and there's bad news there. The good news is loans are down from 66 billion to 46. Loans are a little bit of a lost leader in this business. If you look at Bank One, J.P. Morgan combined from a couple of years ago is probably down 60%. I didn't go check. So obviously we want to get paid on these loans. The other great news, nonperformers are down and this is a great number, from a year ago 3.6 billion to 1 billion. Loan loss reserves are a very strong 4.8%, remember in the large core of business, these are -- well they are not always risky, they are large lumpy losses and $20 billion of equity, a obviously sub-part 12% return which could easily average 20% is where I would put it at a minimum. And obviously we want to get there.  

I would caution you when you do your models for the future, take the credit line, we will return to normal costs, you can calculate your own numbers, I will put it in 60 or 70 basis points, probably something under $100 million a quarter. From the positive numbers you have been seeing quarter-after-quarter from both prior Bank One and J.P. Morgan and the combined.  

Couple of other quick points here. There have been changes in management, Bill mentioned it. And obviously we get a lot of calls and a lot of rumors out there. Most of all those things that happened here had nothing to do with me. VAR is down, that wasn't because we were driving it down. I would tell you we have a very powerful franchise. Most of the decisions being made were basically being made before I was deeply involved. VAR is down, it had nothing to do with me. I think taking trading risk is fine as long as you get paid. That is the issue here. We are going to build this business relentlessly. We believe in it. We have a great global platform and we will keep on growing it. And I am sure there are additional questions and Dave Coulter will be here to help answer them when we get there.  

Page 12, retail business, this is the consolidated retail business. On page 13, I will give you detail on branches and then on home finance. This is consolidated. I just want to say we show a 25% return, obviously it is higher like the branch business and we haven't given you this detail, closer to the 34, 40% and so we are going to start bringing out some more detail in the future. On the bottom, there are 2 kind of the smaller businesses, I want to talk about this real quick. Insurance, remember, this is our Bank One purchased Zurich Life Insurance, it will make about $100 million a year, we purchased it for $500 million. Very comfortable with it.  

Auto business, $53 billion of auto loans, and we've made a few strategic changes in education to in effect do more of it ourselves and retain more of the profits. That should stay in auto and education there. The loan business itself is very tough right now and the margins are very low, so you should expect -- well, we're up 5% year-over-year, you should expect it will probably be down in the future. Auto leases are down 24%. That is a blessing, it is a terrible business. We will do some, but we are going to be very careful on what we do there.  

If you go to the next page, the branch business, the consumer business, you know, I think this is a great story and, you know, if you look at the details and the facts, the growth in this business has been pretty much as good as the best people out there. So we've had -- and we're continuing to invest. We have had 566,000 new accounts this year. Pretty much the same run rate this quarter. Average loans are up, small business loans are up 4%, we've opened up 100 -- 97 branches this year. We have plans in place to open more. It is not irrational response to competitors. We have the people, the real estate, we can acquire it, we can buy it, we can build it and we are reducing the time to profitability. Core deposit of 9% year-over-year, they're flat quarter-over-quarter. A little of that, believe it or not we had some money called the hot money hedge funds buying into some of our deposit accounts, we've pushed out about $2 billion. We are not going to run the business that way.  

We have been investing in personal bankers, up 442. We continue drive efficiency, if you look at some of the numbers, a lot of the excess cost is going out and paying for the growth. We still will start the rebranding sometime next year, we will give you a more detailed scheduled when we have it. Obviously, it is expensive, a lot of it's, not all, but some of it is in the merger cost. We are doing a better job in cross selling. We have Chase's first mortgage products, which are going to be put into all of our branches. The opportunities are very good. We have made a lot of change here. Chase branches in New York, the work week went from 35 hours to 40 hours. We've extended the store branches by 2 hours, and we have changed how we are going to do compensation with much more specific sales base as opposed to against goal versus budget. It's a big change for a field. Obviously, there will be some pluses and minuses to that that we did it all at once. We just wanted to get to where we were going.  

Small business, we are great in small business. About a third of the profits and we don't break out profits for you yet coming out of the small business segment. We expect continued good news coming out of the branch business. Home finance, I am not going to spend a lot of time on. One of the new disclosures you have here, page 14, is we broke out prime production and servicing. The production of mortgages, not home equity, production of mortgages and the services of those mortgages, the interesting thing I think if you note, and we do give you pro forma data going back, earned 100 million this quarter. 237 million was earned by the consumer lending business. That's 63 -- 66 billion home equity loans, up 21% year-over-year. Owing up a couple percents sequentially. Both companies are doing a good job of growing that business, we intend to grow it. We also retained arms et cetera there. We think it as great product. We want to learn to get getter at managing some of this business and, obviously, the prime business is going to be a lot more volatile, [inaudible] in the MSR, which I think we have done a good job managing, but it is a volatile asset and the flows evolve until you can see that prime production origination is down substantially year-over-year and that will go up or down depending on the interest rates.  

Couple of things and we will be giving more detail in the future. More profitability by the channels. There's a lot more we can do to grow and understand this business. Couple of key other points. We did stop originating mortgage finance, I mean, manufactured housing. I will talk about that in a minute. We stopped selling subprime loans, I think we have about 13 billion in subprime loans. We stopped selling it and we are taking gains of about 50 million a quarter. So it's a deliberate action, we no longer have gains at 50 million a quarter. This is the first quarter you are starting to see some of that. We think it will just grow profits over time, it is far more economic than selling for profit.  

And the car business is also a good story. Revenues are up year-to-year. Margins were up 19 basis points, they're down 27 sequentially. We are already applying the knowledge of Chase to the Bank One portfolio and the knowledge of Bank One to the Chase portfolio. Credit quality was excellent, 488, down substantially. We don't really expect to stay down at 488, we expect it to bump up a little bit. The reduction was mostly driven by lower bankruptcies. Our return on outstandings is 2.05%. That is sub par. It should be 3% or more. Hopefully you will see sequential improvements next year as we get -- and some of it is going to come from cost saves over time. This is a powerful business, $130 billion of average and managed loans up 4% up 3% sequentially. Not bad relative to the industry, not great. Charge volume of 12%, and it is 4% sequentially. That is good, very good numbers. Remember, spend drives a lot of the results and we can put a lot of money into our spend. With Continental miles, United miles, a lot of cards issued, 96 million cards issued, up 11%, though it's flat sequentially.  

We did not break out any detail on merchant processing, we are very large in it. It is a great business, we will give you more on that next time. Higher marketing expenses, by the way, that was completely deliberate as we run a better business, we find more opportunities in how to make money in cards. So there's 75 million of the increase in expense was higher marketing. On the merger side, we did convert. I forgot the date now, but 10 million credit card from FDR to TSS in the same day. We started to print 10 million statements a month out of Ohio. Bill Harrison and I took a visit to a very impressive printing plant, which sometime late next year we will be doing 100 million statements a month and we think we will do them very cost effectively. The next part of TSS, Bank One's remaining part, 40 million cards will be done in a couple of weeks and they are already in all the test modes of that and we feel pretty good about that. So we expect good ongoing results from the card business.  

Commercial banking, another, I think another very strong business. We don't give you a lot of detail here. Returns at 25%. The only caution I give you on that is a little bit driven by extraordinary low credit costs. You would expect standardized credit costs not to be 14 but maybe 50 or 60 million a quarter. Through a cycle, that's your job to estimate when that cycle will happen. We feel good about the business. Very strong balance sheet. Also $50 billion in loans, we have had some modest growth, for the first time in the last couple quarters, which is nice to see, but $65 billion of deposits and the number which I find very surprising is that 500 -- 499 million of TSS revenue in this business. Some of that revenue shows up on NII because it is deposit based, but $500 million of the 833 is TSS, it's not loan driven. So I think we can build a very profitable business. We also think there are $100 million of revenues, and maybe next time we'll give you some more details. And we actually went through kind of name by name. Investment Banking gross revenues driven out of this business and we are just getting going. And I think that could be a major competitive advantage both for the commercial bank and for the Investment Bank and hopefully you will see some of that more in the future.  

If you go to page 17, Treasury Services, $96 million in earnings down 29 million. We are very large and very good in this business. Little over 8 trillion of assets under custody. $139 billion deposits, up 20%. That's a measure of the treasury management services. And also provides enormous liquidity for this Company. So when I show you the balance sheet in this stack and I talk about it, keep in mind the amount of deposits, real deposits this Company has to help fund itself. And we haven't broken any trade or commercial card revenue here, but we think that it is driving some of the year-over-year increase, we'll probably give you more detail in the future. Dina did mention that there were $85 million of software writeoffs and impairments relating to how we analyze each line of business and decision we made here, we don't really expect that to be recurring. So Treasury should do a little bit better going forward.  

Asset and Wealth Management, another great -- oh, Treasury is managed, by the way when we broke out for you, which I think is important, is that the overhead ratio is 86%, the margin is 14. It should be a lot more than that. We will tell you more about that down the road and we hope to get there.  

Asset and Wealth Management pretax margin in my opinion should also be higher, actually James Staley is here too, so the questions for that you can feel free to ask of him. This is our private bank, institutional money management, it's the retail network private client services, 735 billion of assets under management, up 5% year-over-year, down 2% sequentially. It's bud in the private bank, private client $25 million in loans, up 12%, 39 billion in deposits, up 23%. So I think we will build this business very strong over time.  

One quick update, Highbridge. We did announce we are going to be acquiring a majority stake in Highbridge. Just give you 3 good reasons why we think it's a good thing to do. Number 1, top quality people. Ask anybody. And I think that is critical. Number 2, they built it just the way I think, if you were going to build a hedge fund business for a bank, you build it. Multiple funds, you are not really beholding to any manager, different strategies, with really intelligent asset allocation, so if we were going to do it, and we do do some, we would have done it exactly this way. And the third is, its worked, the financial side has worked where they have to do well to do well, and if they don't do well we won't pay as much. We think it is the right thing for both parties that we are in this thing together.  

Let me give you some detail on page 19 on merger cost. Remember the merger costs are the lines that we do break out, not in operating earnings. We said it would be about 4 billion, that is probably one of the roughest numbers we are still giving you. And we said about 3 billion will go to the income statement, about 1 billion will be purchase gap. We still think that's true. That could change. And we gave you the timing down here, we have always said it's going to be lumpy, the only difference from last time is a little bit more got pushed out. And it really just depends on when we actually close facilities and put real estate on the market, et cetera. So pretty much what we told you.  

Merger saves, page 20, about -- we said 3 billion. It is about the same, we said, what I was really focused on is the 2.2 billion run rate at the end of next year, about the same. we said -- what we have said $500 million in '04, it's a little bit less than that, it is 400. And where we are trying to get here, I am not going to spend a lot of time on this slide because it is a little noisy, is that we think some of you in your models double count when we say we are going to do this much in this year and that much in that year. So we're talking about run rates, and Ann is here and the Investor Relations team to make sure you don't double count those numbers. In the full-year '05, the total saves of 1.875 billion, incremental over -- but not incremental over last year. So what drives some of these things and we think we are already making all the decisions that will be driving it, in real estate, benefits, head count, consolidation of operating centers, so we are actually doing a lot the actions that you will see the results in the future. And when we finish budgets, we will be able to give you much more detail kind of by area and the head count.  

Remember head count, for example, in fact if you go to the next page, page 21, I am sorry -- head count is down 5,000 from the end of the year. That's good. That shows we are making a lot of progress. We haven't done it because we moved a lot of staff around. We can give you more detail next time. But the head count, the 12,000 is still there. When we do the budgets we will probably break out where we are adding, we are adding I think far more than 1,000 in branches. We'll gain a little bit in the Investment Bank. We'll be adding 4,000 and taking back the outsourcing from IBM and we will be saving the 12,000, so you contract and we will try to give you some more information.  

We have these conforming accounting adjustments and these are requirements to put the Company on common accountings. We didn't do things exactly the same. We told you, this is probably my conservatism, 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion all this year. We now think that number will be 1.2 billion. We told you the card decertification would be 1.4 billion. Remember that ends up in loan loss reserves. We were required to split it into 2 quarters, that was not our desire, I would have done it all at once, but that is GAAP accounting. We had some other benefits on other low loss allowances, so we now think the new estimate is 1.2 billion and that's probably a firmer estimate than the 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion. I also spoke about last time potential policy and business decisions that could also drive additional losses of 200 to 400. We now would say the number is 0 to 200, again, it is my conservatism. I will tell you in a minute where I think why that might be the case. It might be zero at this point.  

Next page is also for your models, and the only point we are making here is that there was amortization of intangibles already in both J.P. Morgan and Bank One before the deal. The deal added incremental amortization. We look at your models and try to see what some people are doing. And we think some people doubled up. Some people didn't catch the first one. We try to isolate it by line of business to help you do it so you get exactly the amortization as both from the deal and what existed before. If you have questions of this, Ann will be here to help you take you through some of the accounting side.  

The balance sheet is in very good shape, 8.5% Tier 1. Very strong credit reserve, 2.7% -- 6% wholesale loan, 1.62 consumer loan. We conform methodologies. We did it in a very diligent, detailed, reasonable, rational way so we feel pretty good about how we do it. We have a substantial litigation reserves. Again, I look at quality of capital, not just whether you have capital. What I will say about litigation reserves, adequate and sufficient. We will make required disclosures if we have to about material changes, material lawsuits, et cetera. But other than that we are not going to be disclosing a number that we think is confidential competitive information.  

The Board did authorize a $6 million stock buy back. You can see we were not aggressive this quarter. Part of that was to give ourselves more comfort and building up our capital and getting the balance sheet to where we want it to be. We do have the capital flexibility now. It is very strong, so when you run your miles, there will be plenty of cash flow capability either to buy back stock, which we'll do opportunistically or invest in our businesses, et cetera. I also meant to say on the cost saves, the 3 billion is still a good number. We were making a lot of battlefield decisions to -- where we're going to make investments in data centers et cetera, and we don't want you double counting the cost saves. The 3 billion we really expect to get, but we have to make investments, we have a bunch of stuff. So I wouldn't be more aggressive than that if I were you.  

Private equity as a percent of capital is down 12.5%, and the way we measure it is good will -- equity minus good will. So it's going to get down eventually to a $6.5 billion number from the current number of 8.5. The balance sheet is very liquid. We have extensively went through capital reserves, risk process. We are going to take one more crack at it in budgets, so we really believe in it. But I think the fact that we [inaudible] you should feel pretty good about.  

We have done extensive earnings and risk reporting, conforming how both companies are doing it, in retail and credit card and obviously across the Company, we are fairly neutral to interest rates today. It did cost us money to deleverage and to reposition. So some of the NII reduction as we're make those decisions. And again, as Dina said, it is a little of the earnings in store, we can add back the 30 billion in Treasury investments tomorrow or today if we wanted to, but we think the balance sheet is in good shape. While the earnings are lower, it drives higher quality earnings. We have taken some business decisions and put this on the balance sheet page because I think as an outside shareholder we get asked the questions, is it going make a lot of change in the businesses? Well, they're not material. And we have done a lot of business views and you know, well, we made some announcements to stop originating mortgage housing.  

Auto leasing, that's the one place I do worry about on that business policy about. It is a tough business and we think we are add quality reserved but we are looking at that every month. We love the small business. We should have rephrased the certain small businesses. We love the small business. We got out of financing, check cashers and money remitters, and we did take, I think it was an additional charge of $15 million, and we're reducing selling some of the third party private equity funds, all this has strengthened our balance sheet for the future.  

Merger milestones. I think that you've seen a lot of them in this number 1, the financial reporting. I do think it is important how to report the numbers, track the numbers, book the numbers, both the disclosures internally, expense allocation and we've done most of that and it's leading to actually much better business views and obviously stronger budgeting. The holding company merge, I talked about the TSS conversion, we've merged the broker dealers, we've made the outsourcing decision. It is important we made it quick so we can start building for the future. The card bank merger took place already.  

We've made a lot of HR decisions. And the HR decisions are critical because they kind of put us on a common framework. Both companies actually had this 75% stock ownership by the executive committee, which we think is good. We've conformed all of our health and welfare benefits. It is hard to do, the firms were different, we were rational, we were economic, we were efficient. There will be some benefits to that. That starts next year. We conformed some of our comp tables. We had different stock equity tables and we have 1 table for the whole Company. I think it is critical for the Company that I think it's a very good thing we have 1 table. People will start taking 10% of their bonus if it's 50,000 or more and restrict the stock and that goes up to 35% if it's over $750,000, so we feel pretty good about this. We didn't eliminate options, but we are not going to use it. We will be much more rigorous in how and when and why we use them. So you will see -- probably hear a little bit more about that in the future.  

The big events you should -- and we made the branding decision. We should have put that on there, because from the vantage point of shareholders and analysts that decision is the type of thing that if it goes on too long you may know that it is causing problems in the Company. I am on page 26, big milestones, mid-November, we will be merging the large J.P. Morgan state chartered New York Bank with the large Bank One OCC Chart Ohio Bank. It's a big deal, it takes a lot of work and we hope to get it done in November. Brand new change will be next year, but we are actually starting to put them -- make the decision today.  

I have mentioned the card conversion. We, the strategic data center, obviously, Bank One has just built 2 massive ones in Wilmington, which I recently was at. We will build what we need to have the best systems in operations of any financial services company in the world. And that includes we may need another one in Europe. The 2 big conversions, the 2 really big ones would be the Texas conversion. Think of it as very much, what we did in Michigan and Illinois. Bank One is kind of big bang. Doesn't mean it all happens in one day. Because a lot of things happen right prior to the conversions, but we are tentatively, tentatively scheduling that for late in the third quarter of '05 and we are tentatively scheduling the tri-state one for something like 9 months after that. Those will be the big 2 that we are working on.  

Let me just give you a view of the outlook looking forward a little bit and then we'll open the floor to questions and comments. Trading, we remain cautious, extremely cautious about trading. Obviously, we have some visibility to that. And it bounces all over the place. I am going to move to the next quarter. Not about next year. I think next year you all should have your own view of how the economy and the trade markets will be doing. The investment pipeline remains strong. Obviously, it is also driven by the market, but we have some visibility of that for the next couple of months.  

Private equity, we now have $8 billion invested in private equity. If I were you, I would be thinking about a number of 300 million a quarter, it's very lumpy. Our visibility of that is on a very short run. You deserve a better return than that. But we are conservative. We can always take always take bond loss, we can always do other things, because it is very efficient to take bond losses and tax loss when you have tax gains, so some of your models are different. So it is hard for us to always describe, but we kind of look at this a little bit differently. That through the quarter gross, we also have 300 million a year of expenses. So, it is even kind of worse and we're going to try to make that a more efficient business like all the other businesses.  

Consumer small business. I think we expect kind of a continued story of decent growth and continued investment. Home finance, continued moderation, particularly in production of prime mortgages, from lower refis and obviously, rates go up, they will go down. Auto I already mentioned. It's tough, spreads are very and leases will be coming down. Volumes will probably be coming down because spreads are so tight. Card, we expect kind of modest continued growth and seasonal -- remember it's seasonal business, fourth quarter is seasonally strong. Credit trends, retail stable, cards flat. We probably expect a little bit higher next quarter, but we are not predicting any major improvement of trends. Wholesale eventually will return normal credit cost and we think that should be your timing. We don't know when it is going to happen, but you know it's going to happen over time, so next quarter expect positive credit results still, some time you should see that diminish.  

So the bottom line is, while we had some terrible earnings results, we feel very good about the merger progress, the balance sheet and the future opportunities of the Company and we will work relentlessly to make it all pay off for all of our shareholders and employees. So I will stop there and open the floor to questions or comments. And Ron? Ron? I am sorry. Are you guys doing the phones from over there.  

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions).  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: [Audio difficulties] candor and I think given the changes in CFOs at a number of leading banks that are coincidentally going on simultaneously, she set a bar very high that we hope in the investment community that others will be able to live up to. So thank you very much. And, Jamie, you have been quoted in the press recently talking about going beyond this deal to possibly looking forward to other mergers. I guess I have a couple of questions in that regard.  

JAMIE DIMON: Don't even ask it. I am going to tell you. Bloomberg follows you around, I have a reporter who covers 2 companies. They have nothing much to do except to write gossip columns all day long. Bill and were in Chicago, we were doing a conference for 1,500 business people there, and I mentioned -- Bill was talking about how important execution is and that's what we are going to focus on, and I was kind of making a joke that we said we were going to do that, though we recently started talk about more acquisitions. And it got printed like that was a serious statement, that was not. We will do small ones that make sense to the Company, don't effect the major stuff.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: So you have no thoughts about bigger deals in the near.  

JAMIE DIMON: No, we are completely deployed right now.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: How long do you think you will stay completely deployed before you can look at something beyond that.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think as we are making more accomplishments and we know we are doing and get some of these convergence behind us. The heard of the bar will come down over time. The exceptions would be something like a Highbridge, and there are a couple of small ones that are really neat fill-in ones that don't stop us from finishing the conversions, improving the results at card or improving the results at retail, et cetera. So we are not going to take our eye off the ball.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: What is your broader view of how the wonderful platform that you are creating fits into the broader consolidation of financial services in the U.S. and around the world?  

JAMIE DIMON: You know, Bill may want to add something to this. We are focused now in execution. There will be continued consolidation around the world. It's been going on for 20 years in investment banking, brokerage banks. It has become transborder in a lot of businesses, not all businesses. I'm not saying all of them would be rational. The winners will be the people both who have the strategy and the vision and execute well. And right now we are kind of in the execution mode.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks.  

JAMIE DIMON: Mike Mayo?  

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Yeah, I asked last quarter, what do you think about the risk profiles of the Company. Last quarter you said it seems fine now, but you are deleveraging and that hurt a little bit, you reduced value at risk and that hurt a little bit, you're not doing auto leases as much and that hurt a little bit. So where so you stand now with 3 more months looking at the firm. What do you think the risk profile and if you could address derivatives in conjunction with that.  

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, I think you have to separate trading decisions and changes in the market to react to. You know, the auto lease business, we don't think it is a great business. Auto loans have been very tough and margins are squeezed and I think it's a perfectly rational thing when margins are very squeezed you don't write as much. The train decisions were not mine. We have good controls and good processes. We have a great team. Start with Dave Coulter, Bill Winters and Steve Black who make those decisions on the day-to-day basis. That is what drives the VAR, it was no one telling them from the top, take VAR down. It was their own view of the world and their positions and client flows, et cetera and --  

MIKE MAYO: [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible].  

JAMIE DIMON: It is 89 today. It was 103 last quarter so it probably was the peak. Including our 89, by the way is, we do include the VAR on the credit portion of derivatives, and the VAR on the 30 billion of stuff we do to hedge the loan portfolio. So I am not sure it is totally comparable to everybody else. I know trading is a risky business, but it is a function of good people, good controls, good ideas, good client, good flow. I put it in the same category as everything else.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thanks. I don't want to beat a dead horse. You talked about the fact that the change of the VAR sort of came from the bottom and up everything. That being said, is there a case to be made that there was an attempt in the trading businesses to take advantage of the transitional nature of the timing here to scrutinize carrying values of position, take them to more conservative levels and that maybe there is something there.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think that would be a gross error for anyone to think that the trading numbers had anything to do with something like that. I think we had bad trading and lower client volumes. Had nothing to do with anything else.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: And the repositioning that you talked about at the corporate level in order to become more interest rate neutral, there is no chance that that might have bled into the investment bank results as well.  

JAMIE DIMON: Absolutely not. They were completely unrelated decisions. I'm not sure the investment bank even knew about the other $30 billion we reduced the portfolio by. They are made by different people for different reasons.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: Anything to add to that?  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: David? Go ahead. You got the microphone already, go ahead.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Thank you. 3 questions. Dina referred to excessive costs in corporate. They clearly went up a lot. Are those going to be managed, do you have a target for getting those down? 2, can you amplify on the creating earnings and storage along with the balance sheet restructuring, I didn't quite get that. And then third, you were talking about on page 13, the great Brent story and you said we will build it and buy it and it goes along to Ron's question. Can you amplify on that.  

JAMIE DIMON: If I said build and buy it, I should have just said build it. If they have a branch network they wanted to buy somewhere, I wouldn't be opposed to that depending on what it was and where it was. On corporate expense, there are several pieces there, the performance of the private equity business, there is the Treasury managed kind of NII-related type of stuff and there's retained corporate expense and other things that go through corporate, and it is going to be lumpy for awhile. And it is the same lumpiness of what I talked about the deal the merger et cetera, yes, we expect to drive it down. We are in the middle of budgets now so it is hard for me to tell you next quarter, but I think last time we said it would be a $2 billion expense number, which will be driven down over time. It is already in the 3 billion of expense drive down, don't double count it. And your other question was earnings in store. Earnings in store to me, if you reduce the size of your balance sheet by $100 billion and obviously it drives up Tier 1 capital, in our case $100 billion which could drive it up 10%. If you do that you are going to lose a lot of earnings, you haven't lost the earnings, you can add back the portfolio, so leverage to me is a 2-way street and when people use leverage, they should understand that. We could take our Tier 1 down to 7.5, add 50 or $75 billion of portfolio and have a lot more NII. It may be the wrong thing to do for the future of the Company. That's what I mean by that. David?  

DAVID, ANALYST: Jamie, you talked about some management changes in the Investment Bank.  

JAMIE DIMON: I would put interest rate exposure in the same category. One is just the size of the balance sheet, the other one is how you finance the balance sheet. You can short fund part of it which we haven't and easily say why don't you do X, Y or Z and create this much more earnings and you could do that number, all other things being equal, in your head. Swap from the 10 year to LIBOR. Do $20 billion and you're going to make an extra so much money.  

DAVID: You talked about some management changes at the investment bank and how that might relate to trading results in the future. Can you draw a little clearer map?  

JAMIE DIMON: No, I think Bill said that some of the management changes related to some the things going on over the last several months and Dave can amplify on that. I don't think it had anything to do with the future per se.  

BILL HARRISON: Let me add a little bit of color. We don't like the trading results this quarter for sure. That is no surprise. We didn't like them in the second quarter either relatively. So we around the end of the year, actually prodded by a few of you who said you guys aren't doing well enough. Stepped back and said how are we doing, are we gaining shares sort of product by product. And I guess I would characterize our results is about average over the last 3 or 4 quarters relatively. We think we should be average so Steve Black, Bill Winters spent a lot of time product by product, and concluded we needed to do something about it. We made a change recently and in North America, that some of you may not have paid enough attention to, but we took Patrick Esquire [ph], best risk taker we have on a global basis, had been running the proprietary business for us and made him responsible for all trading in the Americas. We took the origination functions in equity capital markets and debt capital markets and combined those under Carlos Hernandez. That is a big change. Couple senior people we had as a result of that decided to do something else. And so, we have restructured the fixed income side in North America. I am not going to predict earnings for you going forward, but we think we have the right people in the right places. And we did, I think face up to the reality of, we are big. We generate a lot of money from that, but we think we should be doing better and this is an attempt to try and do so and we'll have to see how it works.  

JAMIE DIMON: One more here and go to the phone. Go ahead.  

RYAN O'CONNELL, ANALYST: Thanks. Ryan O'Connell. David, just to follow up on that. As a result of the expense of the last several quarters, have you reconsidered the role of proprietary trading? I guess what I'm asking is, do you intend to do it better or are you thinking of reducing the scale of proprietary trading?  

DAVID COULTER, VICE CHAIRMAN, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Well, it's a question you always ask, because we like the client flow business and we talked about that in the past. Client flow in the third quarter was probably off a couple hundred million dollars for us. I would go with Jamie's characterization of about a third client flow, about a third that were not big in commodities and oil trading, and about a third proprietary trading, just not performing like we would like to see it. We do ask ourselves, are we putting enough resources on the client flow side, because that's been the growth model and I think will be the growth model going forward. If we did anything on the proprietary side, if I tell you today and you guys should all spend time with Steve Black and Bill Winters going forward, but if I told you today, we are probably looking at it realistically, we probably had a little bit of mandate creep, we probably had proprietary trading activities growing up or sort of mushrooming in a few places where we should have consolidated them. So a little more emphasis client flow, but we are in the risk taking business too.  

RYAN O'CONNELL: All right. When you talk about the proprietary trading, you are not talking about the pure proprietary trading, it is more of the risk taking associated with client trading is where the problem was. It wasn't the firm getting its own money on positions of like. Right? For the most part.  

JAMIE DIMON: Let me go ahead to the phone.  

OPERATOR: Our first question is coming from Andy Collins from Piper Jaffray.  

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: I hate to beat a dead horse on the Investment Bank. But incentive comp, I was wondering how that changes going forward and the expense structure, you know, variable versus fixed?  

JAMIE DIMON: I would just say the incentive was reduced somewhat proportionally according to the incentive comp plans that were in place which were based on performance. And some of that ran through the numbers and I forget the exact number on the expense side. Yes, compensation is down 180 million and mostly based upon kind of prior worked out budget comp plans.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. One other unrelated question on credit. Talked about mid 70's net charge-off ratio next year. I think you were high 80s this quarter.  

JAMIE DIMON: It will return in the large corporate, it will return to a normal basis which, you know, you could say is in the 60 or 70. You could do -- over time. That's not our estimate for next year. I'm saying that's normal to a cycle 70 or 80. So we look at the business, we should be earning good returns with that normal. Sometimes it will be lower and sometimes it will be higher.  

ANDY COLLINS: And the provisions covering that charge-off?  

JAMIE DIMON: We don't expect that to go up to that next quarter or even the first or second quarter next year.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay.  

JAMIE DIMON: But it could.  

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. And provisions will match net charge-offs more likely?  

JAMIE DIMON: You are talking about, which one are you talking about?  

ANDY COLLINS: Overall for the corporate.  

JAMIE DIMON: Are you talking about '05?  

ANDY COLLINS: Yes.  

JAMIE DIMON: We don't know yet. We are doing our own budgets and forecasting right now. We do expect the net will go up over time.  

ANDY COLLINS: Great. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Frank? You have more on the phone? Go ahead, Frank.  

FRANK, ANALYST: Just a question you had mentioned 20% return is what you thought should be the minimum in the Investment Bank over a cycle or over time. Given the increase in capital allocated to the Investment Bank, the question is how does that 20% come about? Is it through a substantial reduction in the capital allocated which means basically I think taking down the risk of the Investment Bank or does it come through improved efficiency or just having to get greater market share of whatever business is out there?  

JAMIE DIMON: I don't want to be remiss. If Bill Winters were here he would tell you the risk capital is not 20 billion it's a lot less. And we're going through that, we want to understand what we really believe the risk is in credit and market, operational, et cetera. And so that's kind of our work to fine tune it and make sure we are right. I think the 20 comes from flow, expenses. I think we can improve our margin just on the expense side. So they will get additional expense benefit as we run a more efficient Company and get some of these merger saves in there. Some of that will flow into their margin right off the bat. Other than that I think it is just executing on the strategy.  

ANDY COLLINS: [Inaudible question - microphone inaccessible]  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, then if you look at the pro formas, the Investment Bank did earn $1 billion a quarter. Several quarters of the last six or seven. Why don't you go to the phone. There are more questions on the phone.  

OPERATOR: Our next question Eric Caddle of Hovedi Capital.  

ERIC CADDLE, ANALYST, HOVEDI CAPITAL: Can you hear me?  

JAMIE DIMON: Yes.  

ERIC CADDLE: Just wanted to follow up with a question on the Highbridge deal and maybe kind of related to your earlier comments on capital management. I think somebody had said that James Staley was there and maybe this is for him. But how did you think about in structuring that deal an outright acquisition of the stake in the Company versus some kind of distribution relationship or a joint venture that would have been less capital intensive but still would have gotten access to the great people, the diversified strategy, et cetera. You talked about your interest in buying back more stock, et cetera. How did you think about that with just as it related to the capital allocated?  

JAMIE DIMON: Remember, it is a 2-way street. There are 2 parties in here, so whatever you work out both have to agree to. Both parties felt it was important, both for the customers and for J.P. Morgan that the partners who built the place have a long term stake in staying and making it work and in growing the results. And so, having an earn out is the best way to do that over time. You know, if it was a pure cash out and they were leaving, we probably wouldn't have been interested and nor were they. They were interested in building a great institution, having institutionalized it, being proud of what they leave behind and who they merge it with.  

ERIC CADDLE: I guess I am asking more about not necessarily an earn out versus a cash out front. But some kind of relationship where you could have been the exclusive, you know, distributor of Highbridge funds or something like that and just sort of thinking about that versus, you know, owning a big stake in the fund.  

JAMIE DIMON: Well, I think -- go ahead.  

BILL HARRISON: It is part of an overall strategy to March with our client in the return space. We have a lot of alternatives, asset classes within J.P. Morgan asset management and we wanted to control our own destiny there. So simply having a distribution agreement, it didn't fit with the longer-term strategic goal of being a major player in the absolute return space.  

ERIC CADDLE: Thanks. That's helpful.  

OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Don Jones of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

DON JONES, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, thank you. I was curious about the provisions as they rose, it seems that the only jump in loan loss allowances made at the Investment Bank up to 1.8 billion from 740 million last quarter, what was that motivation from? It looks as though charge offs were down and compared assets were also lower.  

JAMIE DIMON: There's 2 things, number 1 is I think you are looking at the GAAP number from last quarter versus the actual number from this quarter. You have to go to the pro forma number last quarter which is probably 1.72 billion or there abouts, which includes Bank One's loan loss reserves. You are comparing apples to oranges a little bit and what we did on the corporate side, is that we looked at how both companies do it, which by the way is remarkably similar and expected losses, stress testing, how you look at potential for downgrade, industries you are particularly worried about and we put together what we thought was the best way to do it and then both companies want the best way in effect and that's the number you see today. So we were just trying to have what we thought was a great proper reserving for wholesale loans. That's the methodology, and it was very similar through both companies.  

DON JONES: Great. Second question, what airline exposures remain on the books that might be of concern to J.P. Morgan?  

JAMIE DIMON: I may misstate this. I don't think that they are material. You know, yes, there may be $100 million or something like that, Bank One has a little bit too. I think our biggest exposure to the airline industry is related to the credit card relation of United Airlines. Which is doing fine and we're growing it. But obviously, we have a stake in United Airlines staying and operating a healthy company.  

DON JONES: Okay. Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: We will take one more question from the field. There's one left here, we will take it from the room.  

OPERATOR: Final question from the phone lines is coming from David Stumpf of A.G. Edwards.  

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning. I hate to ask about the rumor of the day, but yesterday obviously there was a lot of talk on the Street about Elliott Spritzer possibly targeting the derivative business. Jamie, any comment on that at all.  

JAMIE DIMON: Listen, I heard the rumor today too and it always reminds me of how these rumors travel in Wall Street so quick, it is unbelievable. Here is the important thing. I don't know what Elliott Spritzer is doing, so I couldn't possibly answer that question. I think it is incumbent upon everybody at every firm with any business to make sure you are doing this proper. Now you have got the procedures in place, you treat your customers properly, you're making transparent full disclosures, so I think it is just the norm of doing business. Someone finds there is wrongdoing in derivatives. I hope it is not us. But, obviously, a company should fix what they are doing wrong. So we are not, we heard the same rumors you heard, but we don't know about their legitimacy at all.  

DAVID STUMPF: Thank you.  

JAMIE DIMON: Any other questions from the room? Okay. One last one.  

UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Something in the home finance side. Obviously the origination results and everything held up very, very well in the quarter. I was wondering if you could give us some sense of what the pipeline is looking like and how that business is doing.  

JAMIE DIMON: I think you've got to separate origination between home equity and home equity lines, which has been great and growing in both companies, and prime origination which is down, I think 50% and very volatile. In fact if you go to the statistical supplement you can see some of that. We show origination by channel. You can see some of that I believe. Did I answer that question? Yes. We appreciate you all coming today and hopefully we will give you better results in the future. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041103e0ak000m9
  


 HD
 Q1  2004 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
16,008 words
   PD
21 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.   

   LP
OPERATOR: This presentation contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those as set forth in the forward-looking statements.   

   TD
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule; the failure of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One stockholders to approve the merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that excess capital is not generated in the merger as anticipated or not utilized in an accretive manner; and the risk that disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with our clients, employees, or suppliers.   

Additional risks and uncertainties are described in our 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site to which reference is hereby made. Stockholders are urged to read the definitive joint proxy statement prospectus regarding the proposed merger, because it contains important information, including information regarding the participants and the proxy solicitation. Stockholders may obtain a free copy of the definitive joint proxy statement prospectus, as well as other filings containing information about JPMorgan Chase, without charge, at the SEC's internet site   http://www.sec.gov .   

I would like to remind all participants that the press is on the call today on a listen-only mode. You will hear music until the call is ready to begin.   

DINA DUBLON, CFO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Members of senior management, I'm going to start with what we need to start, which is a statement regarding possible risks and uncertainties in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. And I'm going to leave it on the screen for a few more seconds.   

And I will take you through first quarter financial results this morning, and take questions related to the results. Bill and Jamie will then give you an update on our merger and take additional questions.   

Our earnings for the quarter were at the highest level since the first quarter of 2000, which is not a bad way to start the year. Improvement in capital markets drove net income in the Investment Bank and investment management and private banking to the highest level in over three years. It also provided opportunities to realize gains in private equity. These businesses were more than offset, the anticipated decline in Chase Financial Services, our retail business, due to the slow down in the mortgage market.   

We continue to benefit from very low credit costs. We've seen dramatic improvement in the quality of the commercial portfolio, but also better delinquencies and charge-off rates in consumer. Total Tier 1 capital is $7 billion higher than a year ago, while the capital that is allocated to our businesses, based on risk, is $5 billion lower.   

I'm on slide four, for those of you on the phone, beginning on the left side of the slide, the picture, earnings for the quarter of $1.9 billion were up almost 40% compared to the first quarter last year, and were up about $70 million over last quarter. Earnings per share, 92 cents. And return on equity was 17%.   

We had good growth in revenues. 11% from the fourth quarter and 7% from the first quarter last year. Relative to both periods, expense growth rates were higher.   

The sharp expense increase, up 16% from the fourth quarter, reflected below incentives in the fourth quarter from true-ups, as is common in other broker/dealers. What I mean by that is that the base in the fourth quarter was unusually low. It was also driven by higher incentives in the first quarter from the significantly higher revenues. Credit costs were lower than both periods, contributing to an increase in earnings.   

I'm moving to slide five. And I want to give you a little bit more perspective on the revenue expense growth rate. Revenues, as I said, were up 7% from the first quarter and expenses were up 9%. The larger expense increase were in Retail and in Treasury and Security Services. The lesser from acquisitions.   

Expenses in both groups will moderate in future quarters. The imbalance in growth rates for the firm got exacerbated by businesses that had large swings in revenue with little impact on expenses. I referred to it in January as being the headwinds and tailwinds for 2004.   

Global Treasury and JPMorgan Partners each have small expense bases, so the revenue swings go to the bottom line without much of an offset. Home Finance benefited last year from the unprecedented refinancing boom and had to ramp up expenses throughout the year. Basically to keep up with the volumes. The volumes have dropped in the first quarter dramatically, but the expenses have not yet.   

If we remove the impact of the large swings in these three businesses, we show 10% revenue growth and the same, 9%, expense growth. Not making any excuses, there is room for improvement. Only explaining the story behind the numbers, and we don't manage just for one quarter results.   

Moving to Credit, slide six, another good quarter. Credit costs declined $700 million from the first quarter last year. Commercial and residual credit costs accounted for almost $600 million of that decline, swinging from cost of $330 million, to a benefit of $250 million.   

Commercial net charge-offs in the first quarter were $100 million, or 50 basis points on loans. Significantly down from last year. Consumer credit costs of $735 million were down $130 million from the first quarter. Delinquencies, as I mentioned, were lower, and charge-offs were at the lowest level in over a year. The credit card charge-off rate shown was just under 5.8%, versus 5.95% first quarter last year.   

Total credit costs for the quarter were over $400 million lower than net charge-offs. Most of the reduction in the reserves came from improvement in the quality of the commercial portfolio, as well as subdued loan demand. Nonperforming assets of $2.9 billion were down $1.5 billion from March last year. Commercial criticized exposures were half last year's levels.   

We expect the firm's credit costs to increase from here, as improvement in the quality of the portfolio bottom out, and demand for loans pick up. Reduction in commercial reserves will taper off. And we should expect, therefore, credit costs to be close to the level of charge-offs.   

I'm moving on to the Investment Bank, slide seven. The Investment Bank earnings at $1.1 billion were the highest since the first quarter of 2000. They were up 29%, and 24% from prior periods. We had record trading revenues and the benefit from recovery of loss reserves. Return on equity of 28% was also a record, reflecting a $5 billion reduction in allocated capital, due to lower credit risk.   

Total Investment Bank revenues of $4 billion increased 30% from the fourth quarter and decreased slightly from last year. Excluding Global Treasury, revenues were up 10%. The $400 million decline in Global Treasury revenue, mostly securities gains, masks the growth in client businesses.   

Global Treasury is managing this trustful risk of the firm, not that of the Investment Bank. When we merge with Bank One, Global Treasury results will be excluded from the Investment Bank.   

Trading revenues of $2.3 billion doubled from fourth quarter and were up 18% from the first quarter, driven by record client revenues, up 20% to $1.4 billion. Value at risk, or VaR was $106 million in the quarter, up from both prior periods.   

Fixed income and equities VaR were higher than the first quarter last year, higher risk taking and higher correlation among our fixed income positions contributed to the higher VaR. The increase in equities VaR had a smaller impact, since it contributes to diversification benefit.   

Investment Banking fees of $680 million were up 10% from a year ago, down from a very strong fourth quarter. December was a great month for us. Our calendar quarter is not comparable to most broker/dealers.   

Significant deals in the quarter: We were the co-advisor for Comcast on their $66 billion for Disney. We were joint book runner for G.E.'s $3.8 billion accelerated one-day stock offering. We were joint book runner on $1 billion secondary offering of Telecom Austria for Telecom Italia. We improved our share and rank in announced M&A, even excluding our own deals.   

Our position in the equity and equity-related league table fell because of a drop in converts and some business we chose not to compete on. We moved from number 14 to number 4 in U.S. IPO league table, and we have the largest backlog of IPOs on the street.   

First quarter is a seasonally strong quarter for trading revenues. We would not multiply it by four. Our Investment Banking fee pipeline is up significantly, about 50% from year-end, and strong across all products. It won't all come through at once, but we see much upside from here. Credit costs should increase going forward, as well.   

Chase Financial Services, I'm going to slide eight. The earnings were $430 million. They were down $220 million, or 34%, from the first quarter last year, $200 million of that reduction came from Home Finance earnings.   

Card income was up 11% but was offset by declining deposit spreads and weak auto leasing results. Revenues were down 8% from the first quarter.   

Expenses were up 11%, including $60 million of severance and related charges in the group. That's four times the level we had last year. Higher costs in Home Finance and higher marketing costs in Cards. Depending on mortgage volume, Home Finance expenses should decline later this year.   

Morning originations were down almost 60% as the re-fis slowed. Home equity originations, an area of strategic growth, were up significantly, and applications increased about 40% to $66 billion in the quarter. That's obviously good news for the second quarter.   

We had strong purchase volume in Card, up 15%. Payments were up, balance transfers were down, and average managed receivables, at $62 billion, remained flat.   

Regional banking and middle market deposits were up 10%. Core deposits, which excludes time deposits, were actually up 14% from the first quarter last year. Production metrics in the branches were dramatically better. We had net accretion in checking accounts versus attrition for the prior period. Investment sales increased. Cross-sell of home equity doubled, and new card accounts coming through the branches increased 35%.   

So if all is so well, how come the business lost money in the quarter, and does look worse than the prior year? Deposit spreads were down. They are down now to 180 basis points which doesn't cover the costs. The credit for cross-sell is minimal in our internal MIF. Expenses are up, reflecting restructuring and severance, and credit costs are up as well.   

Compared to Bank One, Chase's Card business has a lower internal funding rate, but the consumer deposit has lower funding credit. We also have different expense allocation policies, and we will be aligning those as we merge.   

Home Finance results for the remainder of '04 may be comparable to the level this quarter, though much lower than last year. We should see improvement in the other businesses.   

Return on equity for the quarter was 18%. It did reflect several unusual items. With the merger, we will have a much stronger platform for growth across all of the retail businesses.   

For those on the phone, I'm on slide 9. Treasury and Security Services earnings of $120 million were up 6% from the first quarter but down from the fourth quarter, which included a $40 million gain on the sale of the business.   

Records revenue of $1.1 billion for the quarter. They were up 19%. Expenses were up 20%. Excluding the acquisitions, whether it is Bank One's Trust business, or Citi's Electronic Financial Services revenues, and expenses were up about 11%.   

Deposits for the group were up 30%, to almost $100 billion. Spreads, though, are much lower.   

Investor services, or cost of the business, had higher asset-based fees viewed to better market conditions. Return on equity for the group is 16%. Under our current approach, the allocated capital includes 100% of the goodwill from the acquisitions.   

We expect a better balance between revenue and expense growth, improved overhead ratios, and higher bottom line, as the synergies from the acquisition materialize. Investor Services should stay on the right side of the V.   

Investment Management and Private Banking earnings, $115 million. They were the highest in over three years. They were up over -- about 15% from the fourth quarter. Pretax margin was 22%. Return on tangible equity was 36%. Return on equity was about 8%. Revenues were up 29% from the first quarter because of market depreciation, as well as increased investor activity.   

Expenses were up 9%, and revenues and expenses were flat to the fourth quarter. Assets under supervision at quarter end were almost $800 billion, up 5% from the fourth quarter and almost 30% up from last year.   

We have net inflows in the quarter that were the highest in over two years. Strong inflows from retail and also net positive institutional inflows in assets under management for the first time in over a year, which is a reflection of improved investment performance. We expect positive operating leverage to continue here as long as the markets cooperate.   

JPMorgan Partners, I'm on slide 11. For the third straight quarter, JPMorgan Partners had private equity gains and a positive bottom line. I guess you just had to keep the faith to get there. Private equity gains of $300 million were at the highest level. The highest level since 2000, with Kinko's providing about half of the gains. We have positive mark-to-market on the public portfolio, offset by net write-downs.   

We continue to reduce the size of the portfolio. The book value for common equity is just about 14%. The investment pace for the quarter was $160 million. It is flow. We generally plan to harvest more than we invest.   

Visibility for company sales is improving. Pipeline looks good for the second quarter. And that's obviously as long as market conditions stay favorable. We will be looking for positive, though single digit, return on equity for that business for the year.   

For those on the phone, I'm on slide 12. Tier 1 capital, as I mentioned, is up $7 billion since last March. The equity allocated to the businesses is actually down $5 billion. The decrease in economic risk is not reflected in the Tier 1 ratio, which is flat at 8.4% to the level last March.   

The risk weighted asset calculation does not factor in the risk ratings of exposure. For example, all loans and commitments, regardless of the rating, as well as private equity investment, get equal weight in the calculation.   

In certain cases, the calculation for risk-weighted assets will also use notionals on derivatives to calculate the risk-weighted assets. We will accelerate our discussions with the regulators for use of economic risk models. These are the foundation for [INAUDIBLE] 2. For the same Tier 1 ratio, the firm has a much stronger capital position.   

And now in summary, for the second consecutive quarter, we had earnings at the highest level since the merger. We increased capital while reducing risk. The economic recovery has helped. We were exposed on the way down and have seen a significant turnaround.   

Our Investment Bank is floating it's very strong pipeline. Investment Management and Private Banking had the benefits of very strong revenue and positive operating leverage, and JPMorgan Partners has opportunities to realize the value it has built in the portfolio.   

Countering these are lower revenues from our Treasury activities and a slowdown in the mortgage market. Credit costs are at unsustainabley low levels, as portfolio improvements have bottomed out. We should see low charge-offs continuing, but generally very low or no further reduction in the reserves from here on.   

We cannot afford to take our eye off the ball during the merger integration. We must focus on what we can control, thus providing superior service and managing expenses.   

Bill and Jamie will comment on the merger in a few minutes, but I would like to take questions about earnings now. I will -- Ron, please.   

UNKNOWN, ANALYST, UNKNOWN: Thanks. And in regard to your comments on the outlook for Chase Home Finance, I think you thought that earnings were going to be flattish from here. And I guess my question is, if production is going to be up and costs are going to be down, why we wouldn't see earnings in that segment rise in coming quarters?   

DINA DUBLON: Don, I will give you the benefit of responding to the question.   

DON LAYTON, CHASE FINANCIAL SERVICE, TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: If there is one characteristic of the mortgage business is there's a lot of volatile components moving around at all times and you see the net.   

Production volume moved up in the first quarter for a short while before rates backed up, like a little bit of a mini boom. That will work through in the quarter as the timing of that in income is a little bit up front and a little bit back loaded, and the expenses tend to be more back loaded from that.   

You then have the risk management revenue from MSRs which bounce around. Dina did not go over it, but we disclosed it, right?   

DINA DUBLON: Sure, absolutely.   

DON LAYTON: It was $86 million a year ago. This quarter it was a small loss of $8 million, so that will bounce around.   

So we're just feeling cautious about predicting trends in this business. At a strategic level, you're seeing this come down to a normal --   

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question on the phone lines, please press star one at this time.   

UNKNOWN: [INAUDIBLE]   

DON LAYTON: Yeah, costs will come down. And things like mortgage warehouse will come down, where you earn money on the inventory in the warehouse, and things will come down with that. So production doesn't mechanistically equal revenue in that sense.   

DINA DUBLON: Let me just add to that that we are calling for increasing rates for the remainder of the year. And in that sense, would expect revenues to come down, as well. Maybe not in the second quarter, as I mentioned just a moment ago, applications were up, late in the quarter, but otherwise, we are looking for higher rates, and therefore, higher, -- you know, lower production statistics and somewhat lower revenues, with a decline in expenses accompanying it.   

Another question here in the room, and then I'll take questions from the phone.   

UNKNOWN: Can you give us a sense of where you expect the run rate for the provision to end up, you know, given the charge-offs that stayed up as you brought the provision down?   

DINA DUBLON: I would expect commercial charge-offs to remain at very low levels. They are at low levels now. They're at 60 basis points on the commercial side.   

The consumer charge-offs are stable, and actually on the margin, potentially improving, since we see better delinquencies than we have seen in a while. I generally would expect the credit costs to be much closer to the level of charge-offs than what you have seen in the last couple of quarters where we have obviously dipped into reserves or reversed the fact that the reserve buildup that we had in the prior year. So I will leave it at that.   

If I may, open it up for questions on the phone -- any questions on the phone?   

OPERATOR: Yes, ma'am. Our first question is coming from Andy Collins with Piper Jaffray.   

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. Just wondering about the severance costs. You talked a little bit about them being higher than expected in Cards and Retail. How much of that really hit the first quarter, and what can we expect, kind of in the second quarter?   

DINA DUBLON: We had severance costs in the consumer bank of $60 million. A large portion, though not all of it, was in our Branch Banking business. The Branch Banking business has been restructuring for a while. So you saw some severance costs late last year, as well.   

Having said that, there is probably some acceleration on the margin that is related to the merger. We have not separated that number out in the overall severance costs. Our estimate is that there may be about $25 to $30 million of the severance incurred this quarter that could be associated with the merger. As we go forward, we will begin separating merger costs from overall operating earnings. In this quarter we felt it was too small a number to separate out.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. And just one detail question. I don't know if you can provide it. But how many employees are there currently in the credit card operation?   

DINA DUBLON: I don't remember it off the top of my head, but I suggest that you call Investor Relations and follow-up to get the employee count, you know, our Card Operations.   

ANDY COLLINS: Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: It is not a secret.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: I'll take a question in the room and then go back to the phone.   

UNKNOWN: Thanks, Dina. Question on the Investment Bank. One is the comp ratio year-over-year ticked up a few hundred basis points. I'm assuming it's a function of revenue mix, but if you could comment on that, and given your commentary on pipeline, if it stays there?   

And it probably goes hand-in-hand, but where's the 2% headcount rise in Investment Bank, where are you adding headcount?   

DINA DUBLON: I will let Steve or Bill, one of them to comment in a moment. So let me just comment on the comp to revenue ratio in the Investment Bank. It is absolutely impacted by the mix of revenues. We had very large Global Treasury revenues in the first quarter last year which impacted the comp to revenue ratio.   

It looked lower than the run rate. If you adjust, just for that, the Global Treasury number, you will see that actually the comp to revenue ratio this quarter is lower than it was last year. So again, it's a mixed question. At the very top level, it's a question of -- what's impacting it is Global Treasury this quarter.   

The question on the pipeline, can you just repeat for a moment the question on the pipeline?   

UNKNOWN: It was related towards comp ratio. Given your commentary about how strong the pipeline is across the board from year end, comp ratio then adjusted for the Treasury activity year-over-year, right now is a good run rate on the comp ratio, and then where is headcount being added in the Investment Bank?   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. You want to comment on the headcount in the Investment Bank, too, and anything else on the pipeline you want to add, Steve?   

STEVE BLACK, MANAGING DIRECTOR, INVESTMENT BANK EQUITIES, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Dina spoke earlier about the pipeline. And the percentage raises from both the fourth quarter of '03 and back to the first quarter of '03, and we feel very good about the pipeline.   

In terms of the -- we're adding investments, we had an investment plan coming out of the end of last year of moving a little bit more from a defensive posture into an offensive posture. It was part of the plan going into '04. It was baked in the plan going into '04. And we do not anticipate a significant amount of change around comp ratios or anything other than what we talked about to take advantage of what we thought was going to be a little bit friendlier environment.   

So I think the issue, as always, is can you turn your pipeline into -- and execute it and turn it into revenue. And if we do that, we're not terribly worried about the comp ratio.   

DAVE COULTER, CHAIRMAN INVESTMENT BANK, JPMORGAN FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT, JPMORGAN PRIVATE BANK, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Dina, could I add one thing?   

DINA DUBLON: Yes.   

DAVE COULTER: This is Dave Coulter.   

I think on part of the headcount adds is we've been doing a lot in the operations and tech side in terms of shifting people to low-cost locations. And part of what you're seeing in terms of the headcount, in addition to what Steve described, are some of the overlaps. As we move people into cheaper locations, there's a period of time where we double-up a bit.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. Thank you, David.   

Another question from the phone, if I may.   

OPERATOR: Your next question is coming from David Stumpf of A.G. Edwards. Please go ahead.   

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS, INC.: Good morning, Dina.   

Two questions. One in the Treasury and Security Services business, you mentioned that the revenue and growth -- revenue growth and expense growth rates were partly related to the acquisitions. But it looks as if those acquisitions came on at a much lower operating margin, if you will. Those revenues came on at a much lower operating margin. Is some of that possibly related to merger-related costs that could have been embedded in the quarter? That's my first question.   

And then secondly, if you look at trading revenue on the fixed income side in the Investment Bank, obviously it was a great quarter. You look back over the last eight quarters, there does appear to be at least some correlation with the direction of interest rates during the quarter in that line item. Obviously, activity has a lot to do with it, too. But could you provide some thoughts on what a normalized run rate might be for that line item now that interest rates do appear to be headed up, at least for the time being?   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. I'm going to ask Don Layton to comment first on Treasury and Security Services, and then Bill Winters to comment on the fixed income.   

DAVID STUMPF: Thank you.   

DON LAYTON: Yes, the acquisitions come in in their initial period at a lower operating margin than the average of TSS. Partly because TSS has some businesses that are a bit more capital intensive, and so they have higher margins to offset that. But basically, what you get is front end costs associated with these, and you haven't yet gotten the value of the synergies which will tend to put them back down to the normal range.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay.   

DON LAYTON: Okay?   

DAVID STUMPF: Yeah.   

DON LAYTON: While I have you, for the answer to the question, credit card has 11,185 people.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. Bill?   

BILL WINTERS, MANAGING DIRECTOR, INVESTMENT BANK CREDIT & RATE MARKET, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: For the income side, it was a very strong first quarter. As we've described each time, we tried to get some color on the trading income. It's really broke into two piece, client revenue and nonclient revenue.   

DAVID STUMPF: Right.   

BILL WINTERS: The client revenue was particularly strong. It was a record quarter. For us, certainly since the Morgan Chase merger. And that, we think, is largely interest rate independent. And we've seen our client revenue pretty steadily grow. There's a seasonality to our client revenue and trading income, particularly in fixed income. But very little correlation with directional interest rate trends.   

The nonclient portion of the trading income was also very strong in the first quarter. Although it was closer to what we would consider to be normal, in the middle of our range. And that is -- will be correlated with interest rates to some degree, although what we've seen consistently over the past two years is a broader diversification of our nonclient revenue across interest rate, currencies, equities importantly, credit, and to a lesser extent commodities. And we continue to invest to build the diversification into our nonclient revenues, recognizing that we're somewhat concentrated in interest rates today, and there is some correlation. Thankfully, is a lower proportion of the overall than client, which is the majority.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay.   

DINA DUBLON: Thanks, Bill.   

DAVID STUMPF: That's helpful, thanks.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. Another question from the phone?   

OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Frank [Glugori], an individual investor. Please ask your question.   

FRANK GLUGORI (ph), PRIVATE INVESTOR, PRIVATE INVESTOR: Yeah, good morning. Nice quarter. My question is twofold.   

Is there seasonality in an improving economic environment? Will there be seasonality to your earnings? I noticed last year you had a pretty good second quarter, and you kind of dropped off in the third, and you picked up in the fourth quarter. Could we expect the same seasonality this year, you know, given an improving economic environment?   

And what will be the effect of the combination with Bank One? Overall for '04, would it be dilutive or would it be accretive?   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. Thank you very much for the question.   

On the seasonality, we do have seasonality in our earnings. Particularly -- although somewhat countering each other. We have seasonality in trading, we tend to have particularly stronger trading revenues in the first quarter than we tend to have in the summer quarter, which is the third quarter. Or, for that matter, the fourth quarter, which has a very slow December.   

On the other hand, we have offsetting seasonality in the consumer businesses, where we tend to see a significant pick-up in revenues and profits. For example, in the Card business, towards the holiday season. So there are elements of seasonality, they are there, in a way, almost irrespective of the economic recovery. So that's on your seasonality.   

With respect to overall the combination and the impact of the combination on earnings in the fourth quarter, we will have some more of that in a -- in the year, not in the fourth quarter, I'm sorry. Up front, for the first six months of the combination, if you are looking at it in the context of '04, we will have the issuance of shares associated with the transaction. And it is dilutive up front. So for the first half of the merger, which is the second half of '04, you would have some dilutive impact from bringing the two companies together.   

What we have discussed with investors is the cumulative effect of savings that we have in putting the two companies together. There are going to be revenue synergies, and you will be hearing the two CEOs discuss it in a moment. And we will have excess capital and therefore the ability to repurchase shares or invest in the business. The combined effect of that over time is very much accretive to shareholders.   

I will take a question from the room. Guy?   

UNKNOWN: Thank you. If I could revisit the issue of the expense structure in the Chase Home Finance business? There was some discussion in the release of investment in the Home Equity business, which is, as you pointed out, sort of a strategic growth area.   

Is there some way you can parse for us what the level of investment was there, and what the first mortgage expense base might have looked like X that investment so we can get a sense for as the origination business is winding down how you take down that expense structure?   

DINA DUBLON: Well, we will be -- we generally do not break the inside the Mortgage Bank into the lines of business between Home Equity and Mortgage, so I will stay away from giving you an exact number of spending against the Home Equity. It is driving a portion of the expense increase. Most of the expense increase that you see is expense that was associated with the build-up in capacity to handle a significantly higher volume throughout the year in the Mortgage business.   

That's the context in which we are looking for the expense decline for the remainder of the year. Essentially, we -- you know, the $100 million increase in expenses that you see early in the year versus the first quarter should go away.   

UNKNOWN: That's fair. If I could just follow-up, then. Could you just give us a little bit of color on the nature of the insurance swing in that auto business, that $40 million or so? That's something that I don't understand.   

DINA DUBLON: Sure. We have a prepaid insurance policy that we entered into three years ago. We were amortizing that policy over the life of the leases on a straight line basis. We did a review in the first quarter, and we had an accelerated pace of lease prepayments. And in that context, took a $40 million catch up charge on the amortization of the insurance premium.   

Yes?   

UNKNOWN: If I could go back to the picture of revenue outlook for the Retail Bank and Middle Market Banking. I take your point on expenses, but is the base quote just that interest rates are so low right now that you're getting squeezed?   

DINA DUBLON: On the deposit side, is your question?   

UNKNOWN: On the revenue side, in general. If we look at the Retail Bank --   

DINA DUBLON: Absolutely. That is -- low interest rates help the mortgage business. By definition they help as well the card business. In certain -- you know, in the funding. On the other hand, they hurt significantly in the deposit business, in the way in which we transfer price in the institution.   

UNKNOWN: Great. Thanks.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. One more question on the phones.   

OPERATOR: Your next question is coming from Don Jones of Credit Suisse First Boston. Please ask your question.   

DON JONES, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning. Thank you. What generally can JPMorgan do to improve its overall net interest margin as it lags considerably behind peer group average?   

DINA DUBLON: We have a very different business mix than what you are comparing us to. So what you are doing is you are comparing us to a commercial bank and saying that, relative to a commercial bank, our net interest margin looks very low. We have a significant proportion of our balance sheet invested essentially in trading assets, liquid securities, which we don't hold for the purposes of interest income.   

So our net interest margin tends to be, in total for the firm, significantly lower than you would find in a commercial bank. We generally, when we are looking at business revenues, et cetera, are looking at the combined impact of total revenues, not separating net interest margin from the noninterest revenue in the evaluation. That's very different in the retail businesses, and if were you comparing the net interest margin in that part of our business, it's significantly higher.   

I would like to bring to a close this part of our earnings call. And invite, if I can, Bill Harrison and Jamie Dimon to join me here to really provide you an update on the merger .   

They are just getting wired, for those of you on the phone who cannot see them .   

BILL HARRISON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Well welcome, everyone. Very nice to see you. Jamie and I promised to come back after the first quarter earnings and give you an update on how the merger is going, and we're very pleased to do that. We've made significant progress, and he and I will take you through sort of our observations, and where we see where we are.   

Let me just give you a quick view of the deal rationale, just to remind everybody. It was to create a better mix of businesses, a better balance between some of our volatile, less volatile revenue streams, a better balance of retail, and wholesale. It was to create market leadership positions in all of our businesses, and, as you know, at JPMorgan Chase, we were -- we didn't have the scale in retail. This deal really makes us a real leader in that space. Enables us to look at continuing to play smartly in a shareholder-driven way to the continued consolidation of a very fragmented U.S. consumer market still.   

The second issue of mine, leadership positions, is we know that leadership positions in any business create that incremental value. So you look at our business mix now, we have real leadership positions in almost everything we do. We're not number one at everything we do, but we really have leadership characteristics and that's where you get the incremental returns.   

In terms of scale and financial strength, we've been a great believer in this for a long time. Scale is where you get the operating efficiencies. An example of that would be credit cards. We believe that, you know, if you're not in the top two or three credit card players in the next three to five years in this industry, you're going to have a tough time making the kind of returns you want, and that's where scale really comes into play. And that's true with a lot of our businesses. That scale really does matter. It creates an operating leverage.   

The other question you get on scale is, have you gotten to be so big that you can't manage it? And I will just say, having gone through all these mergers, and I asked that question in every one. And I have no reason to believe thus far that we are not much better able to create value if we manage it well with the scale we have. Because you have better people, you have better operating leverage. You just have to get the culture right and you have to execute. But I have no reason to believe we can't keep doing that with this combination of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase.   

The scale also, of course, leads to financial strength in terms of earnings. And, as you know, our pro forma earnings for the last year were over $10 billion, and the pro forma market cap is around $140 billion. That matters, okay? It just matters. All of this leading to, hopefully, more consistent earnings growth. Which gets a higher valuation in the marketplace.   

Let me just take you through quickly the -- what we're going to cover today. We want to review the legal and regulatory time line. We want to give you an update on the merger integration, and "how we're doing" with this from a lot of different perspectives. We want to talk about some specific areas around people, technology, and financial management. Provide an update on cost saves and a review of some of the enhanced business opportunities, the synergies that we see on the revenue side coming together.   

In terms of the merger integration time line, we've accomplished a lot in the last three months in terms of legal and regulatory filings. We're happy to report that the proxy statement was declared effective the day before yesterday. That gives us comfort that we are heading towards a mid-year holding company merger. We plan to have -- we've announced a shareholder meeting on May 25. And so we're looking at a mid-year closing. Assuming all of the other regulatory approvals come into place, we don't anticipate any significant problems there.   

After the holding company merger mid-year, then two to three months after that, you'll have the broker/dealer merger. Two to three months after the holding company merger as well, you're going to have the bank card merger. And then the big bank merger will be later this year, or early next year. So that's sort of the time frame that we're looking at.   

Now, let me talk about the merger integration process. I'll just start with the comment that, you know, if you look at a lot of these deals, I would argue look at most deals that are announced, they all look good on paper. So the concern in the marketplace is, did you pay too much and/or can you get the cultures right and execute?   

I think as a price matter, we did a deal that was fair to both shareholders. Assuming that's true, then it's going to be up to us to execute this. And that gets down to how the people come together and work together. And what I will tell you there, and Jamie will I'm sure talk about this as well, is that we are doing really well. And I say that with a lot of benchmarking capabilities since I've been through so many mergers. This merger is going extremely well from all perspectives.   

And, you know, the thing that's also important to understand is that when you have been through a lot of mergers, and this is true on both sides, both management teams have, as soon as the deal is announced, which was three months ago, you come together very quickly. Any issue that either firm has becomes an issue for the new firm to deal with it.   

So we might want to make sure you aren't under the impression that we're saying things are going great, but what happens on mid-year when you actually close it and have to start working on it. We are working very closely together now, and that's been true since we announced the deal. And I would argue that you get a very good feel in the first two or three months as to how people are working together. And that's what we feel very good about.   

One of the questions is, why do we think this is going well? And if you remember, on the day that we announced this, I made the comment that the odds were that we would have a very good merger integration here. And the reason I said that was that the -- the reason it's happening, I think, is that first of all, the strategic rationale has been accepted by almost everyone. People like it. Whether they're employees, clients, or investors, they understand it, and they did that very quickly.   

Secondly, it is very complimentary. It is not an end market merger. All of our other market deals were basically end market mergers. They had a lot of overlap, and they're just much harder.   

Thirdly it is not an investment banking merger, by and large. And I would argue they are much harder to do and much more risky because of the people involved.   

The management experience on both sides is hugely important. And you have significant management experience with both teams. They've just been through a lot of this. You kind of know what to expect. You roll with the punches. And you get on with it.   

The cultures. That's a huge deal. You know, how you operate, how you get things done. It's a huge deal in these things. And that usually creates problems in most mergers. I have been -- you know, we make a judgment as to how good or bad that's going to be, and if you really think it's bad, you don't do a deal, and it's always been a very important consideration. I thought the mergers would work well here. I think it's working even better than I think. We do things in a lot of similar ways, and that's a very, very good sign.   

People see the employees like this deal because they see an opportunity to win. They really see that we can be a great, great financial institution, and that is hugely important right out of the box. They see that very clear.   

Another very important point is, Jamie and I have a very good relationship. As we talked the day we rolled this out, we talked about the fact that we knew each other, have known each other for a long time. But you really don't know somebody until you start working with them. We have worked closely together for three months now. And I respect Jamie even more in terms of his talent, in terms of his values, in terms of the relationship that we have. And that's hugely important, because I would argue that the majority of mergers, that doesn't happen with the two CEOs who come together. It just doesn't.   

But it is happening here. And you can count on that continuing. We will have a good relationship. And that will be very important because it does cascade down from there and throughout the company.   

So another thing that's happening that is really important is, while this is a financial acquisition of JPMorgan and Bank One, we call it a merger, and we operate it as a merger, meaning that you try to get at the best of. And if you do that, you will get a lot more value out of these deals, without question. And I think that is probably happening at a pretty high level around the firm where we're going for best practice, best people, best systems, whatever, and we're doing it efficiently, and people see it as a fair process.   

And I can just tell you, having been through a lot of these, as soon one side, whoever they happen to be in a particular area, sees the process not being fair, they don't want to be part of that organization. So that's all happening, and when you add it all up, it is going about as well, so far, as we could possibly hope.   

Now our merger philosophy in trying to execute all of this is to make sure that the primary responsibility to do this is with the line of businesses, the staff groups, whomever they are, they have the responsibility to execute their merger plan. Overlaying all of that, we have a merger integration office that Don Layton and Heidi Miller run that keeps track of what's going on. It looks at inter-independences, if something happens here, what's the impact on another area of the bank? So we're good at that. We track that, we manage it. And then Jamie is very hands-on in all of his stuff. So the process, I think, is working about as well as we could hope.   

On the organizational side, as you know, on day one we announced a lot of jobs. The announcement date three months ago, we announced an executive committee of 27 people. Now, by now, we've made business decisions, people decisions, three to four levels down in the company, over 600 jobs announced.   

And our number in terms of headcount reductions is still 10,000. That's 6% of our total work force. We're working hard to redeploy people as we lay people off, but we will achieve these numbers. And the leadership of the firm, beyond just Jamie and me and a few other senior people, is working well, as I said.   

And the next slide is just a cut of the Executive Committee which we announced on day one. Just to give you sort of a feel for how we're getting this group involved. We've probably had five, at least five meetings of this group. Half day kind of meetings. One whole day and a dinner. And got into a lot of stuff. And you can get a feel right there how a senior management team is probably going to work together.   

We did some cultural exercises early on. The JPMorgan people on one side of the room. The Bank One people on the other side of the room. You know, what do you like or dislike about your own culture, what do you like or dislike about the other guys culture, and then you share that. And it's good stuff because you're talking about it and you need to get it out on the table and it was -- there were no major surprises there, and it's just -- it was a very healthy kind of exercise.   

The other thing we did, I think is a good indicator, is every time you go through a merger you need to come up with what's your mission statement or purpose, and what are your values, and how do you behave and operate the place? Usually, that's painful. It takes a long time to do. We had a meeting, and probably in less than 2 1/2 hours generally got agreement on what we want to do around those subjects. It's very unusual. This is a good sign. So I feel good about how all that's coming together.   

A few other anecdotes. We travel around a lot. A week and a half ago Jamie and I were in Texas. That's a market where everything came together in a very interesting -- in a very leadership kind of way. There's no business in Texas now that we're not really good at and really big at. Boy, you feel it. It was exciting. Town Hall meetings, we go to all the time, a good indicator of that.   

I've never seen a Town Hall meeting. I had this big Town Hall meeting in Houston, 600, 700 people from both firms. There was a level of excitement that was really kind of different than most mergers. You know, you walk into most merger's Town Halls, and it's a bit of downer, because people are worried about everything and where it's going. And that's not happening. Jamie was in Europe last week seeing the people there. So it's all -- it's all good stuff, so far.   

So with that, let me turn it over to Jamie.   

JAMIE DIMON, CHAIRMAN, CEO, BANK ONE CORPORATION: Okay, Bill. Thank you very much.   

I just want to reiterate, you know, with the opening theme that the merger is going fabulously well. I think the management teams getting along -- much is going on, but all the management teams are getting along very well. And some of the stuff I'm going to take you through, I think will demonstrate that by decisions that we've actually been making. Remember it's only 100 days in. So I think this is, at least as fast as I've ever seen it done.   

On Technology/Systems the teams are working great. We've actually already decided pretty much 90% to 95% of all the major systems platforms. Some of you may know that this often becomes a battle ground for how you're going run a future company. The importance of that is not only -- we've been able to take thousands of people, programmers for example, and they're already starting to work on the actual conversions and not just making the decisions.   

There's - some of the decisions were easy. Like we will be using the Bank One's retail platform, for the most part. We'll be using JPMorgan's wholesale platform, for the most part. We've also pretty much gotten very close to identifying how we're going to do the DDA system, general ledgers, data centers, et cetera. So, we have a -- we just have -- they gave a war room upstairs in 37 and the beginnings of a real calendar. So when we're going to actually do some of these conversions, so we will meet all those things. We've got some great people.   

We have a few big decisions remaining. But at the end of the day, and this last point is important, we will build some of the best systems operations in the business. We have to do it. It's too critical to our company. And so we're going to put a lot of resources and do it right, not just to get it done.   

And I think, if you go to the next page, on the Financial side. Again, this is an area where it -- some of it takes a long time to get it exactly right. Some might tell you, just make a bunch of statements and show you something.   

Number one, we pretty much come down to how we want to report the company internally and externally. It'll be the same, which makes it a lot easier for us. It puts a lot of pressure on our management team, by the way, because there'll be six business segments. They're going to have to report them to you the same way they report internally.   

We're going through all the capital allocation. Obviously, both coming to it a little different. And so we're just going to modify some a little bit. Allocate capital of six business lines. Again, what we do internally and externally will be the same for this matter.   

We're doing revenue sharing. Here it says revenue sharing/expense allocation. It kind of goes a little bit beyond that. We are going to, as we go through thousands of P&Ls, have proper revenue sharing, single set of accounting, and really do expenses on a realtime basis to allocate to the businesses on what I would call an effective basis. So if we have a very ineffective data center, for example, we're only going to charge the businesses as if we were running a really good data center. We're not going to blame them for mistakes that take place.   

The important part of that is they know what their economics are as they make decisions, and we get to go find out why our costs are too high in other parts of the company. It'll be very detailed. It means that there will be a large unallocated expense at Corporate, a little bit different than JPMorgan had, and we had it. And so you'll see a little bit of that and, obviously, be moving around a little bit at the beginning.   

As far as transfer pricing, I think a bunch of you asked a question on interest rate exposures and what happens to narrow margins. Again, this is by product, it's not by business. So that we -- the businesses know what they're responsible for in managing, kind of, unstructural interest rate risk. And then, obviously, Global Treasury will continue to be managed pretty much on the same basis as JPMorgan does it. We want to get the incentives right, and we want the management team to know what they're going to do by product if interest rates go up, as we fully expect them to do.   

We're doing all these conforming accounting policies and purchase accounting. All the goodwill will be kept with the parent. All the purchase accounting like deposits and PCs here all push down to the business units. So we'll have a real simple set of accounting which is the same. We're not done there yet. There's a lot to do.   

And obviously, reserving methodology, you know, this is not an accounting statement I'm about to make, it's just simply we like to have strong reserves and we're going to make sure that we have a very strong balance sheet going forward.   

And obviously, financial operating metrics, and operating, to me, is I think, very important in a business with customer service, attrition, you know, client volumes, et cetera. So that we know whenever you go somewhere, exactly how the business is performing, how much capital you have at risk, what the returns are.   

SVA will be used in the Investment Bank but probably not in any other business. The Investment Bank is really a way to manage trading risks, kind of by desk. But I think in Card, I'm not sure it adds relevant value anywhere else. And the disclosures you should expect to see will start -- will start at the end of the third quarter, and hopefully get better over time, because we've got a lot of things to put together here.   

The next page actually shows you what those segments are going to be. I'll just take a minute to describe them each. I don't know if you can see that. It's kind of small.   

Investment Bank is the Investment Bank that JPMorgan has today, plus part of our large Corporate. In effect, some of that will be moved into the Investment Bank, but not all of it. A lot of it will be moved down to another segment called Commercial Banking.   

Global Treasury, which JPMorgan had in the Investment Bank, will now go into Corporate. So there will be a separate line for it. So Corporate will include Global Treasury, and it will not be in the Investment Bank.   

Card Services is the business you already know. It'll be broken out separately. And, you know, all these businesses, by the way, you'll be able to compare to the best in the business. So Investment Banking you can compare to Investment, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. And Card, you can compare to Citi and MBNA, and Commercial Banking and Retail you can compare to Fells Fargo. So Card will include merchant processing, which I think is a very good business, and we're going to spend a lot of time on.   

Retail will be the branches Consumer Lending and Mortgage. Here we probably will continue to break out a lot of information on Mortgage because it's large, it's volatile, and it's much easier to show it to you than have to explain it to you every quarter. And obviously, it is a very large segment.   

Commercial Banking is new. It's really our Middle Market, plus Chase's Middle Market, plus Chase's Mid Corporate, plus we are adding about half of our Large Corporate, plus all of our Real Estate. So you now have a very large segment called Commercial Banking. It's traditional Commercial Banking done in the regions. We do hope it will generate hundreds of millions of dollars of Investment Banking product, and other product.   

A gentleman from JPMorgan Chase is going to run it, Todd [Maclund] out of Chicago. And all these business segments probably will be earning somewhere around -- some a lot more, but almost all of them will be earning at least a billion dollars, all in.   

Asset and Wealth Management is basically the same segment you have today at JPMorgan, plus our Private Client business, which Jes Staley will be running.   

Treasury and Security Services, three businesses. Heidi will be running it. It's Custody, Cash Management and Trust. And the cash management business will include Bank One's Cash Management business. In setting up this segment, there will be a little bit of to-ing and fro-ing about how we split revenues and profits between some of the segments. The disclosure will get better over time.   

What we hope to do is a lot of this in the third quarter. So it will be kind of sloppy, but I think it's more important we start now and then perfect it later than wait for perfection and never quite get there. So -- and then we had plan '05 we can do a much more detailed and diligent basis.   

Next page just shows you the remaining segments, in which they are -- I think I've already mentioned everything else on this page.   

If you going to page 12. Cost saves, we mentioned $2.2 billion. We are still comfortable and confident in the $2.2 billion. Obviously, a lot more work has been done. Next week we're spending time with all the business units and a couple weeks after with all the staff units to make sure it's achievable. Both Bill and I are very comfortable that'll happened. I want to note the point at the -- we don't know the exact timing yet. We're going to do it right. I'm just less concerned about the timing than I am about the doing it right.   

But the bottom point is the most important. We are going to do it after making all the right decisions. We're not going to make any dumb decisions to accomplish $2.2 billion, and we're completely comfortable we'll get to $2.2 billion after making the right investments in systems, which we do need to do.   

Some of these jobs, as Bill mentioned, you know, the Company in total is already, you know, a couple thousand below budgeted headcount. So we are going to use attrition as our friend and do as much as possible, both cheap and the right way to treat our own people.   

Next page shows you the merger, what it's going to cost to get there. The $3 billion that saves. Remember cost, remember those costs, some will be purchase accounted, some of these go through the expense statement. We'll kind of break it out for you. You know, we don't really know that number yet, and to me, the more the merrier. You know, we find a lot of stuff that we can get out, like Real Estate, we're going to do it. And if that costs us $5 billion, so be it. We have plenty of capital.   

We will be generating a lot of capital. Current estimates are, you know, when we did pro formas to buy back three and a half billion of stock.   

I think the really important thing is we will have a lot of excess capital. It'll either be deployed in buying back stock or in reinvesting our businesses, and we're pretty comfortable to be able to generate that. I think we showed you, your Tier 1 was 8.4, ours was -- Bank One's was 10.2 and the combined will be something under 9. And maybe next time we'll be talking a little bit about financial targets, which we haven't done yet.   

Purchase accounting is also going to be moving around a bit. A lot of little items and little decisions are going to be made. Again, we don't think it's going to materially change what we told you, but now we're getting into -- the devil's in the details, here. It won't change the economics of the deal at all.   

So, we've made a tremendous amount of progress in the infrastructure issues, and hopefully we're going to continue there, and when we see you in three months we'll give you a lot more update on some of those issues. And with that, I'll turn it over, back to Bill.   

BILL HARRISON: So Jamie and I are going to take you through some of the businesses, just to talk about some of the potential opportunities on enhanced revenue synergies. As we said on the announcement date, we weren't going to try to define these soon. We're not going to give you a number today, but we do think that there is significant opportunities here, and we'll give you just a general feel for what we've seen.   

On the Investment Banking side, while this was not an Investment Banking merger per se, it is very value-added to the Investment Bank from several perspectives. First of all, we'll have a lot more capital and a lot more clients, because Bank One did have a lot of good client relationships. And I want to come back to that.   

As a perception matter by our own clients, and the rest of the world, we are just a bigger player because of this, they see. I was in Europe two months ago, just -- this deal is a big deal in Europe, because I think the firms there, the clients there see two or three big firms emerging in the United States and really having an opportunity to be the real leaders globally, and we're one of those. And when that happens, people have a tendency to notice you more and want to do more business with you. And that's what we're going to try to take advantage of. So it is very positive from an overall Investment Banking perspective.   

In terms of the Bank One clients, that Jamie talked about a little bit, they should be tremendous cross-sell opportunities, not only with the large corporate client base they had, but with their middle market client base, with our product set. We have made a lot of joint pitches already. We've gotten a bunch of mandates on IPOs to bonds to whatever. And I think we are going to have some significant opportunities there.   

On the negative side, we do have some concentrations that come out of some of these client relationships that we will manage. The good news is, we have a lot less than we did in say the Morgan Chase merger just because of the respective size in that business. But where we do have them, we will thoughtfully manage them down. We've got a great process going on internally. We had one before the merger. We will continue that. And we have a good economy. So we don't have to do this tomorrow. We'll do it in a thoughtful way so we don't damage the client relationships. And the bottom line is, even with these combinations, we have more diversity.   

On the Asset and Wealth Management side, as we've talked to you before, the combined business will have over a trillion dollars in client assets. It expands our investment offering in the United States, especially in mutual funds. And by combining the strong performance of Bank One's income, fixed income mutual funds, with JPM's product range, we create the fourth largest mutual fund complex in the U.S. And this strength and breadth should help us retain and attract more clients in the future.   

We also see some significant opportunities with our retirement plan services, and defined contribution products that came out of JPM, with One's corporate clients, as a cross-sell matter. The Asset and Wealth Management business has also identified best practices, and one of the great things with mergers, you do see best practices. You tend to think you're doing something really well, and you sit down with your counterpart and you say, wow, they're doing it better.   

So one of the things here is growing -- is using mutual funds, using our distribution in the retail branches with our mutual fund product. Bank One in the first quarter distributed roughly $527 million of their own mutual funds through their consumer network, branch system. At Chase, we distributed $64 million. A big opportunity. A big opportunity. And you see that it can be done.   

And lastly, the firm will have no gaps in coverage in the Private Banking space. JPMorgan is very upscale, $25 million and above kind of client relationships we're after. Bank One tended to be between 2 and that number. And so -- and that's a huge market. That is a much bigger market than the pure upscale market. Both of them are very attractive markets. And then we have the whole range covered, and then with the branch system, you've got the real low range of wealth management opportunity coverage. So, I'm very excited about that long term.   

The key to this business is making sure during this merger process you keep the service levels up, and we're working hard on that. We've been through it before. We kind of know what we need to do.   

So with that, over to you, Jamie.   

JAMIE DIMON: Thank you. Page 17, Treasury and Security Services. To just give you some quick examples, we sold our Trust business to JPMorgan. When we did that, we had an internal number that we were eventually going to lose $10 million of net profit because we no longer offered from the cash management loss and losing the trust business. Well obviously we're going to keep that between the consolidated company.   

In Trust Services, Investor Services, Custody, we simply lost business because we didn't have the same global capability. We didn't have custody at all in our product set. So you can see right off the bat there should be multiple cross-selling opportunities. Obviously, this business has to go through fairly complex conversions, and that will take a little bit of time, so.   

On Commercial Banking, you know, this is an example, I think where Bill and I kind of changed midstream, and we decided that this segment, we actually should beef up and add coverage, so that the Middle -- the Commercial Banking will be covering just something like 750 or 1,000 clients today. It's a lot more than either company alone, in the regions. They hope to generate Investment Banking product. Remember, the 500 clients are those who come out of Bank One, we did not have most Investment Banking products that JPMorgan has to offer.   

We had debt and asset back to conduit. We did not have equity. We didn't have most of the derivatives, didn't have a lot of the FX, and we think that should be very beneficial. And the trick here is to cover the client properly, as we make, you know, certain migrations of products and platforms and bankers.   

The third, Retail. You know, we think the opportunities are very large in retail. And you're going to end up with a very good systems and marketing platform. Both companies have very good product sets. You know, in one case the product set in the small business was better at Chase than at Bank One. That's been adopted.   

We're going to have a method -- if you see the papers today, you see there's now free checking at Chase, which they didn't have. We're just starting to do with direct deposit. We have some established management people, and I think you're going to see a lot of cross-selling between insurance, asset management product, with some of the best systems and training.   

So we're pretty comfortable we'll get these done. Again, these one will be Chase platform. We'll have to go through a major conversion. Both companies have done that before, and we hope to do that sometime mid year next year.   

So with that, I will turn it back to -- Oh, I'm sorry, Card Services. Card, by the way, we never really talked about revenue enhancements and stuff, we talked about mostly cost saves. There are clearly opportunities on how we price credit, offer credit, we do young --   

OPERATOR: Once again, to ask a question, please press star one on your touchtone telephone at this time.   

JAMIE DIMON: -- marketing, create more cards, and create a deeper product set. So in this business, we do fully expect we'll both get a good solid round of cost savings and some real margin and revenue enhancement as we kind of cross-market our product set over time.   

And one was on the slide, the incremental interchange revenue. Read that as Visa and Master Card both want our business. We do expect that we will be successful in negotiating a more attractive deal.   

So, with that, I'll turn it over to Bill.   

BILL HARRISON: So, just to summarize, I think we've accomplished a great deal over the first 100 days. The merger integration from a cultural perspective is going as well as we could possibly hope, and that's very important the first couple years of these deals, increased conviction on cost saves, and enhanced opportunities on the revenue synergies --   

OPERATOR: Once again to ask question, that is star followed by one on your touchtone telephone.   

BILL HARRISON: -- so we're off to a very good start. We've got a lot of hard work to do. We're not declaring victory. But I think we feel good about it.   

So we'd love to take some questions. There's not a whole lot of more detail we're going to be able to give you, but we'll take a shot at anything. Yes?   

UNKNOWN: Yeah, the high level as you think about capital deployment. As we forecast the share issuance, capital issuance, and then the returns on that, the ROE drops down to something like 11%. How do you think about capital? Some of the responses that I have heard from Investor Relations have been, well, just look at what Banc of America and Fleet are going to do, watch that one. The other responses, look at return on tangible capital. But as shareholders, if you're investing capital for us, how would you have us think about it? Shouldn't we expect a return on that capital, on the intangibles?   

JAMIE DIMON: Jamie, Dina, why don't you take a shot at that? If you listen -- if you're getting goodwill, we are going to include intangibles in how we look at returns, but not goodwill. In goodwill, I can go through different arguments why it doesn't really make any difference at all. The Investment Bank, if you go business by business, each of those businesses you've code numbered yourself what they should be earning to be a good competitor.   

So Investment Banking, it should be 20% to 25% through a cycle. Commercial banking 20% to 25% through a cycle. Credit card, you know, 15% to 25% through a cycle. Retail, which should be 30%, in my opinion. And what -- Asset Management, I'm not sure it's the proper way to look at it. We look more at margins in TSS. We look more at margins. That's how you should look at it. If we really perform. Now, all our businesses aren't there, but that's how we should be looking at it.   

DINA DUBLON: If I may just add a comment, we will earn a return on total shareholders equity for the firm. So whether we allocate goodwill to the line of business or don't allocate goodwill to the line of business, we will earn a return on the total shareholders equity.   

Having said that, the equity that we now have is an equity that the book value of it has been marked up to market value, right? So if I -- we earn exactly the same dollar amount at Bank One, just earning the first quarter annualized, we will still have a lower book equity return. Just because the equity has been marked up. We will target a return for the firm that is higher than the cost of equity. On the overall equity of the firm. Even though at the line of business level, we are not allocated the goodwill. In part, not to mask the performance across different businesses that have different levels of goodwill. Kind of MIS.   

So you know, the Investment Bank, the JPMorgan Chase acquisition was a pooling. The accounting is such that you didn't mark up the equity level. It doesn't mean, right, that you are not going to be looking for very high returns on both, even though the accounting is going to look very different.   

BILL HARRISON: Another question? Yes. There's a mic coming.   

UNKNOWN: I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more of a feel as to exactly how you're going to bring the credit card business and, separately, the investment management businesses together in order to capture some of those synergies? How many of the decisions, at least, have you made already as to, for example, which operating centers you'll retain, which ones you'll be moving away from on the credit card side?   

And on the investment management side, my thought is, it would seem that you would want to move very quickly to identify what you want to keep and where you want to put things together so that you can retain the people that you want to. So those are the two areas that I'm interested in your comments.   

BILL HARRISON: The bottom line, and we can get Jamie to comment on this, we're moving very fast on all of this, I mean remarkably fast. So -- and you do that for a lot of reasons. First of all organizations want to move fast. And secondly, you need to do it to stabilize your people so you don't create problems. But in cards --   

JAMIE DIMON: In credit cards, the big platform decision will be FDR [Tesis], remember we were moving to [Tesis]. Either way, we're going to save a lot of money. We're going to convert to just one. Either way have you duplicate corporate staff overheads. So we do know those.   

We have identified a lot of operating sites. I'm not going to go through that here for obvious reasons. But we do have in mind which ones will stay and which ones won't. And mostly based on cost effectiveness, how big they are, 24/7, locations to time zones, and stuff like that.   

And we have -- and on the marketing kind of pricing side and credit side, you know, we are, matter of fact, meeting next week on it. There are clear opportunities -- Sure, Bank One, for example, we had a lot of margin compression sometime last year and now you see margin expansion. We weren't doing enough repricing and depricing. We're going to be doing a little bit of that on ours, based upon the knowledge that Chase has, and visa versa. We think it's a real opportunity. So, yes, we've made some of them, and others we're just still analyzing.   

BILL HARRISON: At Input Management, in an announcement date, we named Paul [Baitman] who is on the JPMorgan Fleming side, came out of Fleming, as head of Global Asset Management. So right off the bat, Paul was getting involved with Jes and helping make those decisions. And Jes, we've made a lot of them. You might just comment on that.   

JES STALEY, ASSET & WEALTH MANAGEMENT, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Yeah, I think the critical thing on the Asset Management side was on the fixed income side, and we announced very early on that we're going to keep both fixed income engines. Gary Maddox will be the CIO for the Heritage One platform in Columbus, which will be maintained. Patty Cook will be the CIO in New York for the Heritage Morgan platform, both reporting to Seth Bernstein. The response back from institutional clients' consultants has already been very, very positive.   

To Bill's point, I think we were very quick out of the box. And the critical thing for us in bringing these businesses together is to preserve the high quality investment engines that you have. So you sort of want to do the opposite of what a merger thinks or might drive you to. It's not to get synergies by putting people together. It's really preserving the investment engines that you have that clients have entrusted the money with.   

BILL HARRISON: Let's take a question on the phone.   

OPERATOR: We do have a question coming from Andy Collins of Piper Jaffray. Please pose your question.   

BILL HARRISON: Hello, Andy.   

ANDY COLLINS: Good afternoon. Just a couple of questions on the time line for cost savings recognition. I wonder if there's been any change there?   

And second, kind of a related question. Have you -- you know, there's been a quarter now, and I was wondering if you could sort through your cost savings goals, if there is upside to, you know, wholesale Card Or Corporate, where it might be?   

JAMIE DIMON: You know, I think I -- I don't know if you just joined the call, but $2.2 billion, we still confirm. We're very comfortable that Jes is making the right investments, and we don't really know the timetable until we do a bottoms up. So we have the same model in there. We will probably know more in the next quarter. We'll tell you then. It shouldn't be that materially different.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay.   

JAMIE DIMON: And we'll update if the 2.2 changes dramatically, but I I think you -- hopefully you sense that there's confidence in the 2.2.   

ANDY COLLINS: Definitely do.   

JAMIE DIMON: Let me put it this way. It won't be less.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay. Thank you.   

BILL HARRISON: Another question from the phone?   

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time on the phone line.   

BILL HARRISON: Yes?   

UNKNOWN: Is it on? You moved the Treasury Management out of the Investment Bank. Does this reflect any changes in how you're thinking about managing the interest rate risk in the combined company? And are there any benefits with the combined companies put together in terms of, you know, facing up to potentially rising rates?   

JAMIE DIMON: You know, the issue, number one, is it really -- it doesn't really belong in the Investment Bank. It's a much bigger company today. And there's interest rate exposures in all of these businesses. You're really taking the best of both worlds. JPMorgan does a great job of managing structural interest rate risk. And Global Treasury Management will continue the same way. Just the location on how it rolls up will be different.   

I think Bank One did a very good job of managing interest rate exposure in the business unit, nonstructural. Like, how are you going to reprice this kind of deposit and reprice that kind of deposit and reprice credit card marketing when your cost of 12-month zero teasers changes, which obviously will change as the interest rates change.   

So, it'll be the best of both worlds, and we're going to have a very diligent team. They've met. They've all been working on it to make sure we really understand it , both at the business level and then what resides at corporate.   

BILL HARRISON: This is an example in prior merges where that subject took over a year to sort of debate and decide on, and we have a lot of experience on both sides. We've got a group of six or seven people. Had some two or three very thoughtful meetings and made a decision everybody was totally comfortable with.   

UNKNOWN: Second one, a related question which is, the Bank One's traditionally run with a fortress balance sheet with a high Tier 1 capital, those are very high equity to assets, high leverage ratio. JPMorgan Chase is run with a high Tier 1 but a low leverage ratio. Occasionally flirting with, sort of, the 5%.   

How are you going to sort of reconcile those two approaches? How are you thinking about capital? Have you reconciled differences, which is really trying to manage risk fundamentally, you know, away from those, you know, ratios? Are you fairly much now in sync on those kinds of issues as well?   

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, I'll answer the first one. You know, Bank One had too -- we had too much excess capital, so we were sitting there buying back stock and we were probably raising the dividend a couple of times, and we were looking for acquisitions, made a bunch. So there was no reason to run with capital way in excess of what you need, particularly when you have constant sources to get it if you need it.   

I think both of us say we want a really strong fortress balance sheet type concept, and when we finish going through capital and risk and how much we can bear and going through really bad environments, we're going to try to be much more specific with you in that number. But it should be a healthy Tier 1 number and a very strong balance sheet at the end of the day.   

BILL HARRISON: Yes?   

UNKNOWN: Can you talk about overlaps of some corporate customers? And I'm curious as you look at that, first of all, has there been any leakage here post-merger of clients just, some slipping out? And as you look at it, can you sort of guesstimate what the revenues or you know, give us some more color on that?   

BILL HARRISON: We don't have a lot of overlap that should be significant from a revenue perspective. The comment I made was you have some when you have a credit concentration that's more than we want. But what we'll do with those clients is go to them and say we want to get it down from A to B, we'll do it over time, we'll still be a major credit -- maybe you're still your largest credit provider. If you do that smartly, they're fine with it. We don't lose a lot of revenue in that piece.   

Where you have the other client overlaps, in terms of both firms having a relationship, well, what I was saying is that in a lot of the One clients, particularly the middle market clients and some of the corporate clients, we bring a much broader product set. So we should be enhancing revenue from that.   

UNKNOWN: You're not assuming any revenue attrition?   

BILL HARRISON: You'll have -- I'm saying it's not material. The net net effect of that will be much more positive on revenue synergy than a loss of revenue.   

Yes?   

UNKNOWN: Are you open to looking at credit card portfolio acquisitions during the integration period? Are you more biased towards getting the platforms together before you look at that whether private label or bank card?   

JAMIE DIMON: Are you asking to hear from JPMorgan Chase or somebody else you're covering?   

UNKNOWN: No, for you guys.   

JAMIE DIMON: We -- no -- I mean, I would say the answer is yes, because we, you know, we just did -- we just closed Circuit City, literally, as we're doing this deal. You know, if it's -- high hurdles to do it, because of conversions, consolidation, what platform they're on, but we wouldn't absolutely rule it out.   

BILL HARRISON: Question on the phone?   

OPERATOR: We do have a question coming from Nancy Bush of NAB Research. Place pose your question.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi, Jamie. Just a quick question on the retail branding issue. How -- when do you expect that, you know, you will have made the decision about Bank One versus JPMorgan Chase at the retail level?   

JAMIE DIMON: I hope that when we all talk to you at the end of next quarter we'll give you the complete run-down in branding. That's what we're aiming for. And it would be nice to get that behind us so we can all move on.   

NANCY BUSH: Is there some sort of, you know, research that's being done at this point, some firm out there?   

JAMIE DIMON: Oh yeah, we're doing extensive research. Remember the Retail/Commercial Bank will either be Bank One or Chase. We're doing extensive research. A lot of sub issues about what you call certain products and product lines, and hopefully that will all be done by the next time we talk to you. I don't think it will affect the deal in any way, shape, or form.   

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And also on the credit card, the FDR versus [Tesis] platform, is there sort of a timeframe in mind, right now?   

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah, very soon. Like in the next two weeks.   

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.   

JAMIE DIMON: I mean, we're very close, as we speak. And you can tell those guy, 'cause they have to come back one more round of bids, too.   

UNKNOWN: Jamie, if I heard you correctly when we were talking about disclosure, I think you said that SBA was only going to be disclosed for the Investment Bank.   

JAMIE DIMON: Right.   

UNKNOWN: It makes sense for some of the other businesses, for example, Cards. Could you expand on that? Because obviously there are certain risk profiles that both use the balance sheet.   

JAMIE DIMON: You know, we will use risk based stuff in pricing card portfolios and prime equity and stuff like that. But I think, as a public shareholder, and, you know, for the most part, JPMorgan used 12% in capital. And you know, if we earned 20% in the Card business, we're up 8% over 12% SBA. I just -- to me it's the same number, and I don't want to -- I want our business people to talk about one number.   

Because, you know, they tend to talk about SBA. If that's modestly positive, then I look at a 14% return as being too little. So I think it is effective in certain businesses. And so it's a different thing. I don't think it adds a lot of quality to reporting in Retail Or Credit Card Or Commercial Banking.   

Yes?   

UNKNOWN: Jamie, with Bank One, you sort of gradually, over time, moved a fair amount of business into kind of a -- either a discontinued portfolio, or somehow ran off or sold businesses that you didn't really think met sort of the appropriate risk and reward characteristics for the company. As you look at JPMorgan's business mix, are there significant pools of assets or revenues where you feel that same issue exists, where over time, from a risk characteristic standpoint, you would look to identify with JPMorgan management, sort of those areas that you feel less comfortable with?   

JAMIE DIMON: I think, you know, one of the things that Bill mentioned when we did the first analyst thing was that the equity, you know, One Equity Partner, JPMorgan Partner, should be less than 10% of the combined equity.   

And I forgot to mention, that's -- JPMorgan Partners will not be a segment, it'll be in Corporate, as will One Equity Partners We'll still disclose what you need to see, but it's not a business line on the same nature as other ones.   

I think that both companies -- I think that if we feel that there are assets we want to get out of the businesses, we will be aggressive in getting it out of them. Whatever the cost. Because, you know, problems like that don't age well. We might as well just take the hit and move on. But I don't think there are massive things you should expect to see that happen to.   

BILL HARRISON: Any other questions? One last question on the phone?   

OPERATOR: Our last question is coming from Danny Hassan of North Sound. Please pose your question.   

DANNY HASSAN, ANALYST, NORTH SOUND: Yeah, Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Two questions. One, Jamie, on the last call or the merger call, you talked about potentially a JPMorgan branded card. I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on that?   

And then the second question is, in your presentation here, you say that those opportunities have transformed the merchant acquiring business, and I was wondering if you could talk about, you know some of the ideas behind doing that.   

JAMIE DIMON: Yeah. Merchant processing we don't know the answer to yet. And actually, we're spending time on it next week sometime. We have -- we own 52 -- payment tax, Chase merchant services, it's a 50/50 joint venture with FDR. I'd be surprised if there're not opportunities, I couldn't identify them for you. So it won't be worse.   

And the other question is about the JPMorgan card is wrong. Someone pointed it out to Donnelly, who pointed it out to me five minutes after the analyst call, that there is in fact a JPMorgan card. But that doesn't mean there won't be opportunities to market and figure out what to do with it. I certainly think we have a card that can, you know, that little black card that some people spend $2,000 dollars for an American Express, we may want to try to outdo that at one point.   

DANNY HASSAN: Is this the kind of card where you could have the --   

BILL HARRISON: In summary, I think both of us are pleased with our respective earnings in the first quarter, that we stayed focused on the business. That's our intent. And we're also pleased that we're off to a very good start in terms of merger integration. So thanks for being with us today.   

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation. That does conclude this afternoon's teleconference.   

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]   

   CO
bone : Bank One Corp | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040505e04l000v7
  


 HD
 Q4  2003 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,225 words
   PD
21 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the J.P. Morgan Chase fourth quarter 2003 full year review conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following today's presentation. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Dina Dublon. Ma'am, you may begin.   

DINA DUBLON, FINANCE, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: Thank you very much, good morning to all of you on the call. The purpose of the call is to discuss our financial results for the quarter and for the year. I will touch on the merger at the end but now we'll concentrate on the results.   

   TD
Over this past year, our focus was on improved financial performance in execution of key initiatives to reduce risk, increase capital and improve productivity. We have believers. Earnings rebounded strongly driven by revenue growth from all businesses and a dramatic decrease in commercial credit costs. The Investment Bank and Chase Financial Services had record earnings for the year. We lowered the rates in both the commercial credit and private equity in the 4th quarter. Our capital is stronger today than it was a year ago, economic capital allocated to the businesses declined by $4 billion while the equity capital of the firm increased by $5 billion.   

Slide two. Earnings for the quarter of $1.9 billion were up 14% from the third quarter and we more than doubled the operating results in the 4th quarter last year, earnings for the year of $6.7 billion were twice last year's level. We had positive operating leverage with revenue growth in excess of expense growth rates and lower credit costs compared to all prior periods.   

Earnings in the 4th quarter included an adjustment to bring our corporate tax rate to 33% for the full year and an adjustment for using compensation costs to reflect full year incentives. Return on aggregate was 17% for the quarter and 16% for the year.   

In the bottom of the slide, 4th quarter earnings per share was 89 cents, for the year, $3.24, significantly up and moving to slide 3, all businesses contributed to the 13% growth or $4 billion in revenue growth for the year. Investment Bank revenues increased 16% or $2 billion, Chase Financial Services had another record year, adding over $1 billion to revenue and for the year, J.P. Morgan's partners had an $800 million from the very large loss in 2002.   

Slide four is commercial credit only. The right side of this slide shows the continued decline in criticized exposures rated triple C or lower. They're down almost $8 billion or 50%. Commercial nonperforming assets were $2.4 billion at year end, down from September and down almost $2 billion or 40% from the end of '02.   

On the left side, growth charge offs came down significantly in the 4th quarter to half the level of the 3rd quarter and less than 25% of the level in the 4th quarter last year. We also had high recovery this quarter, resulting in commercial credit cards of only $8 million or about 4 basis points on loans.   

Commercial and residual reserves were reduced about $260 million this quarter, the residual components remains at our policy maximum of 20% of the total reserves. Commercial credit cards for the quarter were a benefit of $250 million. The including trend should continue but decelerate from the pace we had this year. We expect to reduce reserves further in 2004 but credit cards or the provision, should be higher than in '03, commercial and residual provisions in '03 were only $50 million.   

Moving to slide 5, we made significant progress on the year lowering risks on commercial credit and private equity, on the left side of the slide, commercial credit risk capital is down $5 billion or 40% from the end of '01. Total commercial credit exposure is down $60 billion over this time period. We are actively managing risks, we added $11 billion in single named credit default swaps this year, up to $35 billion, and sold higher risk loans and commitments. We continue to reduce single name concentration. In '04, commercial credit exposures may increase as M&A activity and loan demands pick up.   

On the right side of the page, the private equity portfolio is smaller and more diversified. The book value as a percentage of common equity has been cut in half since 2000, with greater diversification by industry and investment ties. The book value at year end was $7.3 billion, down almost 40% from the end of 2000.   

On slide 6, we have a stronger capital position today than we did a year ago. Commercial credit and private equities risks are down, driving a larger amount of unallocated capital, unallocated economic capital that is now sitting in corporate. Here, one capital increased $5 billion with some earnings. The dividend pay out ratio was 43% in '03, half the level in '02. Assets are up slightly from the end of last year, but risk-weighted assets are up about 12% in part reflecting a change in the calculation.   

Moving on to Investment Bank revenues on slide 7, this is a break than we provided in the press release hoping to add value here. Total Investment Bank revenues for the year at $14.4 billion were up $2 billion from 2002, but please note that we're still lower than in 2001.   

The next part of the slide breaks Investment Bank revenue into client, treasury and portfolio management. Portfolio management revenues include both our proprietary trading unit and revenues from risk positions in our client-related market banking. In total, $2.4 billion or 17% of Investment Banks revenues in '03. Note; they were close to $4 billion in '01. Portfolio management revenues contributed to the rebounding trading revenues from '02 but still, are at a much lower level and lower percent of revenues than in '01. In fact, investor/client revenues in trading businesses has been the growth driver since the J.P. Morgan merger.   

Treasury financial revenues at 12% of the total, or $1.7 billion, have been tied over the last three years as rate s decline. We expect these revenues to decline less than 10% of Investment Bank revenues as rates rise. We should see lower securities gains and net interest income from treasury business. Finally, client revenues were 71% of revenues or $10.2 billion in '03, compared to 63% of revenues in '01.   

The bottom table highlights that 4 1/2 billion of client revenues comes from our trading businesses. It has grown at a compound annual rate of 21%. That is the source of our optimism; we expect investor clients activity to grow in the rising rate environment as well. Note that investment banking fees in all other client revenues are actually down over the two-year period as IBC has not yet returned to '01 levels. Again, a source of upsizing.   

Moving to slide 8, we had a very strong quarter in investment banking fees with $830 million in revenues, the highest quarterly level in two years, and at about 30% from both the 3rd and 4th quarter of last year. Equity underwriting had its best quarter in three years. For the year, Investment Banking fees were $2.9 billion, an increase from an increase of 6% from last year.   

In Europe, we were the only top-ranked firm across the equity, bond and M&A market. We doubled market share in equity and equity related in the U.S. or globally. The Microsoft transaction demonstrates our innovation, the $1.5 billion Suisse Franc equity link offering for Suisse Phone shows our global reach. We can deliver results by integrating products, expertise and capital to the clients' benefit. The pipeline in December was up from last quarter and from the 4th quarter last year. We could pick up in M&A and syndicated lending, though still a very modest increase.   

Slide 9, moving to Chase Financial Services, 4th quarter earnings of $560 million were up 23% from the year ago. Revenues of $3.6 billion were up 8% and return on equity for the quarter was 25%. Full year earnings of 2 1/2 billion are up 8% from the record level in '02, driven by very strong results in all of the credit businesses, partially offset by a large decline in regional banking income.   

Return on equity for the group was 28%. Mortgage drove the revenue and income increase for the quarter in the year, keeping records in application, origination, revenues and profits. Revenues of $870 million for the 4th quarter may trend slightly lower from here though income is at a sustainable level.   

Origination and warehouse balances continue to decline while servicing and loans portfolio, particularly in home equity, continued to rise. Servicing was up to $470 billion in the quarter, originations were down to $50 billion and we expect it to further decline in the 1st quarter, we have reduced the workforce here and expenses will decline. I am, again, referring to the mortgage business.   

Card revenues were up 4% from comparable periods. The business broke a record, 4.2 million new accounts in '03, a 14% increase over last year. Charge volume was up 7% to $60 billion though attrition and high payment rates, which is kind of the other side of the refi boom that consumers are very liquid, puts pressure on revenues in the card business. Record deposit levels for the year in the regional banking, up 7% and middle market business up 17%, were more than offset by the impact of lower spreads.   

Income was significantly lower as spending on branch technology increased while revenues declined. Also, revenues for the year were also a record, driven by $28 billion in originations for the year. Overall, an outstanding year for the business.   

Slide 10, investment management and private banking had its best quarterly performance, clearly set on the right side of the V-shape. Earnings of $100 million was up 23% from last quarter and up significantly from a very weak 4th quarter last year. Pretax margin improved to 18%, and return on intangible equities was 31%, return on total allocated equities was lower. For the full year, revenues of $2.9 billion were flat to last year, and earnings of $270 million was up only 3%. Just as a parenthesis comment, the average level of the S&P 500 in '03 was actually lower than the average level in '02.   

Assets under supervision at the end of the year were $768 billion, they were up 18% from last year and 6% for the quarter. In the quarter, we had positive net inflows to assets under management in retail and private banking. All major asset classes in U.S. institutional equities were above benchmark in '03, creating positive outlooks in our investment performance is the key to retaining and growing institutional assets. For '04, the rising equity values and increased market activity should continue to see growth.   

Slide 11, treasury and security services, record revenues of $1.1 billion for the quarter included a $40 million pretax gain from the sale of a small business. Excluding the gain, revenue was up 10% and still a record. Fourth quarter earnings of $147 million were up 15% from the year ago quarter due to the gain. The rebounding revenue and income in the quarter was driven primarily by the recovery in the custody business which had the second sequential quarter of revenue and income growth. Full-year earnings declined 16%, driven by weakness in custody for the year and, to a lesser extent, corporate trust, institutional trust. Return on equity was 21% for the quarter and 19% for the year.   

We close the Bank One Trust acquisition in the 4th quarter and the Citicorp Electronics Financial Services acquisition in January. Revenues from these two businesses will contribute 7% to growth in '04. The portfolio acquisitions and continuing recovery in custody will contribute to strong growth in '04.   

Moving to slide 12, J.P. Morgan Partners reported private equity gains of $159 million, the second consecutive quarter of gains bringing the full year total to small gain of $7 million compared to a large loss in '02. The direct portfolio had a $900 million swing, driven by realized gains on sales and the timing write downs in the second half of the year. We reduced the third party funds portfolio by 40% from year-end '02, to $1.1 billion. Funds performance is stabilizing. The liquidation phase for third party funds is winding down.   

In '03, we invested $800 million in the direct portfolio. Further reductions in total private equity assets will mainly come from harvesting more than we invest. The pipeline is good, the Kinko's transaction that announced in early January provides a strong, start for the first quarter. We are looking for continued improvements in the positive bottom line for the year, though we expect to generate only low returns in '04, with the pace picking up in '05.   

Summarizing the year on slide 13, we delivered on what we set out to do in the beginning of the year, improve financial performance and execute key initiatives. Earnings were at the highest level since the merger we reduced risk concentrations and increased capital. We expect in '04 to see a different mix of earnings, the Investment Bank is targeting higher issuer and investor client revenues, the securities gains and interest incomes may be lower, mortgage earnings should decline from the record in '03. 4th quarter earnings were more in line with what we expect from the business.   

We look for growth in other retail businesses driven by modest revenue growth and improved efficiency but it may not offset lower mortgage earnings. Improved equity market and increased M&A activity will drive increased opportunities in the private equity and higher fees in investment management and private banking as well as the consumer business. As in 2003, we expect consumer credit to be stable, but commercial credit costs may rise as the reduction in the allowance slows down. The quality of the portfolio continues to improve.   

Slide 14, just a broader look at '04, as a stand-alone firm, we save the head wins and tail wins I just described. Tail wins coming from gains in market share, rising equity values and increased market activity. The Bank One merger is a strong strategic feat. We are cautious on the short-term outlook, our estimates for cost savings in '04, which is about 15% of the full $2.2 billion would be about $300 million in '04, would be more than offset by estimated amortization expense of about $500 million. Repurchases resume only post merger.   

The spotlight will be on our execution, we have regulatory findings and approvals to get through, management changes to digest, customers and shareholders to complete . Long-term, we have little doubt about the financial success of the deal. The combined firm will have lower volatility, higher earnings per share and will compete in retail markets nationally with much more power than J.P. Morgan Chase could on a stand-alone basis. With that, I would like to open it up for questions.   

OPERATOR: Thank you, the floor's now open for questions, if you do have a question, please press the number one, followed by 4 on your touch-tone telephone.   

DINA DUBLON: No questions, I can't believe it. Only good news, no questions.   

OPERATOR: Once again, if you do have a question, you may press one followed by four. One moment while I poll for questions. Our first question is coming from David Stumpf from A.G. Edwards. Please go ahead with your question.   

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning, Dina, just a clarification on one of the last statements you made about the Bank One acquisition, you gave some guidance, I think, for the annual core deposit and tangible amortization, did you say if was going to be 500 million annually or is that 500 million in '04?   

DINA DUBLON: That's 500 million for six months of '04. We are again, those are estimates, the estimates are being done on the basis of accelerated amortization up front so numbers decline over time.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay, over what kind of life do you think?   

DINA DUBLON: We are, at this point, using a 10-year life with accelerated amortization. These are all numbers that will be subject obviously to new estimates, well be filing a proforma statement probably over the next couple of weeks.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay. Follow-up question related, you mentioned repurchases, did I hear you say no share repurchases until after the deal closes?   

DINA DUBLON: That's correct for J.P. Morgan, we will be able to resume the purchases only after the deal closes. Bank One announced yesterday they will continue with the regular program for repurchases prior to the closing of the deal. I do want to clarify that all the amortization numbers as well as the savings number I was talking about before are all pretaxed.   

DAVID STUMPF: I understand. Okay. That's great. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Walter Scully of Putnam Investments, please go ahead with your question.   

WALTER SCULLY, ANALYST, PUTNAM INVESTMENTS: Hi, Dina.   

DINA DUBLON: Hi,.   

WALTER SCULLY: Just a quick question on the regional banking. If you could give a little bit more color on why the revenues were down, just given that the deposits were up almost 10%, I'm surprised that revenues were down that much. So, maybe some color on the numbers of the spread compression or if there is something else there?   

DINA DUBLON: I will ask Don Layton to address the question.   

DONALD H. LAYTON, CHASE FINANCIAL SERVICES, TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES, TECHNOLOGY, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: The way we put our P&L's together, the regional bank is the branch system and approximately 80% of its revenue is just the NII on customer deposits. We do not book home equity loans there, we do have some small business loans, not a ton, and a few miscellaneous ones. So, deposits are up nicely but the credit given for deposits has been on a long slide down. Some of the credit is short term rates, a lot of it is a lag because these are core deposits that are invested over time and that continues to overwhelm the deposit growth.   

WALTER SCULLY: Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: The spreads were down by about 40 basis points, less than 200 basis points at this point. The next question?   

OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Glenn Shore of UBS. Please go ahead with your question.   

GLENN SHORE, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, hi Dina. I think we didn't get specifics on the merger announcement, but I don't know if there's been quite that much time in between, I wonder if you might comment on, one, the over limit list. Obviously credit's improving and you're being more on the portfolio management but there are certain names out there that are still over limit, the new limits and then, two, if you've gotten your arms around any commercial loan overlap between the two organizations?   

DINA DUBLON: I'm going to ask Don McCree to address both questions.   

DONALD H. MCCREE III, MANAGEMENT, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: We continue to make very good progress on the concentration issues we've had, I'd say we've taken the name by name concentrations down by about 2/3 this year. We continue to work those down over the balance of the first half of the coming year, in terms of overlaps that are created by the Bank One combination, we haven't gotten into granular detail yet, we do have some concentrations that we'll be working with them on, once the deal closes. That will probably take us several years to work ourselves down together with our client base. I will point out that this is a much smaller issue in a deal with Bank One than, obviously we've had in any of our previous transactions.   

GLENN SHORE: Fair enough, and just to be clear, Don, the first number last quarter was a half, right? So there has been some serious progress this quarter?   

DINA DUBLON: That's exactly right.   

DONALD H. MCCREE III: And the progress has been more dramatic as it relates to capital at risk versus books more at risk. The risk book is improving quicker than the actual reductions.   

GLENN SHORE: Actually, that leads into the next question I had on the average allocated capital at the Investment Bank, that 11% sequential drop, is that 100% attributable to the commercial loan book or is there some trading components there as well?   

DINA DUBLON: No, it's 100% in fact the commercial credit book, it's larger than the total reduction in CIB capital.   

GLENN SHORE: Got you. And then the last question is --   

DINA DUBLON: One too many, here, Glenn, but go ahead.   

GLENN SHORE: No, no, go ahead. I don't want to be a hog.   

DINA DUBLON: We'll come back to you.   

GLENN SHORE: No problem.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Aaron Caddell from Blaylock & Partners, please go ahead with your question.   

AARON CADDELL, ANALYST, BLAYLOCK & PARTNERS: Hi, good morning, Dina, maybe you got this question from Mr. Harris from the board at some point before last week's announcement. But what's your view. Do you feel you're sort of leaving something on the table because you're finally after a couple years returning to a more normal pattern of earnings growth looking out to '04 and '05? Or are you concerned there with would be just sort of tough comps from fixed income trading and mortgage that would make it harder to continue to grow the company without a deal?   

DINA DUBLON: No, this is a strategic deal, it does not enter into the context of what do we expect '04 earnings versus '03 earnings to be. So no, that is not the context in which we evaluate the deal. The context is a much broader one, we have discussed it, the long term. One has more balanced earnings mix, and the recognition that we needed to have much more skill in retail to be able to succeed effectively. That's the context in which those conversations are entered into. No, we don't feel that this was, I guess your question, bad timing in a broader sense, this is, again, a long-term transaction for the benefit of the shareholders.   

AARON CADDELL: Okay, thanks, that is helpful. Secondly, the reduction in private equity, you continue to review that portfolio, will that be put on hold while you match up yours versus Bank One's or will that continue preclosing of the merger?   

DINA DUBLON: No, we will continue. I do want to highlight, though Eric, that going-forward, what we are doing is we have a large portfolio that has been waiting, putting in quotes, "harvesting". We haven't been able to sell out of the portfolio with very low level of activity in the last two years of -- in the last two years, so the way we are reducing the portfolio is seasonally having more sales and a somewhat slower pace of investments.   

AARON CADDELL: Okay, great, thanks very much.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Andy Collins with Piper Jaffray, please go ahead with your question.   

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning. Great quarter. Just in terms of the loan demand, I wonder if you could touch on corporate, middle market and consumer and kind of what we're seeing in those areas?   

DINA DUBLON: Make a comment, I am passing it on to Don to discuss middle market and we can go on from there.   

DONALD H. LAYTON: Alright. Middle market loan demand has been flattish for some time now, reflecting the economic conditions not just in the U.S. generally, but we're obviously concentrating mainly in the New York area, which is not a high growth area in the U.S. So that has been flat, and I say continues to be maybe small growth going-forward. Consumer can be an interesting mix of the card business had lower than historic growth in 2003, because of the aforementioned, the average household got cash in the door from mortgage refinancing, they were able to carry lower balances on cards. We expect that to pick up in 2004 from just a lower magnitude of refi growth.   

In terms of the mortgage business, we secured ties with the vast majority of our originations that will continue. The loans we have on the books will be driven more by the warehouse and pipeline of things passing through us than it is permanent hold.   

DINA DUBLON: Dave, do you want to comment?   

DAVID A. COULTER, INVESTMENT BANK, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE BANKING, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO: This is Dave Coulter, on the large corporate side, we definitely saw loan demand pick up as we went into the end of the year, and that seems to be continuing well into the first quarter of the year. In terms of numbers, we did $195 million in loan syndication fees in the 4th quarter, that was up from 125 in the 3rd quarter.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay and just in terms of that, you know, how much is one transaction and are we seeing kind of a broadening of the loan syndication activity.   

DAVID A. COULTER: We're definitely seeing a broadening of the loan syndication activity. Don, you may want to give a little bit of color, but I'd say we're seeing things broadening across the board, we are seeing some big transactions come back with bridge deals to capital markets, we like that.   

DONALD H. LAYTON: Yeah, this is Don, I'll just add, it's quite broad in terms of geographic mix and type of transaction. You probably will see our on balance sheet loan growth grow more slowly than you will our syndications activities as much as this is being put into the marketplace.   

ANDY COLLINS: Okay, and just one other question on this -- on the merger, is the 500 million and the 300 million you referenced, absent the funding costs, really the only numbers we should focus on for '04 earnings?   

DINA DUBLON: Well, those are direct results of the merger. Whether it's the only numbers you should focus on, I don't know. But they are the two numbers that are the results of the transaction in terms of, again, estimate of impact for the second half of '04.   

ANDY COLLINS: Sure. I mean, we could throw in numbers for cost savings and revenue, synergies but to be conservative, that would be the right way, right?   

DINA DUBLON: Right.   

ANDY COLLINS: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Guy Moscowski of Merrill Lynch, please go ahead with your question.   

GUY MOSCOWSKI, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. I recognize that maybe it's far too early to ask this question, but as we start to model the merged entity, have you given some thought to how you will display things like the regional banking business once you take in Bank One which tends to include in the regional bank business, all of the lending assets? Are you going to continue to have regional as just a deposit business basically, as Don was discussing, or are you going to change your disclose ours significantly?   

DINA DUBLON: We haven't made a determination on the exact aggregation levels and, you know, how are we going to portray businesses going-forward as a combined firm, we'll be communicating as we do make those decisions.   

GUY MOSCOWSKI: Okay. That's fair. And then just a follow-up question, in a completely different area on J.P. Morgan Partners. Can you just remind us what type of assets you'll be looking to invest in that business over the next two-years in terms of your own capital and funds that have been raised?   

DINA DUBLON: You know, we are -- the private equity business looks across multiple assets, so it has a percentage that goes into venture investments on the margin that's smaller of all. It has -- it looks at leverage buyouts, it would look across industries. We're not looking to inning crease this investment in third party funds, but otherwise, the group is operating under diversification guidelines, both across asset classes as well as industries.   

GUY MOSCOWSKI: And still, obviously, within the context of trying to get down to 10% of the combined capital of the organization?   

DINA DUBLON: That's correct. Again, increase the percentage of others coming in and investing with us is increasing.   

GUY MOSCOWSKI: Great. Thanks very much.   

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Katherine Murray of Newburger Burman. Please go ahead with your question.   

DINA DUBLON: Hi, Katherine.   

OPERATOR: Katherine Murray, your line is live, please go ahead with your question.   

DINA DUBLON: We seem to be having problems.   

OPERATOR: We'll go to the next question. Our next question is coming from Riley Tierney of Fox-Pitt Kelton. Please go ahead with your question.   

RILEY TIERNEY, ANALYST, FOX-PITT KELTON: Hi, I have a couple questions. One, I just wanted to get a sense of if there was any MSR recaptured during the quarter, it seems like the valuations in the MSR were up quite a bit -- about 202 basis points, and I wanted to note if that was just interest rate related or how do the mechanics work there? Secondly, I wanted to know if you have any exposure to [CARMELOT]. It seems like you don't because your NPAs went down and additionally, you essentially have almost zero commercial charge offs, is that correct?   

DINA DUBLON: We tried very hard not to comment on individual borrowers, obviously our results reflect any exposure as we would have had to [CARMELOT] and I prefer to leave it at that.   

Your first question relative to MSRs, as rates rise, you will have a revaluation in the write up of the MSR balance, I don't think there was anything unusual. I think the major driver of the increase in MSR balances is the fact that we have less of them running off. So as we are booking new business, more of it is causing an increase in the balance. What you see in the quarter is the actual balance went up to $470 billion. It went up the prior quarter as well, but not by as much. What you're seeing is the impact of lower prepayment rates, there is probably also on the margin some impact from rates, but there is nothing different in the valuation methodology applied. Across, you know -- between quarters.   

RILEY TIERNEY: Okay. Just one other question. It seems like you actually reduced significantly the value of the public securities portfolio during the quarter. Have you guys been trying to take advantage of the rally in the market to sell positions are these where a lot of the gains came from? You also seem to have made a lot of progress on reducing some of the dollar investments in a number of the other areas, the private fund investments.   

DINA DUBLON: Yeah, I presume that you are referring to the public securities portfolio of J.P. Morgan partners?   

RILEY TIERNEY: Yes, yes.   

DINA DUBLON: And we have generally, and we are allowed to sell positions, things in many of the situations we are restricted from selling, as we are allowed to sell, we are selling -- we are in a position to be where the market value of the public securities is about two times the cost basis of those securities, and where they are being carried on the book as a discount. So my memory of this would be that the market value of those securities is about $1 billion or close to $1 billion. The cost basis is about 500, and we're carrying it on the books it's about 650 or so. So yes, we are selling it when they become unrestricted and have done so and will continue to do that.   

RILEY TIERNEY: Okay. Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Mike Mayo of Prudential. Please go ahead with your question.   

DINA DUBLON: Hi, Mike.   

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: How much did you make from the Kinko's and the venture capital portfolio? The second question, are there any special expenses in the fourth quarter and -- I'll leave it at that.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay, you know, our share of Kinko's will generate a gain in the 1st quarter when the transaction closes that it's approximately $150 million. Approximately. Your other question was?   

MIKE MAYO: Expenses.   

DINA DUBLON: Expenses, if there was anything unusual in the fourth quarter, there is always unusual stuff in the 4th quarter as we're closing the year. I made a comment early on, relative to expenses that we had an adjustment for a full-year incentives that closed in the quarter that reduced expenses from what they would have otherwise been.   

MIKE MAYO: How much was that?   

DINA DUBLON: We are not being very explicit about that. It's less than 200 million. I believe we can say.   

MIKE MAYO: Okay. So, I'm sorry, so relative to normal expense rate, expenses were lower to that by 200 million or some fraction of that?   

DINA DUBLON: Some -- it's been an amount that's approximately there. It's between 150 and 200 million and, again, this is obviously related to the revenues in the quarter as well. So you can't possibly look in an investment bank, you cannot possibly look at one raising expenses without looking at what's happening on the revenue side at the same time. But yes, your comments still have value. The run rate for '03.   

MIKE MAYO: I did have one last question on the merger. When you look at the cumulative capital generation, the chart you had, and you take the 3 1/2 billion a year on buy backs, you wind up with $400 billion with excess capital leftover, after those three years, I was wondering why you had all that excess capital left over, is that just a cushion in case you're projections are wrong, or do you think you will use that extra capital not for buybacks but for acquisition? What's your thought with that?   

DINA DUBLON: We want to have a very strong balance sheet and continue to improve in our ratings.   

MIKE MAYO: Any progress in the ratings?   

DINA DUBLON: I think the progress you have seen in all three rating agencies announcing a very positive view on the merger with some of them obviously wanting to wait for further on in the execution before they will move on the ratings, but all of them have put either us or Bank One on positive watch. If you get the upgrade, what would be the earnings benefit. I think you have gone one too many. Well follow-up with others.   

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: If I can have the next question?   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Ron Mandel of GIC, please go ahead with your question.   

RON MANDEL, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, Dina. Hi, I have two questions, actually, one in regard to commercial credit costs, you know, you -- I think you said earlier, at least I wrote down that you said you thought commercial credit costs would be higher than they were in '04 than they were in '03, and compared to the benefit of 249 for the quarter, if I added right, it was a 49 commercial credit costs for '03?   

DINA DUBLON: Yeah.   

RON MANDEL: And so, why would it be higher if you still have room to reduce the reserve, I guess, would be my question.?   

DINA DUBLON: Because we are not looking to continue reducing the reserve to the same extent we have reduced in '03. The reductions in '03 are driven by the fact that many of the losses we recognized in '03 were provided for in '02.   

RON MANDEL: Right.   

DINA DUBLON: So that is the driver of the reserve reduction in addition to obviously the overall improvement in the credit rating in the portfolio. We are looking for having low commercial credit costs, but not as low as $60 million for the year. And I'm not, you know, will not go beyond that in terms of attempting to project a number.   

RON MANDEL: I guess where I was going with that, do you think it would be possible that the actual charge offs --I know you referred to significant recoveries in this quarter without elaborating, but it was saying there's further room for declining gross charge offs, so the net charge offs could be quite low anyway?   

DINA DUBLON: We are looking for continuing reductions in net charge offs when you're comparing '03 to '04.   

RON MANDEL: Right.   

DINA DUBLON: So yes, we are looking for overall better credit quality of the portfolio, but are not expecting commercial credit costs to remain between 0 and $50 million but to go higher.   

RON MANDEL: Okay. My other question was also on share repurchases, you had on slide 20 of the presentation last week you said you were going to be buying back $3 1/2 billion in '04 and '05. Are you changing that now if you're not going to start repurchases until midyear, or are you going to accelerate it all in the second half?   

DINA DUBLON: As I mentioned before, I don't think I can be more specific than that at this time. What we have in place is Bank One continuing with the repurchase activity of the first six months of the year, and us, as a combined firm, again assuming the closing the deal at midyear, and after the combined firm resuming repurchases in the second half and, you know, I--we still believe we ought to be able to execute on about $3 1/2 billion for the purchases on the year, but --   

RON MANDEL: I see, so, in other words, that 3 or 3 1/2 is the combination of Bank One on their own and then --   

DINA DUBLON: Absolutely.   

RON MANDEL: And then the combined.   

DINA DUBLON: Yes. Yes.   

RON MANDEL: Okay. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Katherine Murray of Newburger Burman. Please go ahead with your question.   

KATHERINE MURRAY, ANALYST, NEWBURGER BURMAN: Can you hear me?   

DINA DUBLON: Yes, I can.   

KATHERINE MURRAY: Good, thank you. The global treasury revenue, you mentioned why that was down, I wonder if the level now in the 4th quarter is kind of representative of this rate environment or if there's anything special in this quarter?   

DINA DUBLON: I think revenues were unusually low in the 4th quarter, we would be looking generally, you know, at the lower level than what we went in '03 but higher than what we happen to have as financial revenues in the 4th quarter.   

KATHERINE MURRAY: Okay and then separately, the trading bars seem to be up pretty much across the board in the quarter, I was wondering if you could give us a color on that?   

DINA DUBLON: David, do you want to comment?   

DAVID A. COULTER: Trading bars were up in the 4th quarter versus the rest of the year, that reflects, in large part, the way some of the markets as we approach the end of the year, the especially the rate markets on a global basis. We are a big rates player on a global basis, the way things were moving in concert. We also had more equity activity in the 4th quarter and it reflects that broad base equity activity. You'll note the, Katherine, that in the portfolio diversification site, we have more portfolio diversification, so net-net equity -- it's a positive as we look at our business today, but nothing unusual. We're still working well within the limits, nothing unusual in terms of that bar increase.   

DINA DUBLON: The only addition I would have to the comment that David just made is that this is picking up on the trading bar, and we have increase -- when you look at the aggregate bar, and again, we will be discussing that in the annual report or in the K as opposed to in the press release, The aggregate bar for the term, since the increase here in bars is primarily risen by equities, the diversification we've other positions in the firm as such that the aggregate bar for the firm is really just marginally up from where we were in the prior quarter.   

KATHERINE MURRAY: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Brock Vanderly of Lehman Brothers, please go ahead with your question.   

BROCK VANDERLY, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you very much. I wanted to talk about the card business a little bit. It doesn't seem to be any of the positive seasonality we saw among some of your competitors, I was wondering if you could just comment on that?   

DINA DUBLON: I am sorry, Brock, could you repeat the question? I wasn't paying attention, I apologize.   

BROCK VANDERLY: I was wondering why we didn't see more seasonality to the plus side in the card business in Q4?   

DINA DUBLON: Sorry. Don, please?   

DONALD H. LAYTON: Yeah, we haven't been able to analyze all of the competitors, some seemed to have fared worse and some better, our best guess right now is in fact the refi boom cash coming into the households.   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. Next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from David Stumpf of A.G. Edwards, please go ahead with your question.   

DAVID STUMPF: Thanks. A follow-up. On page five of the supplement, you all provide a line of business, highlight summary, and you have got the support units and corporate line item, I understand there was some reclassification in that line, but aside from that, just on the numbers that you did provide, obviously a pretty big contribution to the bottom line from that line item, and could you give a little detail on what is flowing through that line this quarter?   

DINA DUBLON: Sure.   

DAVID STUMPF: That may touch a big contribution? Number one, and then, number two, is there still guidance there that that number or is it actually going to be a drag on earnings versus the contribution?   

DINA DUBLON: Okay. We did -- we have said earlier this year that we have had this project of cleaning up much of what has been undistributed losses in the corporate center as part of our various MIS policies in the firm and we have done much of that through year end. I think it's more informative with respect to the corporate undistributive sector rather than focusing on the quarter to look at these for the year as an indication of what the level is going-forward that will come in from the fourth quarter for the moment. So we have done that clean up and will generally expect the corporate center again on this stand-alone basis, will need to do it again when we merge, but on a stand-alone basis it should be relatively neutral, i.e. close to positive, close to zero, a little bit negative, et cetera.   

The big drivers in the quarter, and to some extent in the next year or for the quarter is the fact that we had as I mentioned earlier in the call, lower tax rate in the quarter than flows through corporate undistributed that benefits, we also have moved some acquisition in which we had over allocated capital to the businesses and, therefore, had negative capital in corporate, which results in our MIS system with negative net interest income in corporate.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay.   

DINA DUBLON: We moved from that position into a position in which we have, close to 4 to 5 billion in excess capital sitting in corporate, which is now generating net interest income.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay.   

DINA DUBLON: So that is the, you have, those are the two large factors, the other things that will affect the corporate -- is what we've referred to as being the residual reserve, or the residual provision this quarter, it was a -- we reduced the residual reserve, so it was a negative -- it was a negative credit cost or an addition to the bottom line. I guess is what I'm trying to say.   

DAVID STUMPF: Right.   

DINA DUBLON: So there are certain items that are particular overall for the year, and you will see the number is pretty close to being positive, but pretty close to zero, and I would expect that to be the range for next year.   

DAVID STUMPF: One follow-up. Mike Mayo's question that he didn't get to answer. Any best guess on if you did get a rating upgrade, what sort of earnings benefit might you see?   

DINA DUBLON: I don't want to, in a way, speculate on the earnings benefit of an upgrade. We are in businesses that are sensitive to ratings, and regard continuing improvements in the rating of the firm as one of our priorities.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay.   

DINA DUBLON: So I would prefer to leave it at that.   

DAVID STUMPF: Okay. Thanks, Dina.   

DINA DUBLON: I would like to really wrap-up the call. Thank you all very much for participating this morning. We are very excited about the merger with Bank One, and look forward to continuing discussions with you for the remainder of the year. It does feel much better to be here talking to all of you about good news. Thank you for your support.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your line at this time and have a wonderful day.   

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]   

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]   

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040204e01l000p5
  


 HD
 Q3  2003 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,475 words
   PD
22 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the JP Morgan Chase third-quarter earnings conference call. Your host for today will be Dina Dublon, Chief Financial Officer of JP Morgan Chase.   

Today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JP Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in the quarterly and annual report of JP Morgan Chase & Co. filed with and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission Internet site,   http://www.SEC.gov  to which reference is hereby made.   

   TD
(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS).   

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Dina Dublon. Ma'am, you may begin.   

DINA DUBLON, CFO, JP MORGAN CHASE: Thank you very much. Good morning. I am Dina Dublon. Welcome to our third-quarter investor call. I would like to welcome here to the call. I have my colleagues, senior members of senior management, David Coulter is here with us, Don Layton, Don Wilson, our Chief Risk Officer, and Don McCree and others of senior management available to answer your questions.   

I am really pleased. For the third time in a row this year, we have good news. Results for the quarter and year-to-date were up significantly from last year, and I want to talk about three important dimensions for which we show improvement.   

We have lowered the risk in both commercial credit and private equity. We had a strong earnings rebound much beyond the commercial credit improvement, and the third as we continue to have gains in market share across the Investment Bank, many of our operating services or deposits in the retail bank.   

We have upside potential from the impact of the continuing recovery on many of the other engines of the business, including corporate finance, custody and resale businesses, and we still have the recovery of JP Morgan's partners with (inaudible).   

And moving to slide two. Earnings of $1.6 billion in the quarter were up 400 percent from the weak third-quarter last year. Year-to-date earnings were up 80 percent. Relative to last year, results were driven by a strong revenue rebound, 13 percent for the quarter and 15 (ph) percent year-to-date, a much, much lower commercial credit cost.   

Expenses were up at a lower pace than revenue. Compared to second-quarter, earnings were down 11 percent, driven by declining revenue but continuing improvement in credit. Earnings per share were 78 cents for the quarter, $2.35 year-to-date. Return on equity for both the quarter and the nine months was 15 (ph) percent compared to 8 percent last year.   

Moving to slide three, we made significant progress this year, lowering risk in commercial credit and private equity. Commercial credit risk capital in the Investment Bank is down over 30 percent since the beginning of the year. We are actively managing the portfolio. We sold higher risk loans and commitments and put on new single named credit (inaudible) swap hedges in total for $11 billion in exposure. We continue to review single named concentration measured by capital interests or the number of names over threshold.   

Loan sale, reduced marketing and increased refinancings in the public market drove the decline in commercial loan. On a comparable basis, commercial loans are down $20 billion from September last year and $14 billion, or 15 percent, in September. This is part of the long-term trend accelerated by the weak loan demand. We may see some rise in loans when demand picks up.   

Same quarter (inaudible), which we adopted this quarter, adds about $11 billion to the commercial loan balance for GAAP purposes. Most of this is fully collateralized commercial paper conduit, which we expect to restructure and deconsolidate in the fourth quarter.   

The private equity portfolio continues to come down at $7.8 billion at September 30. It is more diversified across industry sectors in this geography with a higher percentage invested in more mature leveraged buyouts and lower percentage indenture investments.   

On slide four, the non-performing asset trend on the left shows the peak of the cycle in the third quarter last year of $5.5 billion in non-performing, nearly 50 percent higher than where we are now. The improvement is all in the commercial portfolio.   

Not on the slide, the pipeline into non-performing assets, criticized exposure rated CCC or lower show the same trend -- a peak in the third-quarter last year and now quite a bit below 2001 levels. We expect the declining trend to continue, though at a slower pace.   

On the right, we show total managed net charge-offs of $1.1 billion comparable to the second-quarter. Commercial charge-offs were $260 million and are still at the high-level, generally, though, for loans previously reserved for.   

We reduced the allowance for credit losses by almost $400 million this quarter to $5.1 billion, resulting in total credit cost of under $700 million. Consumer credit costs were about equal to charge-offs. Commercial credit costs were negative $140 million. In other words, a benefit to the bottom line.   

Problem credit has been sold or restructured, and risk rating has migrated (inaudible)-- requiring -- I emphasize -- requiring a lower allowance. The residual components of the allowance (inaudible)-- is our policy maximum of 20 percent of the total. Continuing improvements in credit quality will result in a further reduction to the commercial and the residual reserve balances, and the provisions made, therefore, remain negative.   

I go to slide five. The Investment Bank earnings of $920 million for the quarter or 15 percent off a strong second-quarter, but up from a loss of the third quarter last year. Return on equity was 19 percent.   

Revenues of 3.2 billion were down about $1 billion from the second-quarter and up about $700 million from the third quarter last year. For the quarter and year-to-date, we had positive operating leverage with expenses up at about half the pace -- I want to emphasize half the pace of the revenue rebound.   

Trading revenues drove the (inaudible). Investment banking fees contributing to the lean quarter decline. I will come back to both.   

Global treasury financial revenues of $370 million were down 40 percent from both comparable quarters as security gains were passing (inaudible). Year-to-date global treasury's financial revenues were up almost 30 percent with realized security gains exceeding $1 billion as we repositioned in advance of the rising rates. The investment portfolio is smaller and so is the contribution from net interest income.   

Total return revenues were higher and up from prior periods. Total returns mark-to-market -- I put that in quotes -- both the investment security portfolio and the offsetting positions of the other side of the balance sheet.   

For example, the value of deposits increased this quarter as the value of securities declined. Total return is a better measure of the economics for interest rate risk management.   

Year-to-date performance for the Investment Bank was strong. Revenues were up 24 percent with expenses up 14 percent and credit costs down significantly. Earnings of $3 billion almost threefold the nine-month period last year.   

Year-to-date return on equity was 20 percent. We have positioned well for risk in the first half of the year. The declines from the second-quarter still (inaudible) steeper. On a year-to-date basis, we had both strong revenue growth as well as improving credit.   

And on slide six, trading revenue. Trading revenue. Trading revenue for the quarter was $1.3 billion within our normal range of $1.2 to $1.6 billion (ph). It is down 40 percent from second-quarter and more than threefold the third-quarter last year.   

Client revenues were up in record in what is normally a seasonally very slow quarter for us. They had averaged $950 million per quarter since the merger. The third-quarter this year was well above the average. They are steady and a growing revenue stream. The 11 quarter trendline growth is in the high-teens.   

Non-client portfolio management or risk-taking revenues were positive but well below the average, primarily due to positions taken in rate markets in Europe and Asia that performed poorly. They had averaged $500 million over the period and are more volatile. Average trading VAR for the quarter was almost $70 million, up from the second quarter with increased market volatility but down from the year ago quarter.   

And on slide seven, investment banking fees were $640 million, down almost 20 percent from the second quarter and up 20 percent from the third quarter last year. They are flat on a year-to-date basis, which is better performance than most.   

Debt underwriting fees of $300 million drove the decline from the second quarter in line with the decline and loans indication market volumes to a lesser extent public debt underwriting.   

Equity underwriting and advisory fees drove the increase from last year. On a year-to-date basis, we gained market share in both. The arrow in the lead table chart indicates ranking changes from full year '02.   

Highlights of some of them are key deals, we advised Emerson, when it recently announced $10 billion sales to GE, the largest Trans Atlantic deal this year. We served as financial adviser and lead arrangers to Ripplewood's 260 billion Yen acquisition financing on Japan Telecom, the largest ODO ever in Japan and in Asia.   

We were (inaudible) coordinator and joint bookrunner (ph) of 1.3 billion euros of (inaudible). We have some pickup in equity underwriting. We are cautious. The advisory and underwriting pipeline is down from June, though generally not less reliable as an indicator. Overall the tone of conversation with clients is better.   

Moving to slide eight. Chase Financial Services earnings of $460 million were down to about half the level of prior quarters. While we are disappointed with the results, the return on equity of 20 percent shows this trend of the core franchise. Year-to-date revenues and earnings were up. The business is having a very good year even when compared to the strong results in 2002. Year-to-date ROE is 31 percent.   

Both the decline this quarter and the year-to-date increase were dominated by home finance. I will come back to that.   

Touching on the other businesses, year-over-year growth of 1 percent in card has slowed, and higher purchase volumes were offset by lower cash advances and balanced transfers, partially due to the more mortgage boom. Cash revenues combined with higher credit costs led to lower income, down 11 percent, though up 19 percent from the second quarter.   

Auto had very strong originations and a 30 percent increase in revenue from last year. Deposits are up 18 percent from a year ago, and our market share trend were positive. Total expenses at Chase Financial Services were driven by higher mortgage production volume. Overall credit quality is stable with card charge-offs down from the second quarter and up from the third quarter last year.   

On slide nine, revenues in our mortgage business of $660 million were down from both prior periods. Year-to-date revenues of over $3 billion were a record, up almost 40 percent from last year. We split total revenues into operating revenues and revenues associated with hedging of servicing rights. This includes the amortization and total re-evaluation of MSRs (ph) and all related hedges, whether in trading income or fair value or in the securities portfolio.   

In the quarter, we had a small net loss of $6 million MSR management, not bad performance, but about $250 million less than prior quarters. Year-to-date $300 million is still higher than the prior year. All other operating revenues were down $40 million or 6 percent from last year.   

We had a significant increase in net interest income associated with higher warehouse loan balances which was offset by under-performance in hedging the pipeline in warehouse and allowing customers rate losses extensions in a rising rate environment did cost us money.   

Relative to the second quarter, the large revenue drop captured a swing from gains in pipeline hedges to a loss. Originations in the quarter were a record $93 billion, more than 2.5 times last year. Application volumes have declined 40 percent to $60 billion this quarter, the same level as the third quarter of last year. Declining applications have increased by competition.   

We are, again, not counting on outside gains from mortgage service hedging, but we are also not predicting a repeat of the pipeline hedging performance we had this quarter.   

And on slide 10, we had good results in our other businesses. Treasury and Security Services earnings of $160 million were up 25 percent over the second quarter and down from last year. Most of the decline from last year is related to a gain on the sale of Fidel last year.   

Like in prior quarters, growth in treasury services and institutional trust offset weakness in Investor Services, our custody business. For Investor Services, revenues and earnings were up on a late quarter basis. Return on equity for the business was 24 percent for the quarter and 20 percent year-to-date.   

Investment management and Private Banking earnings were $85 million, up about 25 percent from both prior periods. We had year-over-year revenue growth for the first time since the merger. Net inflows in the quarter were at the highest level in almost two years driven by retail and Private Banking.   

The pretax margin improved to 18 percent from 15 percent in both comparable quarters. Assets under management of about $530 million (ph) were up from the second quarter this year and for the third quarter last year.   

On slide 11. JP Morgan Partners had private equity gains over $120 million this quarter. The direct portfolio had gains of $160 million, positive for the second quarter in a row. Write-downs in the private portfolio were offset by write-ups related to weak capitalization at levels higher than our book value.   

The third-party funds portfolio had a loss of $40 million associated with our continuing divestitures. Year-to-date we have reduced the portfolio by almost 25 percent to $1.4 billion. About $200 million in contracted sales remained on the books until the closing in the fourth quarter. We will continue to look for opportunities to sell.   

JP Morgan Partners had a $10 million bottom line this quarter, marking its first earnings since the merger, and I am taking a moment to appreciate this.   

The business may be turning. Realizations are still low, but write-downs are slowing. We won't see consistently positive earnings until sales activity picks up. The M&A environment is still slow.   

And on slide 12, so how does it all add up? Nine-month earnings per share of $2.35 is up 80 percent versus last year's operating EPS. Return to shareholders was almost 50 percent through September 30. The question is, what is the potential growth from here? We took advantage in the first half of the year of the unusual market opportunities in fixed-income and in mortgage, but strong results can mask the underlying growth in many of our businesses in 2004.   

The third quarter does not include these above trend gains, nor does it include the high real estate and litigation costs we had earlier this year, though it does have its own of the abnormal pieces like negative commercial credit cost, which we expect to continue in the near-term.   

The $2.35 we earned in the first nine months annualizes to about $3.10. For 2004, we expect to see a different mix of earnings that will count on a higher level of earnings only when we have greater confidence in this trend of the economic recovery. We have upside in investment banking fees and equity underwriting. Investment management and custody are turning or have actually turned. JP Morgan Partners has (inaudible) -- more room to grow. We have stable growth in retail businesses. We do understand that re-evaluation of the stock will take consistent execution over a longer time span.   

So in summary, we have come a long way this year. We are seeing improvement in performance and the significantly lower risk profile. We are delivering value to our clients, tapping into the experience and innovation across the firm. The franchise is stronger than a year ago. It has higher market shares across most of our businesses from advisory and equity to deposits and cash management or trust services. We need consistent execution. We are very focused on how well we will sustain our performance in a challenging economic environment.   

So thank you, and I would like to open it up for questions.   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Your first question is coming from Mike Mayo of Prudential. Please go ahead with your question.   

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC.: Hi, it's Prudential Equity Group. Can you elaborate more on the trading results? It looks like they are down, and I am guessing due to less proprietary trading. How much was proprietary trading this quarter? More generally, I think it is the first time you disclosed a slide that shows proprietary trading as 34 percent of total trading. That seems perhaps double the brokerage peer group average. Can you elaborate on the risk you take there and what happened this quarter?   

DINA DUBLON: I am going to pass on the question to David Coulter, who will comment on your numbers and overall (inaudible) revenue.   

DAVID COULTER, VP, IMPB, INVESTMENT BANK, JP MORGAN CHASE: For ease of discussion, I will talk about the trading and trading NII line of the income statement. We also like to talk about total return revenues because that does pick up the largest -- that does give us a more complete picture of our trading overall because it includes treasury and asset and some of the commission revenue.   

In terms of trading and trading NII, it does not look like it was down; it was down from the second quarter of last year of slightly over -- or second quarter of this year -- slightly over $2 billion dollars down to about 1.3.   

I think the first perspective is the second quarter of this year as was the first quarter were extraordinarily strong, and we were able to take advantage of that. The proprietary opportunities in the third quarter were tougher, and frankly we did not take advantage of them. But it was a period of very volatile interest rates, and I think the business as we also controlled risk during that period of time.   

I think the important point we are making and why we are breaking apart client versus non-client revenues is that underlying our very large trading business is an extraordinary client base of investors that in as long as markets could rise or fall, but as long as there is volatility, provide a very solid base of earnings to us.   

Client revenue was practically all of our trading revenue in the third quarter of the year. We provided some data on the 11 quarter average, which is probably the better way to look at it. 950 in terms of client revenue over the last 11 quarters and 500 of proprietary revenue. I am not quite sure the numbers you are referring to on client versus non-client. Overall, when you look at the overall Investment Bank for the year-to-date numbers for us are about 1/3 non-client and 2/3 client for revenue.   

DINA DUBLON: That does include obviously the treasury practice which is hedging overall the corporation.   

DAVID COULTER: We do have a couple of other people who might like to make a comment about trading revenues and fixed-income.   

MIKE MAYO: The 1/3 of proprietary trading revenues, are you comfortable with that as a range, or would you want that to be less in time?   

DAVID COULTER: Total revenues -- 1/3 nonclient and 2/3 client for us.   

UNIDENTIFIED: We have chosen as the terms for clients and non-clients very (inaudible). Just intensely what we do (inaudible) we trade with clients is to estimate what the client value is at the time of that transaction. We have defined this process over the years and are pretty comfortable with the aggregate value over time.   

Non-client revenue is everything else. Some of that is discrete proprietary risk-taking that either comes out of this great proprietary risk-taking groups and the treasury of proprietary trading or this great proprietary risk taking upon (inaudible) consumer equity public making debt. Some of that, also though, is the gains or losses that we generate above or below what we estimate the client value to be.   

On average, those have been gains, and from the third quarter, those were gains, which suggests to me, and this is certainly part of our strategy, we are (inaudible) risk takers off our market-making platform because of the client value. So the $500 million on average of non-client revenue we generate is to some degree dependent on the client revenue we generate.   

What we referred to in the third quarter was for the discrete risk that we take in many given places of the Investment Bank. We do not generate gains on that discrete. Discrete risk-taking in aggregate is (inaudible) proprietary risk-taking. We did continue to retain all the client value as we estimated at the time of entering into the transaction and a little bit more. So we consider the performance to be okay, but we clearly failed to capitalize on the volatility in the third quarter in terms of our discrete risk taking.   

DAVID COULTER: In terms of your direct question, are we comfortable with the mix of a 1/3, 2/3. The answer is yes, although we are also doing everything to continue to build our investor base of non-client revenue. That has been as Dina has described as client revenue -- that has been on a very nice upward track with very low volatility since the merger.   

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Robert Albertson, Sandler O'Neill. Please go ahead with your question   

DINA DUBLON: Hi Robert   

OPERATOR: Your next question is coming from Glenn Shaw of UBS. Please go ahead with your question   

GLENN SHAW, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Thanks very much. I guess more on the capital front. Obviously offsetting items on both sides of (inaudible) quarter, the 15 percent ROE, is that more a representative number going forward? More importantly, capital ratios I think are building nicely the last couple of quarters. Tier 1 is better. Is there a specific target you had in mind? With theoretically fixed-income being less of a capital trend on a go forward basis, where does that capital start to get allocated because that other bucket starts to grow probably?   

DINA DUBLON: We feel very good about the build out in capital ratios. You know, we will be considering what the right options for us are. As I indicated earlier, when we go into 2004 and continue to build on the sustainability in earnings that we have had this past year. There was one more point you made, Glen, about the 15% ROE.   

GLENN SHAW: Right.   

DINA DUBLON: What I would say about the 15 percent ROE is that itis difficult for us to be producing at meaningfully higher levels than that until we see a recovery in J.P. Morgan Partners, so J.P. Morgan Partners was break-even this year but is not yet producing a return on the equity investing, you know, excluding J.P. Morgan Partners, the return for the corporation is closer to 18%. So, 18 -19%.   

So 15% represents good results for the firm across the board when you look at the returns for each of the businesses, whether it's the investment bank, year-to-date at 20%, whether it's the retail bank, it's all the other businesses.   

GLENN SHAW: OK. Fair enough. Following on Mike's question on the trading line, just to be clear, first and second quarter represented great opportunities to deploy firm capital, and were there just less opportunities in the third quarter, or were there some adverse actions? What I'm really just trying to get at is for the investment bank as a whole, even if you normalize credit to whatever you want to pick as normal, the ROE is somewhere in the range of 16-is percent, which is pretty good Are you comfortable with the trading number as a more normalized number?   

DAVID COULTER: Glen, this is Dave Coulter again. I guess we have given some guidance that we think trading and trading NII lines for us will range somewhere between $1.2 billion and $1.6 billion per quarter. The first half of the year as you point out had volatility but clear trends, and that was a wonderful environment to take advantage of. We are at the lower end of that range in the third quarter of this year. There was plenty of volatility in the third. It was less clear where that volatility was heading, and we did not take advantage of that. I think in terms of what we expect going forward is why I continue to point to the client line.   

I think the client flow we have in a market whether it's going up or down that has volatility to it puts us right around the bottom of that trading range, and I think we will have opportunities to continue to take advantage of in a -- basis. So I don't think it will be as favorable as the first half, but I still think there will be good opportunities for us.   

GLENN SHAW: And the last question, the comp ratio at the investment bank following with the drop, is that a true-up for the year, is that a function of revenue mix base basically?   

DINA DUBLON: Look at the comp to revenue ratio really on a full-year basis, I think we shouldn't get hung up on a particular quarter.   

GLENN SHAW: OK. Fair enough. Thanks.   

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Aaron Kadell of Blaylock & Partners. Please go ahead with your question.   

AARON KADELL, ANALYST, BLAYLOCK & PARTNERS: Hello. Good morning. I was wondering if you could provide a little more color on asset management in private banking as well as treasury and security services which had pretty good results and specifically on the margin outlook for treasury and security services. Thanks.   

DAVID COULTER: I'll start off with investment management in private banking. We do feel good about the results there. We feel like we're on the right leg of a V-shaped curve as markets have turned, as you've seen the results of a very good focus on expense control in that business. We saw pre-tax margins grow to 18% in the third quarter. As Dina pointed out, assets under management are up about 3% from the second quarter of the year. Importantly, assets under supervision are also up to over $700 billion.   

Besides, the market improving the results in the third quarter, we had net new actual flows in assets under management in the third quarter. So we've said in the past that our target for this business in terms of pre-tax margin is 25% to 30%. We are moving in the right direction. I don't want to tell you, it's going to be an absolute straight line, but I think we're seeing pretty good dynamics in that business.   

DINA DUBLON: We are looking to continue to improve in the fourth quarter.   

DON LAYTON, CHASE FINANCIAL SERVICES, JP MORGAN CHASE: Yes, this is Don Layton. TSS had a good recovery quarter after a few tough quarters behind it, with earnings up nicely in and the ROE up to 24%. I don't regard this as an above trend quarter. I regard this as a returning towards normal level of earnings of this business. Primarily, Investor Services, IE, custody business has been depressed for some time between depressed market values which affects their revenues and the low level of interest rates which also affect their revenues.   

The whole business is undergoing a lot of productivity efforts and efforts at expansion in terms of revenue, and it's starting to pay off, as well as some of the market values returning, although I should note net interest income is still down because interest rates are still down, so there is up side when interest rates come up. Underlying it all, though, the other two businesses are quite strong, and I will mention the already announced acquisition of the corporate trust business of Bank One, which is expected to close during the fourth quarter, and that will be another help for revenue growth for next year.   

AARON KADELL: As well as expense reductions? Do you have any sense of that right now?   

DON LAYTON: Well, the corporate trust versus bank, has drawn in clearly as a transaction as an overlap type transaction and the premium we were willing to pay them above the net asset value is obviously related heavily to expense overlaps, so the answer is, if you add the two up, the expenses we'll have will be considerably less than the two together, yes.   

AARON KADELL: OK. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Brock Vandervliet of Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead with your question.   

BROCK VANDERVLIET, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks. Just digging into CFS a bit, could you talk about your variable expense ratio or some way of getting at the expenses? Clearly expenses did not step down this quarter. I understand the hedging loss, but what's on target to attempt to reduce expenses given the presumed decline on the top line?   

BILL WINTERS, INVESTMENT BANK, JP MORGAN CHASE: Well, unfortunately it is very hard to have a simple economic model when it's five very different businesses. Let me attempt to just provide some guidance here. First of all -   

BROCK VANDERVLIET: You could actually just limit it to home finance. That would be fine.   

BILL WINTERS: OK. Home finance by itself has a lot of complexity, though. Fundamentally, you have to take the risk-taking revenues or the risk-related revenues and market risk. That would be the servicing hedging results, and certainly in very volatile markets, the pipeline warehouse hedging results. They will bounce around, and so just like other areas, if it's a very good quarter, your overhead ratio will look wonderfully low, and if they have a bad quarter, it will look high. Unlike the investment bank, you can't just change the comp to dramatically offset down the expense side, so you're going to have to neutralize for that.   

Remind me on that, you should look for these things to broadly be in line going up and down, but there are significant lags because revenue is not directly related in a single month or quarter to the expense associated with production and getting things through the pipeline as revenue acquisition occurred at certain time, so you can have a lag. That is what you will have this past quarter where production in what we have been closings are very high, and have expenses, but not all the revenue comes in at the closing date. When you get back to more equilibrium, you'd have-- I'd say you have more of a typical model of a fixed overhead ratio.   

DINA DUBLON: I think overall, the underlying message here is as originations come down, expenses will come down and we are already managing the expenses down and have taken action with respect to a lower level of applications that we have seen in the quarter going into the fourth quarter.   

BILL WINTERS: We are shrinking actual cash expenses. I do note that FASB 90 or 91 -   

DINA DUBLON: Don't go there.   

BILL WINTERS: Does require some capitalization accrual of these things, so there is a lag involved.   

BROCK VANDERVLIET: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Ruchi Madan of Smith Barney. Please go ahead with your question.   

RUCHI MADAN, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hello. A couple of follow-ups. First on the proprietary trading comments, I just wanted to ask, on the non-client revenues of $500 million in the past 11 quarters, how much would you say is the discrete proprietary risk-taking versus just a benefit that you get from the flow?   

DON LAYTON: I don't want to evade the question, but the continuum between risks that we take related to a client transaction versus risk that we take on the back of the general information -- that we're in, and then into proprietary trading that's somewhat remote, it is a continuum, and trying to break that $500 million down into the sub places, we could take a guess, but frankly it wouldn't be particularly helpful overall. So I wouldn't hazard a number to throw out.   

RUCHI MADAN: Is it typically less than half?   

DON LAYTON: In the third quarter of this year, yes.   

RUCHI MADAN: No, not the third quarter. The past 11 quarters. No, I would say typically the preponderance of what we call trading revenue is either directly or indirectly related to our client.   

DINA DUBLON: Less than half, I think, is a good way to look at it.   

RUCHI MADAN: OK. Then totally separate follow-up, in the Investment Management unit, you mentioned a few times that you've had positive flows. Can you be more specific about how much?   

DON LAYTON: Hang on.   

DINA DUBLON: Mid flow number is about $3 billion. It's primarily in retail and Private Banking.   

DON LAYTON: Right.   

RUCHI MADAN: And this that was this quarter, not year-to-date, right?   

DINA DUBLON: No, that's this quarter.   

DON LAYTON: At this quarter.   

RUCHI MADAN: OK. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Henry McVey of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.   

HENRY MCVEY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Just two questions for Dina. One is, you made a comment about, on the mortgage pipeline, that you didn't think you'd have the hedging problems again. Is that outlook on interest rates or did you change your policy? And then second, you talked about it looks like the residual is about 20%, which is I think at the high end. When were you giving the outlook on commercial credit, is this quarter, is this indicative of where we're going, or could it be better from these levels in terms of reserve releases?   

DINA DUBLON: Let's go first to Don.   

DON LAYTON: The thing that is transitory was the very large market disruption during the middle of the third quarter. That was a one-time event, very large both in terms of rate moves and in terms of spread. Please note we use fair value accounting for that kind of hedging, so it's a, basically a mark to market. While I will be having some examination done to make sure our hedging works well, on a year-to-date basis, the over performance outweighs the under performance, so it's not a big problem, although this is obviously a problem in the third quarter.   

HENRY MCVEY: Right. I was just trying to figure, did you guys change anything or -- it says -- on the rate lock extension policy?   

DON LAYTON: No, no, no.   

HENRY MCVEY: OK.   

DINA DUBLON: So, it's really a business -- with respect to your question on the reserves, just very briefly, really I'll repeat what I had tried to say earlier which is, with continuing improvement in commercial credit, we should continue to see negative provisions for commercial credit, and we'll need to be reversing the residual reserve because it's already at the policy maximum of 20%, so again, we have a, policy that keeps the residual reserve between 10% and 20% of the total reserve. And as we continue to reduce the allocated piece of the reserves, we will need to be reducing the unallocated piece as well.   

HENRY MCVEY: OK. That's what I wanted. Thank you.   

DINA DUBLON: Which we did not do this quarter.   

HENRY MCVEY: Right.   

DINA DUBLON: OK.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Walter Scully (ph) of platinum investments. Please go ahead with your question.   

WALTER SCULLY, ANALYST, PLATINUM INVESTMENTS: I just had a question on actually acquisitions and your management team has talked about potentially doing acquisitions at some point. I just wanted to understand a little bit better why. And is it really that you see opportunities to create value out there more so than you've seen over the past year or few years, or that your goal is really to rebalance the portfolio?   

DINA DUBLON: Let me make a brief comment on that. We are focused on creating value from the businesses we have, so the focus of the management team is totally on managing better on executing on what we have, and producing better returns and better risk, returns over time. We are not blind to opportunities that are out there, and in that sense, we'll be paying attention to any developments. We are not looking to do any large acquisitions.   

If we were to, you know, the context for which one has such conversations is one of re-balancing the portfolio of businesses into a, into something that is less correlated to the rest of our businesses. So that's the context in which one more theoretically discusses the benefit of an acquisition in the firm, yes.   

WALTER SCULLY: As we sit there now, though, would you rather just build capital or buy back some stock at some point just given that the odds of an acquisition creating a value over time seem pretty low. Do you lean one way or the other?   

DINA DUBLON: We are leaning towards managing what we have as best we can, and I think we have shown this past year a total commitment to doing just that, so the leaning of management is on creating value with what we have.   

WALTER SCULLY: OK. Thanks.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Andy Collins of U.S. Bancorp. Please go ahead with your question.   

ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFREY: Most of my questions have been answered, but I (inaudible) if you could touch briefly on loan demand, syndicate loans in particular, as well as perhaps if you could touch on consumer and just more broadly middle market, that would be helpful also.   

DINA DUBLON: OK. I'll have David and Don comment on that.   

DAVID COULTER: And first on syndicate loans, loan demand continues to be slow. I think syndicated loans were off 30% quarter versus linked quarter. You know, we're hopeful with the pickup in the economy here. We'll begin to see some further demand, but it is definitely a step by step increase in the economy.   

DON MCCREE, SENIOR CREDIT OFFICER, JP MORGAN CHASE: Let me turn to consumer middle market. Middle market, please remember we have our geographic concentration mainly in the New York area. Secondarily in Texas. These kind of loans definitely reflect the local economy, and the answer is they're not going anywhere. There is no particular strong loan demand, in fact it's slightly weak, which would affect the regional economy, mainly in the New York area.   

In terms of consumer loan demand, if you think hard, the answer is, the industry is having virtually no net loan demand as included, and we are up only 1%, if you adjust for bidding, 2 or 3, and Dina mentioned it, our best understanding is that in the economy, the major source of cash to households coming in from refinancing as we do see a demand for credit card outstanding balances.   

Transactional revenue card is doing fine. If you are talking the mortgage side, the demand is quite strong obviously, and not just the refi boom, but the home equity product industrywide is growing very rapidly as supplement to the cash flow. Again, I think that tends to hurt somewhat the card growth. And the auto business, we're doing great but that's largely a market share gain.   

DAVID COULTER: Andy I stood have made the press release the number I gave you, the 30% link quarter decline was for the market as a whole.   

ANDY COLLINS: OK. And also on syndicate loan as kind of a follow-up on that, do you think that's somewhat tied to M&A, and what do you think the net cause of the reductions are, and will we see a pickup next year if the economy is a little stronger?   

DAVID COULTER: I think it is definitely tied to M&A, and DO activity. You see that activity pick up, you'll see a pick up in acquisition finance. I think it's also tied to the flows we've seen in both the high grade and high yield markets in the first half, and a large number of borrowers taking advantage of those -- to clean up their balance sheet.   

DINA DUBLON: Thanks we have obviously benefited from in our --, so we have seen a reduction --, but we have seen an increase in underwriting fees.   

ANDY COLLINS: OK. Great. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from John Conti (ph) of Citigroup. Please go ahead with your question.   

JOHN CONTI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes. I noticed that the corporate loss declined substantially to just about $6 million this quarter, and just wondered what was behind that. Have you reallocated those expenses? And is that loss sustainable going forward?   

DINA DUBLON: Yes, it was -- we had almost no loss in the corporate sector this quarter. We had done earlier this year some further allocation of what has said in undistributed for a period of time. It's the first -- you know, last quarter we had, for example, provisions for the unallocated reserves that go through the corporate sector this quarter which will give further some things which are timing that go through the corporate sector. The number is not yet zero. We will continue to do cleanup. It's somewhat unusually too low. The probable number in terms of residual things at this point is probably running to about the $50 million negative on an ongoing basis.   

JOHN CONTI: OK. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Nancy Bush of NAB Research. Please go ahead with your question.   

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Hi. Good afternoon. If you could just update us on when you expect to convert the Bank One corporate trust portfolio and what the metrics will be on your total corporate trust operation at that point?   

DINA DUBLON: We'll be closing the transaction just later this quarter, and the transition of the client takes a period of time. The metrics generally speaking is the metrics we use internally, we would be looking at what our expectations (inaudible) in paying a premium, and then seeing whether we are making those expectations or not, it is a very rigorous process post acquisition to be looking back and seeing whether we have or haven't produced what has justified paying of the premium we have talked about the premium generating overall for us very high rates of return in coming up with the price.   

NANCY BUSH: Have you disclosed a number on the rate of return?   

DINA DUBLON: No, we have not disclosed the internal rate of return calculation.   

NANCY BUSH: OK. If you could just -- one of the metrics that I was asking for was just sort of the size of the corporate trust portfolio overall assets under administration at that point?   

DINA DUBLON: I don't have it off the top of my head, but that is the number that we can get back to you through the investor relations area post the call, so please feel free to call. We have disclosed the level of revenues that we are acquiring, and that will obviously be an increment of revenues going into next year.   

NANCY BUSH: Great. Thanks very much.   

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Henry McVey of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.   

HENRY MCVEY: It's answered. It was just about the corporate other. Thanks.   

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Robert Albertson of Sandler O'Neill. Please go ahead with your question.   

ROBERT ALBERTSON, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning.   

DINA DUBLON: Good morning, Robert.   

ROBERT ALBERTSON: The speed bump you had in late July, early August in the bond market obviously was the area, Iguess, in your non-client trading. I'm wondering if during that period, you experienced super low client flow business because they were reacting to it in the sense that actually benefit. I guess what I'm getting at is, are these two segments some what mutely offsetting at times?   

Second question, debt underwriting outlook, you know, we've had a very strong market. Is it important for you, some sense that it may be winding down because the rate attraction has softened? He just wanted to know how comfortable you are with the future of that. And just fairly quickly on home finance, do you think this is the bottom in terms of what you're going to earn quarterly for the next two quarters?   

DINA DUBLON: I'll ask Bill Winters to comment on the first part of your question and probably Don on the second.   

BILL WINTERS: Certainly part of the reason that we had very strong client revenues in trading lines in the third quarter was what we call super normal activity around the intense volatility in the interest-free market. Although that isn't what drove that strong client quarter. I think what drove the strong client quarter was more of the sense that the interest rate cycle had turned in line with the ongoing trend that hasn't broken, which is towards the around tightening credit rate. Keep in mind our risk take something pretty well - and our clients' risk take something - across interest rate currency credit and equity, commodity prices, all of which had volatility, most of which had trends which persisted during that period even as interest rates turned.   

On the debt underwriting side, we've seen decreases year on year for our at least linked quarters for the past 18 months in the high-grade securities markets. That's commercially offset by increases in the --markets -- improving economic environment, and we've seen decreases in syndicated financing as Dave Coulter mentioned earlier.   

Our outlook going forward is for continuations of those trends as interest rates stabilize at this level or increase, there will be ongoing pressure on volumes in the high grade market, but if the economy improves, there will be ongoing underwriting growth in the high yield market, and in certainly in the leveraged portion of the syndicated financing market.   

So on balance, we feel pretty good about the trends for debt underwriting, but the composition clearly shifts as interest rates and the economic environment changes.   

DON LAYTON: One comment Robert, I guess, just to add to that, there's nothing we'd like to see better than the bridge business pickup with zero related financing out there.   

BILL WINTERS: In terms of whether this is the bottom, I guess I know enough to never say something is exactly the bottom since you never know what's going to happen, but I think you can say that our view is the mortgage performance was disappointing, ie, we expect better from it in the next few quarters.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from David Stumpf of AG. Edwards.   

DAVID STUMPF, ANALYST, A. G. EDWARDS: Good morning. Just a couple of specific follow-ups to the mortgage area. Number one, can you give us the level of the mortgage warehouse at quarter-end? Number two, the MSR allowance at quarter-end. And then three, did any of the positive mark on the MSR this quarter fall to the bottom line, or was it all offset with hedge losses?   

BILL WINTERS: The last one is easiest to answer. We have Dina's slide on the mortgage company, Chase Home Finance showed the -- I guess I'm looking at page 9, MSR hedging, that is -- in your words, that was the increase in value of the servicing offset by the hedging items as accounted. The answer is, it was totally offset.   

DAVID STUMPF: OK.   

DINA DUBLON: Your first question was about the level of warehouse. I think it's about $20-odd billion.   

DON LAYTON: $22 billion at the end of the quarter.   

DAVID STUMPF: OK. And then the MSR allowance?   

DINA DUBLON: I don't know the number off the top of my head. Do you have the number here?   

DON LAYTON: $1.4 billion.   

DAVID STUMPF: OK. All right. And then just a quick follow follow-up to the questions on corporate other. Obviously this quarter were great performance and much better than the run rate of the last few quarters. Dina, did I understand you to say that one of the big swing factors there was the provision for the unallocated reserves, that runs through that line item?   

DINA DUBLON: Generally the provision for unallocated reserves is not allocated to the line to business, so it stays in undistributed.   

DAVID STUMPF: OK. And so that's one of the big swing factors there in the improvement?   

DINA DUBLON: That is one of the swing factors when you look at the second to third quarter, comments I made earlier about reductions in the unallocated reserves to the extent of continuing improvement in the commercial portfolio means that the undistributed sector will have a positive running through it, going forward, which is somewhat unusual. I wouldn't count on it for a long period of time, but we do expect it for the near future.   

DAVID STUMPF: OK. That's very helpful. Thank you.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Mark Paterson of NWQ Investment Management. Please go ahead with your question.   

MARK PATERSON, ANALYST, NWQ INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT: Yes, I wanted to clarify a response to an earlier question related to capital. On your sheets, you show your capital in excess of required capital of about $7.3 billion. It's larger than it's been in quite a while. The risk-based capital looks stronger. And with your comments about loan demand and the commercial side still being weak and I guess certain residential activity set to slow, it seems that excess capital pace will pick up from here.   

You guys, dividend payment is already pretty healthy pay out ratio wise, and you spoke about no large acquisition. Why is it that you wouldn't be resume ago buyback at this time?   

DINA DUBLON: We would be considering the resumption of the buyback in the context of 04 earnings. We have been saying throughout the year that we wanted to build up our capital provision against a backdrop of the weaker economic environment. That's what we have been doing, and I, the overall trend in the firm are trends of delivering risk, whether it's in the commercial credit portfolio or whether it's in the private equity portfolio, we are levering the firm from the concentration that we had to date, and that provides a further support for us considering repurchase activity.   

We do have in the fourth quarter an acquisition that is closing with the premium of about $700 million. So that is absolutely something we will be considering in the near future.   

MARK PATERSON: OK. One other follow-up on the employee count that went up for the first time in a long time as well, just slightly in the investment bank, down in a couple of the other businesses, but what's your outlook for the employee count going forward?   

DINA DUBLON: We are not looking for really any substantive increases for reduction in most of the investment bank whole sale areas. I mean, on the margin, we are making strategic hires, but we are not looking for an increase in the work force. In retail, we have kind of trends in different businesses. We will be looking for some reduction in the mortgage side, as Don as talked about, and otherwise in the other businesses, we are not contracting.   

So I think to have different parts of the firm going through somewhat different trends. Treasury and security services is generally on the margin going up. Obviously with the acquisition and continued growth in the business. I would like at this point to wrap up the call.   

Thank you all for joining in. I appreciate your interest. I would like, again, to restate the summary for the quarter and year-to-date, which is we have come a long way. We are delivering value to our client both through experience and innovation across the franchise, and we are very focused on consistent execution. Thank you very much.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a nice day.   

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]   

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]   

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031105dzam0013u
  


 HD
 Q2  2003 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,074 words
   PD
16 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the J.P. Morgan Chase Second Quarter 2003 Earnings Conference Call. Your moderator for today's conference will be Marc Shapiro, Vice-Chairman of Finance and Risk Management,  

Today's conference call may contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations for J.P. Morgan Chase's Management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties.  

   TD
Actual risks may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31st, 2003, and in the 2002 annual report on Form 10-K, each filed within the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Internet site,  http://www.sec.gov, to which reference is hereby made.  

At this time all press and media are on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation.  

At this time if you do have a question, please press the number one followed by four on your touch-tone phone.  

It is now my pleasure to hand the floor over to your host, Mr. Marc Shapiro. Sir, you may begin.  

BILL HARRISON, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Good morning everyone.  

This is actually not Marc Shapiro. This is Bill Harrison and I want to welcome all of you to our quarterly investor call.  

We are very pleased this morning to report strong earnings, which I believe are beginning to reflect the earnings potential of the firm, and I'm going to have Dina and all of my colleagues, of course, talk about that in just a minute.  

But before we do that, I'd like to make a few comments about some organizational changes that we also announced this morning. It started with the announced retirements at the end of the third quarter of Marc Shapiro and of Tom Ketchum. As you know, Marc Shapiro and I announced that he would be leaving some time this year and so that has been planned. The retirement of Tom Ketchum has also been in the works for some time, as Tom Ketchum and I had an understanding after the merger of Chase and Morgan, that he would get the technology platform in order over a couple of years and transition out. We feel very comfortable that that is in place and we will lose two great executives in Marc and Tom and we thank them for all they have done. But what I am most pleased about is that the talent depth of the Company allows us to not miss a beat here.  

We are asking Dina Dublon to continue her role as Chief Financial Officer reporting directly to me. I am very excited about that. I think Dina is as good a chief financial officer as there is in corporate America and I look forward to the relationship that she and I will have in this role. Don Wilson, who has been co-head of one of our most important businesses in the firm with Bill Winters, which is the Credit and Rates business, will become the chief risk officer of the firm and he'll have market credit operation fiduciary risk and he will also report directly to me with a link in to David Coulter for some of the risk issues with the investment bank.  

Bill Winters will take over the sole responsibility for Credit and Rates and as you know, that is one of the more important businesses in the Company. John Schmidlin will take over Tom Ketchum's role as head of technology and he will report directly to Don Layton. We will expand the Executive Committee by a net addition of four people, going from 14 people to 18 people to get more representation from some of the key functions and businesses. We're also creating an Office of the Chairman which will be myself, Don Layton, who runs Chase Financial Services as you know, and David Coulter who runs investment banking and IMPB.  

This reflects the important jobs that both of these people have and allows, I think, us to focus even more so on sharpening the governance processes and execution in the Company. So those are some important management changes. We won't miss a beat with this, as much as we'll miss Marc and Tom, and we're all excited about the organizational alignment going forward.  

So with that, Dina, let me turn it over to you.  

DINA DUBLON, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here reporting on a very strong quarter. Reported earnings were up significantly. We had revenue growth of 20 percent and the return on equity of 17 percent, which is really the highest we have seen since the merger. In the investment bank we had strong trading results, improved commercial credit and for the first half, market share gains in M&A and equity.  

In Chase Financial Services we had again record results from exceptional performance, again, in the mortgage business. Market depreciation on the public portfolio of J.P. Morgan Partners, as well as higher cash realized gains, led to a smaller loss. We continue to reduce exposure there. We are in advance stages of discussion with regulators on resolution of all regulatory matters on Enron and expect them to be resolved within the next 90 days. Expenses include a 100 million addition to our litigation reserve.  

Higher retained earnings allowed us to build capital and our liquidity position is strong. Line of business operating results reflect the revised internal management reporting policies that were disclosed in the 8-K that was filed last Friday, July 11th. Prior periods have been [Inaudible] so all [Inaudible] this quarter are to the new MIS.  

I'm on slide two.  

In 2003, we have no difference between operating and reported results. Earnings per share for the quarter was up 50% from the operating results last year and up almost 80% on a reported basis. Earnings per share increased 30% over first quarter. First half results were up almost 40% from last year and 60% on a reported basis.  

I'm on slide three.  

The increasing earnings was driven primarily by the strong rebound in revenues from all prior periods. Revenue was up 7% from the first quarter and 20% from the second quarter last year. For the first half of the year, revenues are up 16%. Expenses are up as well, though at the lower rate.  

Credit costs were down over 20% from each of the prior periods driven by improved commercial credit quality. Return on equity was 17% for the quarter and 16% for the first half.  

I'm on slide four now, showing investment banks' results. And I'm following the lines of the income statement.  

Revenues of $4.3 billion were up 35% from the second quarter and 5% from the first quarter. Fixed income capital market and global treasury were up from a very strong first quarter, benefiting from a favorable environment. Securities gains were at comparable levels over the last four quarters. I want to point out that less than 50% of the firm's security gains are in the investment banks. The remainder are gains related to write-downs of mortgage servicing rights in the mortgage business.  

In equity capital markets we had higher equity derivatives trading. Credit portfolio revenues were down about 30% from prior periods, reflecting the impact of narrowing credit spreads on mark-to-market hedges. And relative to the prior year, it also captures the reduction in commercial loans.  

Total trading revenues were comparable to the first quarter and 80% higher than last year. Trading VAR, value at risk, was approximately $60 million, comparable to the first quarter and down from $80 million in the second quarter last year. Overall client revenues were up 6% from the strong first quarter of this year.  

Expenses included high litigation costs, as well as the $100 million additional litigation reserve, and over $100 million in vacant real estate charges. Excluding those expenses, we are up only 2% in expenses from the first quarter and less than 13% from last year against a 35% revenue growth.  

In credit, we took our medicine as we saw problems developing. Charge-offs this quarter were adequately provided for in earlier periods. The quality of the portfolio improved with few new problem credits, leading to no loss provision, or actually negative $4 million of credit costs in the IB, in the investment bank. In total for the firm, commercial and residual credit costs were $100 million.  

Earnings of $1.1 billion more than doubled from the second quarter of last year and were up 15% over a good first quarter. Return on equity was 22%, and the overhead ratio inclusive of all charges was 68 percent. The increase in client revenues is very positive, yet for the second half, we have seasonally slower months, and expect fewer opportunities for trading and treasury profits.  

I'm now on slide five. These link tables compare first half results to full-year '02. We maintain leadership positions in all areas of focus and increase share in mergers and acquisitions and equity. Investment banking fees increased 20 percent on a linked quarter basis driven by strength in underwriting, equity, loan syndications and debt, but M&A and equity volumes remain at historically low levels. Our share of wallet has been improving.  

I will highlight two important deals in the quarter, excluding Microsoft. The first is we completed one billion recapitalization for Domino's, in addition to refinancing their existing debt. It was the largest dividend finance in the high-yield market, capitalizing on our leverage finance platform, and our relationship with the client and its sponsor, Bain Capital.  

Note in the first half, link table yet, we solidified our position as a top equity link house with the four-and-a-half billion euro convertible bond offering for KFW into Deutsche Telekom, the largest ever equity link offering by any issuer globally.  

I'm moving to slide six, showing the results of our retrial business, Chase Financial Services. The business continues to set records, revenues of four billion, earnings of almost 900 million, and return on equity of 41 percent. Revenues were up 17 percent over the second quarter and eight percent over a strong first quarter. Home finance, again, had record applications, at 107 billion for the quarter. It's three times the level last year, with June being a record month. This trend in the mortgage business will carry into the third quarter.  

Originations were 78 billion in the quarter.  

Risk management revenues of 230 million were up 100 million from a year ago, and 160 million from last quarter.  

Card revenues grew slightly from higher fees, also finance continues to gain market share and increase margin. Revenues in the regional banks, our branches, were about flat to the first quarter and down from last year, due to the lower rates.  

Income here in the regional bank was down over **50** percent from second quarter last year. The profits in Chase Financial Services are up 16% from last year, reflecting very strong growth in escrow balances, business balances, as well as customer deposits.  

Our consumer credit portfolio is heavily weighted towards time and continues to perform well.  

In sounding like a broken record, and eventually, will prove right, I guess, results in Chase Financial Services are not sustainable at this level. First half earnings of $1 billion at Chase Home Finance were higher than total 2002 earnings. With flat to slightly increasing rates, volumes will eventually drop off. For the second half of the year we see lower mortgage revenues with some offset from the seasonal pickup in costs.  

Moving to slide 7, J.P. Morgan Partners narrowed its private equity loss this quarter to $22 million, $200 million better than first quarter and $100 million better than a year ago. Gains in the direct portfolio of $120 million included both cash realized gains of $150 and unrealized mark to market gains of $150 million. Write-downs were high at $180 million. We have seen a modest pickup in activity but no visible turnaround yet.  

We took $145 million in losses in our third-party funds portfolio, including valuation adjustment on contracted fund sales. Total book value of the portfolio, as you see on this slide, was $7.9 billion which still includes $350 million which we have contracted to sell but have not yet closed. We will continue to reduce our exposure to the asset class.  

Moving to slide 8, showing earnings results for our other two businesses, Treasury and Security Services earnings of about $130 million were flat through the first quarter and over 20 percent lower than second quarter last year. Revenues were flat to up slightly from prior periods. Growth in Treasury Services and Institutional Trusts continue to effect weakness in Investor Services, our custody business. The return on equity, however, is still high at 18 percent.  

Investment Management and Private Banking earnings almost doubled from the first quarter but were 16% lower than last year. Revenues were up 6% on a linked quarter from the increase in equity market and for the first time in over a year, some increased activity. The pre-tax margin increased to 15 percent from 10 percent in the first quarter as expenses remained flat.  

Market depreciation more than offset Institutional outflows in the quarter. We continue to see an improvement in investment performance of core equity and fixed income, turning relative three-year performance stats positive. The impact of revenues is not immediate but will occur. Assets under supervision of almost $700 billion increased 12 percent from the first quarter.  

I'm on slide 9. [Inaudible] contracts revenue growth to expand growth rates for the firm. Total expenses increased five percent over first quarter and 17 percent over the second quarter of last year.  

Vetting out the severance and related charges of over $200 million and the $100 million increase in the litigation reserves provides a better read of underlying growth. For the second quarter we took $130 million and in the first half, $200 million of charges for vacant real estate, bringing it to current market rates so we can sublet or sell. This will reduce future occupancy costs. The most important driver of expenses was increased incentives due to higher revenue.  

We closed on the agreement with IBM and transferred about 4,000 employees and consultants to their payroll in April. About seven [Inaudible] categories.  

I'm on slide 10, the first slide here on credit, and ready to declare victory over the commercial credit cycle.  

The lowest rated non-investment grade exposures, criticized assets which are rated triple C or below -- again, those numbers include loans, commitments, as well as counter-party exposure. Criticized exposure is down is down 23% or almost $4 billion in the last six months. This is the leading indicator, representing the pipeline for problems. It peaked in the third quarter last year at close to $18 billion.  

The surprise for us here is the extent of improvement in merchant energy, which criticized there, down now to $700 million, half the level just three months ago. As you know, much of the stress for troubled sectors has been lack of liquidity.  

The strength in the capital market has enabled financing in the high yield and convertible markets, reducing the refi risks in the commercial portfolio. The inflow to criticize has slowed significantly, and existing problems are being worked out. Commercial non-performing assets of $3.4 billion are down 17% from the beginning of the year, driving the decline in total non-performing assets.  

I'm on slide 11.  

Commercial loan charge-offs are still high at 1.2% of commercial loans. Improvements here lag. But the charges were for problem assets previously identified and reserved for. That, combined with very few new problems and a decline in the pipeline, led to a reduction in reserves.  

Consumer charge-off ratios improved across almost all consumer products versus the second quarter. Relative to the first quarter, the card charge-off ratio of 6% increased slightly, six basis points, as higher bankruptcies offset lower delinquencies. The provision this quarter was $180 million less than charge-offs primarily in the commercial portfolio. Managed credit costs of 915 were down over 20% from both prior periods.  

We expect to continue to provision less than charge-offs. Overall credit costs should remain comparable to current levels.  

I'm on slide 12.  

With stronger earnings, the dividend payout ratio was down to 40% this quarter. Q1 increased to 8.5% despite the growth in assets and risks weighted assets. We've seen 46 effective in the third quarter. We may have $20 billion of assets in variable interest entities coming on to the balance sheet.  

We will continue to evaluate restructuring alternatives for the vehicles. Q1 ratio will not be impacting until next year.  

And summarizing on slide 13, strong trading and mortgage results and improving commercial credit will improve first half bottom line. It will moderate. We expect lower profitability and earnings per share in the second half of '03.  

The firm's risk profile has significantly improved and this trend will continue. Criticized commercial exposure has declined almost 30 percent since the peak. Commercial losses are high, but they're largely for known problems, and as you, as we have discussed with you, we are managing to much tighter limits and credit exposures will continue to decline. Consumer credit appears stable. The settlement will address all annual and regulatory measures; we'll be pleased to put it behind us. Siebel's suit will take longer to resolve. Exposure to private equity has declined and activity in the market is slowly coming back.  

Our franchise is benefiting from positive operating leverage and market share gains. We are well positioned as the environment continues to improve.  

Beyond 2003, as rates rise and mortgage revenues slow, we have some natural hedge in retail deposits. In the wholesale market, the potential upside from private equity and to pick up M&A and equity markets, including investment management, should offset a potentially slower environment for fixed income. We are confident in the long-term potential.  

Marc?  

MARC SHAPIRO, VICE-PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Thank you Dina. Just a few words. My feeling last year was that we had a, had put together a great franchise whose value was being obscured by a number of temporary problems; credit market, problems in private equity, decline in the capital markets, all paid a heavy toll on our reported earnings, and I think made the value of the franchise less apparent.  

It is clear that in the long run, what is necessary to succeed in this business, is scale, leadership position across a broad number of products, diversification, and a strong client roster and strong people. And it's certainly my belief that we have all of those ingredients that are necessary to succeed.  

The other problems are proving to be temporary. The credit cycle, clearly is at an end for us. In retrospect it was a very much one or two industry credit cycle, focused on telecommunications and to some extent cable. And as those, as that industry has worked through the end of its problems, and as we reserved early for our potential losses, it seems to be we're in a position where there's unlikely to be new problems emerging in the near-term future.  

Private equity will improve, both with continued write-downs that we've had and with the increased opportunities from pick-ups in IPOs and in mergers, which are normal exits for those.  

And finally capital markets activity is clearly picking up. We know that from our conversations with our clients and from the business that they have been conducting with us.  

So I think the future is quite bright. I have a tremendous degree of confidence in the two people that are succeeding me, Don Wilson and Dina Dublon, both of whom I've worked with for over 15 years.  

Don has been very involved in most of the key risk areas of the bank, in particular credit and market risk, and knows where the problems are, knows where the issues are, and has had a consistent view of addressing issues, raising questions that would go to risk to go across the bank in a very thoughtful way. Dina you know much better, who is really a great chief financial officer and will continue in that role.  

So my optimism about this Company has never been stronger than it is today and I feel terrific about the people and the franchise that we have.  

With that, we'll throw it open to questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. If you do have a question, please press the number 1, followed by 4, on your touchtone phone at this time. If at any point your question has been answered, you may remove yourself from the queue by pressing the pound key.  

We do ask that while you pose your question that you please pick up your handset to provide optimum sound quality. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, that is 1, followed by 4, on your touchtone phone at this time. Please hold while I poll for questions.  

Thank you. Your first question is coming from Mike Mayo of Prudential. Please go ahead with your question.  

MICHAEL MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES, INC.: Hi.  

BILL HARRISON: Hi, Mike.  

MICHAEL MAYO: The first question's on trading. I mean, your trading is just so strong. If you could just give us some more color, for example, how much is proprietary versus client driven and how much is fixed income related versus other areas.  

BILL HARRISON: OK, I'm going to ask David Coulter if he'll do that.  

DAVID COULTER, HEAD OF IMPB, INVESTMENT BANK, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Mike, on the trading side you're right; it was a strong quarter for us and we think of it in sort of client versus proprietary or client versus non-client side. That is roughly a 60 percent client, 40 percent non-client split for us in the second quarter. That's a little bit higher than we normally see. It's averaged anywhere from 75/25 to 60/40 and so we expect it to stay within that range.  

In terms of the fixed income equity split, I don't have that at the top of my mind here. It's in the--I guess it is in the operating income statement. We break trading revenue and trading NII down into, of the $2 billion, fixed income was roughly a billion nine, and equities was 155.  

MICHAEL MAYO: OK, great. And one follow-up on the management change. The new chief risk officer is Don Wilson, but won't he be overseeing some areas he used to manage? So the question goes to the independence of the new chief risk officer, from a structural standpoint not from a personal one.  

BILL HARRISON: Yes, Mike, this is Bill Harrison. I think that's a plus and not a minus. Don has had a lot of experiences in the organization over the years from credit to operational risk to market risk and he's a pro at all three of those. And to get that kind of experience into a risk job I think adds a huge amount of value. I see no conflict there at all.  

MICHAEL MAYO: And just one last follow-up. The Office of the Chairman, why did you decide to set up that structure now?  

BILL HARRISON: Well, as I said, I wanted to reflect the jobs that Don Layton and David Coulter have. They're running most all of the businesses in the firm and I needed a group to sharpen some of the business discipline in terms of review and financials of the Company around some of these key businesses.  

MICHAEL MAYO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Andrew Collins of U.S. Bancorp. Please go ahead with your question.  

ANDREW COLLINS, ANALYST, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY, INC.: Yes, good morning. Great quarter.  

I just wanted to ask you a couple of quick questions here. Reserve recapture potential? I mean, how long could this go on for? And could we at some point see kind of commercial net charge-offs at or around zero? I mean, how far did the regulators go and will they kind of pull back here?  

MARC SHAPIRO: Well, I don't think it's a regulatory issue; it's really just an accounting issue. And it depends on the inflow of new problems. Clearly, right now, we're going to continue to have some charge-offs from reserves that we have previously set up. The new charges for provisions and new problems will be dependent on the inflow of new problem loans, which, right at the moment, seems to be running at a very low pace.  

So I think the answer to your question is we'll see some reserve run down for a little while. Eventually, what you'll see is a much lower level of charge-offs. You'll recall that we went probably three or four years in the mid '90s with virtually zero credit losses and virtually zero credit costs. So how long that will last, I don't know, but it will last until we see the next credit cycle.  

ANDREW COLLINS: OK.  

DINA DUBLON: I do want to point out that commercial and residual credit costs were $100 million for the quarter. So for the investment banks it was zero, but overall for this firm it was $100 million. And I know it's confusing, but just to point out, this was not a negative number overall. It was a reduction in reserves, but overall the costs were not positive as they were for the IB.  

ANDREW COLLINS: OK. And the second question relates to your pipelines in the investment bank. Could you talk about syndicate M&A in equity, where you are on those and how that might play through?  

MARC SHAPIRO: David?  

DAVID COULTER: We did see an up-tick - I guess I'd answer it a couple of ways. First of all, in the second quarter we did see the IBC business, which is equity underwriting, debt underwriting, loan syndication, M&A business, and the pickup. We've been averaging about $200 million a month, and in the second quarter we averaged $250 per month.  

I think the pipelines are consistent with that increase in activity, although I caution you that, especially on the equity and the debt underwriting side today - I think you've heard this from other people in the industry - it's much less of an indicator, because people are making decisions to go to the capital markets and doing those overnight on an underwritten basis, and they never appear in the pipeline. And so I think you'll see that activity continue with regard to pipelines going forward.  

ANDREW COLLINS: Great, thank you. And a congratulations again on a good quarter.  

MARC SHAPIRO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Brock Vandervliet of Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead with your question.  

BROCK VANDERVLIET, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you. I was wondering if you could just give us some more detail regarding the Enron situation and how it seems like you may be able to successful short circuit what had looked like a very long process to resolve. Thanks.  

MARC SHAPIRO: I don't think we can give you much detail beyond what's in our press release. We're in the process of negotiating and working with all the regulatory bodies, and we're hopeful that that will come to a conclusion in the near term. But because we're still in that process, I think it would be difficult for us to comment beyond that.  

BROCK VANDERVLIET: OK. And a guidance question on JPMP. Can you update us with respect to guidance, your guidance earlier in the year with respect to that, and this is prior to the move in the markets, obviously, have been pretty conservative. Are you changing your stance now with respect to that business?  

DINA DUBLON: No. Not yet. We haven't seen a meaningful turnaround. You know, we are seeing a somewhat increased level of activity; you can see that in the increase in cash realized gains, but really what helped this quarter lot is mark-to-market gains on a much smaller public portfolio and we can't count on that repeating, or at least we don't.  

So you know, I still think we have a situation for the remainder of the year, which is one of negative revenues, until we are able to have a stronger increase in M&A activity for that portfolio in the IPO market.  

BROCK VANDERVLIET: OK, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Reilly Tierney of Fox-Pitt Kelton. Please go ahead with your question.  

REILLY TIERNEY, ANALYST, FOX-PITT KELTON: OK, I have two questions. First of all, you obviously had extremely strong securities gains in the quarter and it makes complete sense. But can you give us a sense of you know, just from a, our thought process, how should we think about what a normal level of those are and what that might be, as kind of a run rate going into next year, assuming rates move a little higher and the economy recovers a bit.  

BILL HARRISON: You know, I think you have to, it's probably -- it's hard to look at securities gains in isolation. I know that's how the model works, but the fact is there are really two parts to it. First of all, you've got a significant part of our security portfolio, which hedges our mortgage servicing rights and those we tend to realize gains there, when we have write-downs in mortgage servicing that offset that.  

Secondly, with regard to the investment bank, you really have to look at it in the context of a broader trading business. We are willing to take some trading risks around our asset and liability position. And from time to time those generate securities gains, they generate a positive net interest income spread.  

It's really a question of successfully running the treasury operation to make money. We've been doing that for 15 years, pretty consistently. We make more money some quarters than others, but you can't really just look at the securities gains part of it and isolate it from the rest of it. We do report the economic value, which is really the change in the mark-to-market value of that activity. And that's probably the best indicator and that's also been a reasonably consistent positive number over a long period of time.  

REILLY TIERNEY: OK, what about in terms of the trends in NPAs, you've had two, you know, outstanding quarters in a row in terms of NPAs coming down, and as you mentioned, a lot of it, especially this quarter was due to some unusually refinancing activity and merchant energy. You know, do you expect to see continued sequential improvements in commercial NPAs along the lines of what we've seen in the last two quarters going forward?  

BILL HARRISON: Don McKree is here, who's our Senior Credit Officer. I'm going to ask Don to respond to that.  

DON MCKREE, SENIOR CREDIT OFFICER, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: I'd say, first of all, a clarification, the improvement this quarter in NPA's was not necessarily caused by the improvement of Merchant Energy. We did not have much of our Merchant Energy portfolio in the non-performing category. It was in the criticized category, which is one step better than non-performing.  

As we do look out through the year, we definitely expect a continued trend as we're seeing it now in reductions and NPA's and may even see an acceleration on that reduction.  

BILL HARRISON: In general what I think what we're seeing is the liquification of the markets enables people to finance out a lot of the problems and that's something that appears as if it will continue.  

REILLY TIERNEY: OK, thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from John Quafi of CitiGroup. Please go ahead with your question.  

JOHN QUAFI, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes. I had two questions on your credit derivatives book. Number one, how large was the negative mark to market in the quarter and where does that show up in the income statement? And then secondly, are you taking advantage of the current environment with tighter spreads to further hedge your own loan book? I seem to recall earlier this year in your analyst's meeting you talked about that process taking a couple of years. Has that accelerated?  

BILL HARRISON: Yes, let me talk...  

MARC SHAPIRO: I'll take the...  

BILL HARRISON: ... I mean have the...  

MARC SHAPIRO: I'll take the second one. We are absolutely accelerating our hedging activities in the credit portfolio, taking advantage of more advantageous spreads and that's really across the board, both investment grade and non-investment grade, although it's primarily aimed at the large exposures in investment grade sector right now where there's a deeper market which affords us the ability to hedge. We did take some mark to market losses; I don't have the full quarterly number. It was about...  

BILL HARRISON: About $100 million.  

MARC SHAPIRO: ... about 100 million for the quarter in mark to market losses as the hedges lost value with spread compressions. And that was obviously offset by an improving credit picture overall and you'll see that in our trading line and we'll disclose that in the footnotes.  

JOHN QUAFI: OK, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Henry McVey of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.  

HENRY MCVEY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Just two questions. One, can you give a little detail on equity trading, was actually down sequentially and I was just trying to get my arms around that. And then second, Dina, I think you said in your comments that you expect provisions to be less than charge-offs and I just wanted to get a little bit more detail behind what --you know, in terms of percentages or how you were thinking about that to feel confident to make that statement.  

BILL HARRISON: Let's start with equity trading and Steve Black who runs our equity businesses is here and he'll respond to that.  

STEVEN BLACK, HEAD OF EQUITY BUSINESS, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Henry, our actual equity trading numbers were almost exactly the same the second quarter as the first quarter in terms of level of business. We took a $40 million EITF reserve on a couple of large derivative trades and that was the only difference in the numbers. So the activity levels and the revenue generated were exactly the same, but we did take the reserve.  

HENRY MCVEY: Yes.  

BILL HARRISON: With regard to provision, Dina?  

DINA DUBLON: You know, the reason for looking at the commercial reserves to continue to decline is the reasons we have been talking about which is a decline in the level of criticized, so it's an improvement in the risk ratings in the portfolio. And generally the loss is coming against previously identified problems, meaning we had already reserved for them in prior periods. So again, we have a pretty well spelled out approach on how we provide for credit costs and that approach [essentially] require us...  

HENRY MCVEY: Right. I guess what I was trying to get in, it looked like during the quarter that you let some reserves or you reversed provisioning on backup lines of credit and then you actually took some--you added to the, just the regular loan, it was 42 million or 58 million, something like that, is that right?  

DINA DUBLON: The reason we--go ahead Marc if you want to.  

MARC SHAPIRO: Yes, well, there isn't reserve for contingencies...  

HENRY MCVEY: Right.  

MARC SHAPIRO: ... which went down. The reason it went down is because the quality of that portfolio improved so there was a significant shrinkage in the lower risk graded commitment that were significantly reduced during the quarter. And, therefore, the reserve comes down. The same is true in the loan portfolio itself, where, because of the improvement in the overall quality of the portfolio, the reserve needs to come down.  

It is very different from where it used to be, when we built reserves during good times and drew them down during bad times. Now the SEC in particular is focused on the notion that when the portfolio deteriorates that's when you'll have to build up the reserves. And when it improves, you need to bring reserves down. And that's what we're predicting will happen.  

HENRY MCVEY: OK. I just wanted to get more color on that. OK - thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And, once again, ladies and gentlemen, if you do have a question, please press the number one, followed by four on your touch-tone phone at this time.  

Thank you. Your next question is coming from Steve Berman of Stein, Lowe Investment Counsel. Please go ahead with your question.  

STEPHEN BERMAN, ANALYST, STEIN, LOWE INVESTMENT COUNSEL: Thank you. Dina, or whoever, could you comment on the benefits in the treasury management area that you referred to in your comments? I mean, what exactly did you do? Were there some special positions you took, and what does that look like going forward?  

DINA DUBLON: Steve -- I didn't hear. In which area were you--  

STEPHEN BERMAN: Treasury. It sounded like you were talking about some funding positions you took that paid off handsomely in the quarter.  

DINA DUBLON: No. I think what Marc was trying to indicate is that this is an active - you know we don't take a position and sit on it for the quarter. It's an actively managed - actively managed against daily rules and interest rates. And generally for the quarter we were positioned for declining rates that happened during the quarter.  

We had significantly reduced, kind of moved to a neutral - probably more of a defensive position by now, in the sense that we don't - we are not looking for any further rate reductions from where we are. At the same time, we're not looking for any dramatic increases from where we are. So the position is more defensive than it was. But, again, it won't change next week or the following week.  

So I don't want to give the impression that that is the position for the next three months because that would be inaccurate. And I think all Marc was trying to say is that it's an actively managed area, as opposed to having some unusual events during this quarter. In fact, the return on a total return basis, which is full mark to market, they hedged all the liabilities in the firm, right? So if you look at the total return to liabilities in the assets, it's pretty comparable to where it was in the prior quarter.  

STEPHEN BERMAN: OK - thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from Mike Mayo of Prudential. Please go ahead with your question.  

MICHAEL MAYO: Hi. I just had a couple of follow-ups. How much in sales of MPAs did you have during the quarter? And, also, what was the high and low VAR for the quarter with regard to trading?  

DON MCKREE: Hi, Mike. It's Don McKree. On MPAs, I don't have the exact number, but it was not material. Probably around $50 million, I would guess at the high end. So it wasn't a significant item for us. I think, again, similar to the hedging comment I made, you will see us more aggressively selling assets into the cash market as prices appreciate on the back of the strength of the marketplace.  

MICHAEL MAYO: OK.  

DINA DUBLON: I don't know that we have the high end and low in VARs for the quarter. They were not unusual relative to the prior quarter, but I don't have them off the top of my head.  

MICHAEL MAYO: I think the high was around 85 million and the low was around 55 million.  

DINA DUBLON: Yes, I'll look for it. We might have it somewhere in the schedule, and if so I'll let you--  

DON MCKREE: I think that's approximately right. You know, again, our VAR is created by generally not by a conscious decision that we wanted to be x or y. We've got 1500 traders who take positions, all subject to limits and it's created out of those positions. If it gets to be too high, because we have an overall limit, we go back and tell the traders they have to adjust their position. But in general, it's created out of the decentralized decision making of 1500 different traders.  

MICHAEL MAYO: And then lastly, there's been a lot of chatter, your name's brought up with regard to acquisitions, could you just describe your current stance on doing deals and what the current priorities are?  

BILL HARRISON: Bill Harrison, let me comment on that Mike. We think we have a, as Marc said earlier, a broad-based of leadership position's global scale to compete against anybody. We think our primary focus today has to be on recognizing and maximizing the potential of the firm. So our focus is not today on acquisitions, it's on execution.  

MICHAEL MAYO: Thank you.  

DON MCKREE: And just to go back one moment on VAR, our VAR was lower this quarter than it was in the second, third, or fourth quarters of last year. So the short trading was often not a result of taking more risks. They were just results of taking risks better. And also a result of client activity, because a lot of our, most of our revenue really comes from client activity and the more client activity there is, the more chance there is to make money, in that line item.  

MICHAEL MAYO: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is a follow-up question from Brock Vandervliet of Lehman Brothers. Please go ahead with your question.  

BROCK VANDERVLIET: Hi. I wanted to just ask quick follow-up on the volatility within the corporate and support unit line. I know that was part of your restatement recently. If you could just give some color on that.  

DINA DUBLON: We have, we have begun a process, we haven't ended it, but we have taken a few steps this quarter to review the size of the undistributed corporate loss. Parts of this will stay there. What we are aiming for is reducing the negative shareholder value added in that unit. That unit does have negative equity, because the businesses are carrying under margin slightly higher amounts of equity than the equity of the firm. And that in itself creates negative bottom line. So I'm not focusing on negative income and focusing on negative shareholder value added.  

The reallocation was on many different items, but I would say the more significant, the more significant change this quarter relative to this was the tax rate, bringing the tax rate where the businesses to be more consistent with the tax rate for the corporation and the largest change was for investment management and private banking, where the tax rate that was reflected in the prior MIS for them was based on the fact that goodwill is deductible for tax purposes, even though it's not deductible in our financial statements anymore.  

What we have done this quarter is brought the tax rate of that unit to be more consistent with our financial results. And so the restatement lowered the earnings of investment management and private banking and reduced the loss in the corporate sector. We have more work to do there and we'll be doing that in the remainder of the year and will probably take some steps to redistribute that to the lines of business in the fourth quarter.  

BROCK VANDERVLIET: OK, thank you.  

BILL HARRISON: We'll go back one more time on VAR, I've got the numbers now. Maximum VAR on the quarter was 70 million and the minimum VAR was 44 million, and average was 56 million.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question is coming from David McVey of DSM Capital Partners. Please go ahead with your question.  

Mr. McVey, your line is live.  

I am showing no further questions at this time.  

BILL HARRISON: Thank you very much for your questions and your interest and we look forward to visiting with you again. Thanks so much.  

DINA DUBLON: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7g005kk
  


 HD
 Q1  2003 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,100 words
   PD
16 April 2003
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning ladies and gentleman, and welcome to the JP Morgan Chase First Quarter 2003 results conference call. Hosted by Marc Shapiro Vice Chairman of Finance and Risk Management. 

 As a reminder, today's conference call may contain statements that are forward looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon current beliefs and expectations of JP Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from these set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2002, of JP Morgan Chase and company filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission and available at Securities & Exchange Commission's Internet site at www.sec.gov to which reference is hereby made. 

   TD
 It is my pleasure to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Shapiro. Sir, you may begin. 

 MARC SHAPIRO, HEAD, FINANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION, JP MORGAN CHASE: Thank you very much and we appreciate all of you joining us on this quarterly conference call discussing our earnings. As has been our custom, Dina Dublon will give you a brief run through of the numbers highlighting the items that we think are important. I'll make a few comments, and then I'll be joined by several of my colleagues in responding to your questions. Dina would you like to proceed. 

 DINA DUBLON, CFO, JP MORGAN CHASE: Yes, good morning to all of you on the line. It's really nice to be here with some good news. We had, on slide 1. We had a strong rebound in investment banking results, illustrating the power of positive operating leverage. Income capital revenue reached the highest level in three years. 

 Commercial credit improved meaningfully from the trough. We achieved top 3 status in global M and A, global equity and equity link and global debt. 

 Chase financial services our retail business had 28% return on equity, driven by the continuation of the refinancing boom with low interest rates, record applications, and wide spreads. 

 JP Morgan Partners is still generating a loss due to limited exit opportunities and a high level of write-downs. We are cautious about the remainder of the year, as the economic uncertainty is high. 

 I'm on slide 2. In the past two years, we have had large differences between reported and operating results, driven primarily by the cost of executing the merger and late last year, the litigation reserves. First quarter earnings per share of 69 cents is 21% higher than our operating results last year, but 44% higher than reported EPS. For the rest of our presentation, the comparisons are to prior period's operating results. 

 And on slide 3, earnings for the quarter were $1.4b, return on equity 13%. Compared to the first quarter last year, revenues were up 12%, and expenses were up 9%. The positive spread is more pronounced relative to quarter 4, 12% versus 12% in revenues versus 1% expense [grow]. 

 Commercial credit costs declined from both periods last year, consumer credit costs were up consistent with the growth in consumer loans. 

 I'm on slide 4, looking at the drivers of revenue growth. The largest contributors are the investment bank and Chase Financial Services. $1b revenue growth between the two businesses compared to either the fourth quarter or the first quarter last year. J.P. Morgan Partners revenues are $200m more negative than quarter 4 about the comparable to the first quarter last year. 

 I want also to highlight other which is the residual undistributed corporate center. It has a large negative revenues and a large negative bottom line caused by internal transfer pricing policies, test rates to us and booking certain charges at corporate. We are committed to reducing the number this year. 

 On slide five, operating expenses, total non-interest expense is about flat to the fourth quarter, and 9% higher than the first quarter last year. Compensation expense is significantly higher, mostly because we have about $300m hiring [incentive] for improved revenues. In addition, for the quarter, we have $100m, and for the full year, about $400m more from expensing the compensation value of options, and from the reversal of stock grants with performance triggers. 

 Non-compensation expenses are flat to down, despite higher occupancy cost of $75m versus the first quarter last year. Non-compensation expenses this quarter are about $100m lower the ID of investment bank and about $100m higher in Chase Financial Services. 

 We continue to incur a high level of restructuring costs which are included in our operating expenses. For the quarter, it was $170m lower than the $500 million incurred in the fourth quarter, but still very high. 

 Included in the restructuring lines are $80m of real estate charges, as we have contracted the labor force, we have a high level of unoccupied space, and with a deteriorating market, we are recognizing a loss. For the full year, we are looking at restructuring costs of over $400m, including the potential for further real estate charges of the same magnitude that we saw this quarter. 

 For the full year, we are on plan for slightly higher expenses than we had in full year 2002. Except that higher revenues will obviously drive higher incentive compensation. 

 I'm on slide 6. Total commercial credit exposures which include contingencies, loans and counterparty exposure was $406b. 82% of that exposure is investment grade. 

 I want to note that non-investment grade exposure is down $25 billion, or 25% in the last 15 months. 

 On the left of the slide, criticized exposure, which is a subset of non-investment grade rated CCC or lower were down $2b from year end to $14.3 billion. We had $800m reduction in criticized merchant energy exposures to $1.4 billion, and we [won't] see more improvement in the second quarter in the this category. I also want to note a continuing reduction across all industries down to $7.5b from almost $10b, $9.8b, 15 months ago. 

 So the pipeline for problem credit is down. Yet we remain cautious about credit. We are not expecting a recovery yet, given economic uncertainty. 

 I want to note that criticized exposures are down $2b from just last quarter but still up $2 billion from last year. I also want to remind you all that we will be discussing the evolution of credit in the investment bank on May 7th from 10:00 to noon, so please join us. 

 The implications of the lower pipeline in problem assets are beginning to show up in nonperforming assets, nonperforming assets are down 8% in the quarter. 

 I'm on slide 7. Except for the surety settlement, we have not seen a decline in nonperforming assets for two and a half years. 

 Total credit cost of $1.2b include $1.1 billion relating to loans, and $.1b was added to the allowance for lending related commitment. 

 Commercial credit costs were lower than prior periods, and as I have noted, consumer credit costs stayed essentially flat to the fourth quarter, but were up over the year consistent with the growth in managed consumer loans. 

 I'm moving to slide 8 on capital. The tier 1 ratio increased to 8.4%, with assets staying fairly flat, and retained earnings growing. Our dividends payout was 50%, in a quarter that still has a loss at J.P. Morgan Partners, slow client flows in the investment bank, and no leverage yet from any stock market recovery. 

 My point is, with [care and] dividends some the payout ratio of potential earnings of the firm is much lower than 50%. We continue to manage the balance sheet tightly, deleveraging relative to commercial credit and private equity. Both asset classes will continue to decline. 

 In the third quarter, we will have to consolidate potentially $25b of assets in variable interest entities, based on scene 46. We continue to evaluate restructuring opportunities for those vehicles. 

 As we will be discussing on May 7th, we are revising our approach to allocation of capital for credit risks, taking a more market-sensitive approach in our internal pricing. This will lead to a significant increase in the attribution of capital to credit risk. We are also revising our approach to operational risk and business risk. Generally, revisiting all aspects of our capital allocation to businesses. This may impact this segment's ROE. We are targeting the second quarter for completion and will restate for such changes. 

 I'm moving to slide 9, the investment bank results. Investment bank's earnings were up significantly from quarter 4, and up over 20% from quarter 1 last year. The return on equity rebounded to 20%. Though the return on equity level may get restated for changes in capital allocation, the extent of the rebound will not. As you see in the pie chart on the right, fixed income capital markets represent about half of the $4b investment bank revenues, and is up 27% versus the prior quarter. 

 Financial revenues in global treasury were up 5%. On a total return basis, which includes unrealized gains and losses on both assets and liabilities, treasury produced record results, up about 15% from both prior periods. We also had a good rebounding equities, with revenues up 126% over fourth quarter, driven by strength in equity derivatives and convertibles. 

 We have positioned our equity business to produce positive earnings in this environment. It was achieved in the first quarter, despite the very slow market. In all of our trading areas, we capitalized on a good fixed income environment with lower interest rates, a steep youth curve, tighter credit spread and higher volatility. 

 We had increased client flows in cash and derivative markets, boding well for sustainability. And we had risk positions that worked out well, not outsized risk positions. The average value at risk in the quarter was $54m, versus $67m in prior quarters. 

 Investment banking fees were [inaudible] 4% versus the fourth quarter with continued weakness in advisory equity underwriting and loan syndications, offset some loss by strength in high grade and high yield underwriting. The investment bank pipeline remains weak but has become a less reliable indicator for some debt and equity deals. 

 Positive operating leverage was evident, compensation costs were up reflecting higher incentives, non-compensation expenses were down, over 80% of our announced expense reduction initiatives are complete. The savings in the first quarter more than offset increases in accounting for stock-based compensation, increases in occupancy and pension expenses. Headcount is down 17% over the last 12 months. Credit cost of $246m are down from both prior periods. 

 I'm on slide 10, investment bank lead table, and we do have a strong story to tell from those tables. We more than doubled our market share in U.S. equity and equity linked issues to 15%, taking the number one spot for the quarter. We all know that volumes are very low here. We are, therefore, focused on the direction of the move, and overall profitability. We maintain our leadership positions in fixed income with U.S. investment grade at No. 2 and global loan syndications at No. 1, with pressure on our market share given the increasing trend of issuers to share the lead position. And we improved our position in global announced M&E to No. 3, increasing our market share to 19%. 

 I want to highlight three recent deals. We were book runner to news corporation on a $500m bond issue, book runner on a $1.5b convert and advisor to news on a purchase of DirectTV from GM Hughes. We acted as advisor to Constellation Brands on its acquisition of an DRL Harvey an Australia Company. And we were book runner and administrative agent on a $2b financing package. In the past four years we have executed seven debt and equity deals for the company. We acted as joint book runner on a $1.15b convert offering for Walt Disney Company last week. This is JPM's second book run for Disney following a 2002 joint book run of $1.75b dual Tranche(ph) offering of senior notes. J.P.M. has had a long relationship with all these companies. The deals illustrate the business model as work, our global reach and investment banking expertise. 

 Let me move to slide 11, Chase Financial Services. It has had the second highest quarter ever with earnings of $700m and return on equity of 28%. Revenues were up 11% from the fourth quarter and over 20% from first quarter last year. Driven by record volumes in our mortgage business and increased volumes in card and auto finance. Next, hedging gains on mortgage servicing rights were less than $100m, but a swing of close to $200m from the prior period. Lower interest rates and the steep curve helped consumer lending businesses especially mortgage, with increased volumes and lower funding costs. While deposits grew at our regional bank and our middle market business, the value of these deposits decreased with the lower interest rates. Expenses grew 13% over first quarter last year. Credit costs were up 21%, again, consistent with the increased managed consumer loans. High mortgage application volumes in March and early April indicate continued trends into second quarter, though income will most likely be lower than the extraordinary results this quarter. We expect production volumes to moderate in the second half of the year, trending to lower mortgage earnings, about half of results this quarter. Overall, Chase Financial Services is at peak profitability at 28%, which we expect will eventually decline to more sustainable 20% return on equity. 

 Moving to slide 12, J.P. Morgan Partners. We had losses of $230m, which are comparable to last quarter, higher than quarter 4. The direct portfolio represents 75% of the $8b invested in private equity. We saw reduced opportunity for selling and delay in some deals, bringing realized gains down by approximately $100m. The write-downs of $175m are in line with prior quarters. Loss on third party funds from adjustment to NAD are running high. We generally view investments in third party funds as non-core to our private investing business and will explore opportunities to divest. Reductions here will be the primary driver for the targeted reduction of exposure to the asset class. Given the unfriendly environment for private equity, we expect total private equity losses for the year to be higher than we had previously anticipated. Potentially, approaching last year's levels. The swing to positive results will need to wait for the equity market and M&A environment to turn. 

 I'm on slide 13. And let me briefly review the other two businesses. Treasury and security services earnings of $147m were up very slightly from prior quarters. Revenues were flat, and expenses were down 1%. Income growth in treasury services and to a lesser extent institutional trusts was upset by revenue and income declines in investor services. Investor services continues to be adversely affected by difficult markets. We have reduced custody fees foreign exchange revenues and securities lending activity. The group's return on equity was 19%, and the overhead ratio improved marginally. Investment management and private banking had earnings of $64m and a very low return on equity. Revenues were down 16%, versus quarter 1, and the expenses were down 2%, bringing the pretax margin from 22% to 11%. Revenues are flat to the fourth quarter, and bottom line significantly up on a sequential basis. Over half of the revenue drop from quarter 1 last year can be attributed to lower global equity valuations, with the S & P down 26% year over year. Our U.S. core equity performance was poor last year and has expected has led to net outflow. For the quarter performance was above benchmark but it will take time to stem outflow. Assets under management were $495b at the end of the quarter, down 4% from year end and 16% from the first quarter last year. The Private Bank continued to see lower investor activities and revenues were down in brokerage custody and lending. Credit costs in the Private Bank are trending significantly lower. Maintaining the breadth of product and global progress in a depressed market has resulted in margin compression. 

 I'm on slide 14, and to summarize, we are pleased with first quarter results. Rebound in capital markets improved credit continued exceptional strength in retail, as well as the loss at J.P. Morgan partners are characterized a quarter. Our near term outlook is cautious. It's cautious because we still have low client activity in investment banking, we have an improving commercial credit picture, but we remain at cyclical high. We have delayed gain realization at J.P. Morgan Partners and consumer lending profits are at a key, and will eventually decline. Results this quarter, however, increased the visibility of the upside. First quarter results are much improved, but do not yet reflect the impact from the same factors, from the turn around in client activity, cyclical improvement in credit, or rising equity markets. These factors overwhelmed any potential slow downs in retail. Thank you all very much, and we will open it up for questions. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I'll make a few comments first. Just stepping back from the quarterly numbers and looking at it on a longer-term basis, we have said that our strategy is to be a diversified financial services firm with leadership positions in each of our businesses, and to provide our clients with integrated solutions. I think the strength of that model is beginning to be shown. Diversified, we've had great results from our consumer businesses, our businesses there are quite large. Sometimes it is usually because we don't have a large branch footprint that this is not a big business. But our mortgage credit card and auto finance businesses are among the largest in the country, and all are producing great results. Our middle market and retail -- and branch business are large where they exist, and generally, enjoy very high market shares. So this is a growing business, that has produced significant results to this company. 

 Integrated is important because it is quite clear in the marketplace that clients want integrated solutions. It is not an accident that over any recent period of time, those companies, those financial services companies that offer integrated solutions are gaining market share relative to narrower competitors. It is significant I think that this quarter J.P. Morgan ranks in the top 3 worldwide in M&A advice, debt underwriting and equity underwriting. This is a model that will work and will produce superior returns. One thing that has hurt returns has been our credit exposure, and people wonder if you can execute this strategy without taking on a great deal of risk in credit. In my mind, there is no question that we can do that. We have a portfolio that is overwhelmingly investment grade, now up to 82% from 77% just 15 months ago. Our mistake as we look at it was too much concentration in single industry or single names. And we have taken action to sharply limit exposures to single industries or single names. I do believe that we can continue to operate with lower credit cost, and with credit cost that have cyclical highs are lower than their previous highs. 

 Overall, I believe that this strategy does mean that we have significant upside leverage in our results. Dina pointed out the specific reasons why this will happen. We don't know when it will happen and we are not necessarily forecasting it to happen soon, given the uncertainties in the market environment. But we do know that sooner or later it will happen, and that we will be able to deliver the results from the franchise that we have put together. With that, I'd like to open it up to questions, and also, to invite some of my colleagues to join me in responding to your questions. Don Layton and David Coulter and Jeff Walker are here along with several of their colleagues who will respond to questions. Open it up for questions now. 

 OPERATOR: The floor is open for questions. You may press 1 followed by 4 on your touch tone phone. We request you pick up your handsets to provide optimum sound quality. Our first question is coming from Henry McVey of Morgan Stanley. 

 HENRY MCVEY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, just two questions. One, can you address just give us more specifics on the VAR, I looked at the -- when I look at the BS your ending for the year for trading receivables was $229b, ending for the first quarter was $243m but your average was $246b. What was the peak of the trading assets and how does that relate to the VAR numbers you gave us? 

 DINA DUBLON: The VAR number does not relate to the level of assets. We had higher average trading inventories, I guess, throughout the quarter. But there is no direct correlation between just the asset level and the value at risk. 

 HENRY MCVEY: What was the peak trading? 

 DINA DUBLON: What was the peak VAR for the quarter? 

 HENRY MCVEY: The trading assets I'm trying to get. Your ending was low, your average was high and then your ending was low again and I'm trying to get how high it went during the quarter? 

 DINA DUBLON: I don't know. If I had to pick a number, somewhere in the quarter it had $30b or $40b higher than where we ended. But I don't have a number as to which day it peaked at. 

 HENRY MCVEY: One more question. On the charge-offs, obviously Mark you gave good commentary on the commercial credit. I was trying to get a feel was there anything unusual in terms of reversals on the commercial side or is that a good run rate we should think about going forward? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think it's hard to think about run rates in a world where you get very lumpy charges. I think we have had several situations work out in such a way that was better than the provisions we had taken against those loans. In other words, the eventual workout of the loans was a better result than what we had provided for. I don't know that that's a trend that will continue. But I think it is a good indication of the conservatism with which we approach the process. We do know that we have had a reduction in the area that we were worried about the most going into the quarter, that was the merchant energy area, and we do know that we will have a further reduction in that area in the second quarter from actions that have already happened in April. We are very cautious, though, given the general environment in the economy, as to what else could happen. 

 HENRY MCVEY: So I'll take that there may have been some reversals but the goal is to, you don't know? I mean, were there reversals or were there not? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: There were certain situations where we had provided more than we needed to provide. But we don't comment on, you know, individual situations. 

 HENRY MCVEY: All right. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Mike Mayo from Prudential. 

 MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Hi. The trading, what kind of profit margin should we assign to that? In other words, you could almost guess that half your pretax earnings are from trading, is that correct? And in any event, it is such a big amount, can you give us some more detail on which areas the trading did well, by geography, activity, if you could just drill down a little bit more. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Let me just say, you could not say that half of our pretax profits were from trading, because the consumer business alone was almost half of our pretax profits. 

 MIKE MAYO: How much was that, then? What were pretax earnings just from trading? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We don't break out the expense numbers that are associated with it. But I'm just saying it couldn't be as large as you ascribe to it looking at the other businesses that have nothing to do with trading. In terms of looking at our overall trading, I think David Coulter do you want to comment on that? 

 DAVE COULTER, HEAD, INVESTMENT BANK, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, AND PRIVATE BANKING, JP MORGAN CHASE: Yeah, I'll make a few comments, Marc. The good news for us in the quarter was looking across products on a global basis we had a very strong performance across the board. I guess areas I'd highlight is very strong performance in European credit and rates, very strong performance in the emerging markets, had good rebound in equities, in the equity derivatives area. We were disappointed in our performance last year in equity derivatives. And I guess finally in the pure proprietary positioning in treasury area, we also saw good performance. So it was a strong quarter, in the sense that most of our results went in a positive direction. Now, you wouldn't certainly wouldn't draw a straight line through that for the rest of the year. But I think one -- and it was favorable environment, with rates in general trending down, and some volatility around that. So that says strong overall. Now, I think one positive to keep in mind going forward is a fair chunk of our business is client flow. In addition to pure trading activity. And if we look at something like our credit business, vis-a-vis the first quarter of last year, our client revenues are up about 30% from the first quarter of last year. If we look at our rates business, our client revenues are up about 13% from the first quarter last year. And I think that is a good thing to keep in mind vis-a-vis the sort of long-term trend lines of the size of this business for us. 

 MIKE MAYO: What percent would be proprietary versus client flow when you look at all tradings? 

 DAVE COULTER: It -- this will be just approximate, but I'd say somewhere between 60 and 65%. Bill Winters and Steve Black are in the room; they may have a slightly different number. If they disagree feel free to speak up gentlemen. 

 STEVE BLACK, INVESTMENT BANK, JP MORGAN CHASE: I would agree with the number. I think the important thing to consider in our trading income line is that there are three pieces that are sometimes difficult to distinguish. There's discrete proprietary trading which is relatively small. There is risk taking associated with our client business and then there's the client value itself that comes from the transaction with the client. And certainly the second two categories are somewhat fungible. We are -- we're taking risk as part of our client market making business. It is difficult to attribute risk piece to client piece they go together. But certainly the two categories client related, client value and risk taking, Dave's 60% to 65% is probably about right, perhaps a bit low. 

 MIKE MAYO: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from John Coffey from Citigroup. 

 JOHN COFFEY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: On the VAR, did you say that your average daily VAR to $54m and if so, why did you decide to reduce it? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Our VAR is a result of what happens when thousands of traders around the world make decisions. We have limits on individual traders and we have limits on aggregate VAR that would cause it not to go over certain amounts. But rarely is our VAR result from a top-down decision that we're going to take a position. It's really a result of a number of trading positions across the firm. 

 STEVE BLACK: Just to add a little bit of color, I think we clearly did not consciously reduce our risk. And even those thousands of traders, there wasn't a reduction in risk. What there was an increase in the diversification benefit that we got from trading strategies that were spread across a broader range of products, asset classes, and geographies. That was the primary contributor to the lower average [volume] in the quarter. 

 JOHN COFFEY: You did intentionally increase the diversification? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: That wasn't intentional either. That was the byproduct of I think a conscious strategy we have had across the market businesses, proprietary or not, to develop our risk taking skills wherever we have a strong client franchise. And I think what we're seeing is some of the benefit of a conscious decision to broaden out our capabilities but there is no specific target to increasing diversification per se. 

 JOHN COFFEY: Okay. Then a clarification. Dina was talking about real estate related charges in the restructuring costs on page 5. Is the $80m part of the $171 listed on page 5, or is that hidden somewhere else in the expenses? 

 DINA DUBLON: Yes. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: It's part of the $171. 

 JOHN COFFEY: Okay. And then so the guidance for the full Year, 500 total, includes also real estate related charges? 

 DINA DUBLON: Yeah, and the guidance was $400m total rather than $500m total, but yes. 

 JOHN COFFEY: Okay, well thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Andy Collins from U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. 

 ANDY COLLINS, ANALYST, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY: Private equity losses approaching last year's levels, I wonder if you could clarify perhaps by industry and also private versus public and second question is secondary market pricing in terms of the credit business, how much are you selling, how much are you hedging? Against that $14.3b total criticized exposure. Thank you. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Well, to answer the first question I don't think we could break it out that way. I think that the reason that our expectations have gone down is, the way the market is operating, with virtually no IPO market and with a level of M&A activity down. The opportunity for exits is simply much lower than we would have anticipated going into the year. Our write-offs probably are about the same level, although they may be a little bit higher on the fund side as we seek to dispose of some of those assets. But I don't think we could predict by industries unless, Jeff, Jeff Walker is here also unless you have some other opinion on that. 

 JEFF WALKER, JP MORGAN PARTNERS, JP MORGAN CHASE: You look at it and you see the IPO market still fairly slow. And we don't see that coming back any time soon. Looking at our portfolio. You look across the entire private equity industry and we can see through the funds we are invested in as well. There are no realizations occurring and so the corporate M&A market is slow as well. That is the determination of our realized gain line which is the key variable in our forecast throughout the rest of the year. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Thank you. And on the secondary markets? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I'm going to let Don McCree who is our Senior Credit Officer respond to that. 

 DON MCCREE, SENIOR CREDIT OFFICER, JP MORGAN CHASE: The 14.3 reflects hedges already in the criticized book. As it relates to additional actions against that portfolio, we would further mitigate the risk on an opportunistic basis, although realistically, where levels are in terms of spreads and where the assets in our market is he you won't see much secondary mitigation on an ongoing basis. The real path to reduction is via the traditional work-out process. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Next question is coming from Richard Strauss from Deutsche Banc. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Thank you. Just looking at the criticized and I'm sorry the investment grade and non-investment grade exposures, when you reclassify that, that's your reclassification is that correct? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: That is our internal reclassification which is roughly consistent with public ratings but does not exactly duplicate public ratings. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: And if we look at these criticized performing, because it rooks like they actually went up in Telecom and cable, what is your experience, like what is the percentage that we should think about when we look at something called criticized performing in terms of that actually going to nonperforming? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Don, you want to respond to that? 

 DON MCCREE: I'm not sure you can extrapolate a specific percentage. We are seeing fewer of our criticized performing loans migrate to the nonperforming status, certainly over the current quarter, you could call that a six month trend but it is hard to come up with specific overall portfolio percentages there. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: What we said in the third quarter, in a troubled area like telecom, you get to a point where sort of if it hasn't gone bad by now it's not going to go bad. I'm not saying we're at that point entirely for all of these credits but that means that the likelihood of a criticized performing loan going nonperforming today is much lower than it was a year ago, simply because of the point in the cycle we're at and if it hasn't already happened by now in an industry where there is no outside sources of liquidity, presumably the company has some staying power. But it's hard to predict by each individual segment. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: And in the equities business in the last few months, in the left, was there a philosophical difference or was there a change that was about to take place, has there been a strategic change in terms of, you know, perhaps how you view the cash business versus the arbitrage businesses, should -- what should we read into the -- any of this? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Dave Coulter you want to respond to that? 

 DAVE COULTER: I think Steve Black is in the room. Why don't we get it directly in the horse's mouth here. 

 STEVE BLACK: First of all I'm not going to respond relative to an individual. I will respond relative to what we tried to do last October, September/October, which was to take a look at what we thought the environment was going to look like in 2003, which we expected to be not better, but not worse, and then right-sized the resources and the expense base to what we thought that revenue stream would be for 2003. Also, thinking that there was some places like derivatives where we simply did not do a good job, where we felt we could do a better job even without a better environment. And we right-sized in that September/October time frame, we took out 20 +% of our headcount which took us down to 2,000, a little over $1b in the cost base over the last two years and what you're seeing I think is a result of even in this difficult environment, that expense base is the right expense base. And frankly, I think we've been able to focus on the market and the customers while some of our competitors have been focusing on what we focus on last September/October. So no change in overall strategy other than paying as much attention to profitability and less attention to trying to build out a [inaudible] opening to be all things to all people cross the globe. 

 DAVE COULTER: Richard, I would add one thing. This is Dave Coulter. I think Steve and team has done a great job, we have faced these questions for the last few quarters. But when you look at the size and scope of our equity business, be it in the convertible side which certainly was the game in the first quarter or the derivative side or the cash business, as an institutional player in this, capital market side or the underwriting side we feel pretty good about how this business is positioned right now, and we feel especially good about our ability to win deals for those clients where we have broad, deep relationships. And to play a lead role in the transactions. And I think the first quarter felt pretty good from that standpoint. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: Great, thank you. 

 STEVE BLACK: One thing I would add, I think it's important to note, we had very good performance in convertibles and derivatives. We had flat performance in cash, in what was clearly a very difficult environment, where most major accounts would tell you their commission payouts are 40% lower than where they were a year ago, and where the volumes are actually down. So we are -- are picking up market share in the cash side of the business, although it's not reflected in an increase in the revenue stream. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Walter Scully(ph) of Putnam Investments. 

 WALTER SCULLY, ANALYST, PUTNAM INVESTMENTS: I had a question just about the capital reallocation. I don't know if it's better for Mark or Dana. Couple of questions, why are you doing it what was the catalyst of doing this, the second part is do you think your V1 total capital changes or if you are just moving around the pieces and the third is you kind of highlighted that there's greater risk in commercial lending, I think you're implying that maybe you thought before, just how much of a change might that have on the ROE, are we talking about a small change, like 100 basis points or are we talking about 500 basis points of ROE? 

 DINA DUBLON: Let me hopefully address all the sub-questions you had. Why are we doing it. We do quite regularly, we visit various aspects of our capital allocation, and we find them. We have had a more focused effort around our approach to credit risk management, which has led us to a very different approach on the capital allocation, the internal pricing of those loans in the company. As I mentioned earlier, making it more market-sensitive and generally resulting in an increase in the capital allocation for credit. Separately from that exercise, we have been probably, since the beginning of the merger, I would say, but more than one year, been revisiting our overall approach to operational risk capital. So it's a parallel process, not necessarily one linked to the other. But we have taken an approach of being much more -- put putting it a little bit in quotes but being more scientific about operational risk capital and very much with the [inaudible] approach in mind which has a real encouragement for a more scientific and more fact-based approach to allocation of capital in the regulatory framework. So those are the two major frame works we have been focused on over the last few months. All these things are coming together. Our assessment of where we are today is that it does not change the overall need for capital in the company, if you look at our disclosures, we have the significant amount relative to economic risk measurement of capital. We have a significant amount of access capital based on those methodologies. It will change on the margin, the allocation of capital across businesses, as we are reassessing the components of risk. So it might change, and you know, I'm not giving you a number, because we don't have that work completed. It will change the segment return on equity. It does not, in terms of where we stand today, change an overall assessment of our need for capital in the firm. 

 WALTER SCULLY: Do you think there would be any business actions that come out of it, or is it just really changing the disclosure? 

 DINA DUBLON: Definitely, there are business actions. We are, you know, for us, the capital allocation is very much the linkage between risk measurement and financial return. So it won't change, hopefully behavior as well. That is part of the overall approach to revised approach to credit risk management that Mark has alluded to earlier, which has a much tighter control of industry, as well as issuer concentration, in addition to making it more market sensitive. So yes, we do hope it will change behavior internally. I don't think it's necessarily a dramatic change, but it is part of an evolution we have had in terms of our approach to commercial credit of making it more market-sensitive and over time, reducing our reliance on the credit product. 

 DAVE COULTER: You know, this is Coulter again. Let me add one business comment if I could. The bank loan asset continues to be a very important asset class for us, and we think that will be the case going forward. But certainly the market's changing and the evolution of the CDS marketplace and the impact on pricing signals is something you have to take into account. And so Dina's going to have a session on May 7th to talk in detail about some of our views here. But we think we need to stay on the front end of intellectual capital in terms of that evolving asset class and how it's priced and how you think about capital allocation, and we're going to do that, at the same time it continues to be a quite important asset class for us. 

 WALTER SCULLY: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Brock Vandervliet of Lehman Brothers. 

 BROCK VANDERVLIET, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thank you very much. I wanted to shift gears a little bit to the consumer business, if you could talk about the credit card trends, there seem to be a decoupling this quarter where charges are up somewhat delinquencies are up, could you speak to that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Tom Ketchum is here and I'd like to have him do that. 

 TOM KETCHUM, TECHNOLOGY COUNCIL, JP MORGAN CHASE: I'm not sure there is any material decoupling. Our basic posture is the credit card balances are rising, so naturally you will have charges that will go up with them. But the way the charges work is delinquencies occur and you charge off after 180 days so you do have just some of the leads and lags. Beyond that our view is that the credit quality is stable, and there's no material trend here. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think the one thing that has led to that a little bit, Brock, also is the increase in bankruptcies which seems to happen every time Congress considers passing a new bankruptcy bill, you tend to get a little bit of a spike and we saw some of that in the first quarter. 

 BROCK VANDERVLIET: Okay. And as a follow-up, if you could talk about Chase auto finance, the receivables growth has been a little steep in the last year. How comfortable are you continuing to grow that portfolio? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: You are correct, the growth has been quite good. It has been more gain in market share than a question of a rising market. Our auto business is a high-end credit quality, it is not a sub-prime specialist and does not do material sub-prime, and all the indicators there are again consistent with stable credit picture, so we're very comfortable with that. We're considered one of the highest quality portfolios in the industry. 

 DAVE COULTER: Just a comment there also. You know, many, many -- several years ago this was a difficult business and many banks chose to get out of this business. We looked at it very hard, and decided to stay in the business, because we thought we had a better model, in terms of lower credit risk model, and because we thought that with reduced competition, it would become a better business. That has proven to be a very good decision. And the business growth that we're seeing is because there is a lot of refinancing and new car activity, but also because we are gaining significant market share as some of our financial competitors have dropped out and as some of the captives are having more trouble growing their portfolio. 

 TOM KETCHUM: Actually, they had the portion of that portfolio that is leasing continues to shrink. The residual risk associated with our leases is mostly insured but we're continuing consciously looking to originate much more on the loan side than on the fee side. 

 BROCK VANDERVLIET: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Reilly Tierney of Fox, Pitt Kelton. 

 REILLY TIERNEY, ANALYST, FOX, PITT KELTON: I have a couple of questions. One, obviously the trading performance was tremendous this quarter. And you know, I guess you guys have always told us that the normal kind of quarterly run rate is probably 1.2 to 1.5 and it's 1.9 this quarter. Your securities gains this quarter are higher than average because of the MSR hedging gains. A lot of this stuff is obviously questionable in terms of sustainability. Do you feel comfortable that the environment right now remains accommodative to these continued kind of results, or would you expect a downturn next quarter, would you expect these numbers to be lower the rest of the year? That's my first question. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think we've always felt that with regard to trading that the first quarter is seasonally high. That's been a general trend over many years. Number 2, we had very favorable interest rate environment in the first quarter and many firms were able to take advantage of that. It is unlikely that that will be repeated in quarters to come. With regard to mortgages, it was not so much the gains in hedging, there were some, smaller in some other quarters, but it was the huge amount of origination activity, the gain on sail of origination and the profits in the warehouse that we would not expect to repeat because we do expect that originations will decline as interest rates stabilize or even go up. So I think all of those are reasons that we are cautious about the outlook for the remainder of the year. Nonetheless, we feel we've made some progress in several areas that makes us feel better about it. But we do remain cautious about the outlook. 

 REILLY TIERNEY: I also have a second question about the drop in the NPAs which obviously was very positive this quarter. Were there any loan sales out of or some distressed loan sales during the quarter that helped bring that down? It seemed like a pretty tremendous improvement just for one quarter sequentially in this still pretty difficult credit environment. And also as you move to this capital allocation process where you're going to put market inputs or market pricing inputs into your capital allocation process, have you also considered marking to market loan portfolios going forward, or are you putting in place systems that would enable you to mark to market loan, move sort of away from the typical credit reserving that commercial banks do? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: To answer the second question, we do not think it's appropriate to change our accounting to a mark to market. And would not expect to change our reserving policy to a mark to market. We do track for internal purposes and evaluation and risk monitoring, measures of mark to market. Although there is some market in trading loans, it is still not a deep market, or liquid market, relative to the size of most people's portfolio. With regard to our activity, most of the decrease in nonperforming assets came from either repayments, satisfactory workout of the company or recapitalization of the company, or charge-off. We did have some sales, but they were not material to the overall results. Also, just to correct, one other statement that we had made, with regard to the exposures that we list either total criticized exposures or the exposures that we list on page 23 in the total industries, those are not net of hedges. On the criticized exposure, we actually don't have a lot of hedges against that exposure because they're at a point where it's either very difficult or very expensive to buy those hedges. We do have some hedges against the investment grade and the non-criticized portfolio as shown on page 23, and our total hedges against the accrual loan exposure as set out in our annual report are around $30b. 

 REILLY TIERNEY: Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Jim Mitchell of Putnam Lovell. 

 JIM MITCHELL, ANALYST, PUTNAM LOVELL: Good morning, can you hear me? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yes. 

 JIM MITCHELL: My question was just to get back to the trading securities games part, obviously there has been a big move up in security gains. Can you break down how much is asset management versus proprietary positioning and the increase over the last few quarters has been more in the proprietary side, is that just added capital to that business or just taking advantage of current environment? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We've run Global Treasury in a very consistent way for the last decade. We've run it as a profit center. We set up a -- an index of -- which they need to invest to match the liabilities. And then we give them some variability around that index to take positions. They've been very successful over a very long period of time in doing that. The financial results which we track total return as well as financial results, the two are largely in sync the quarter. So I would say it was a result of some good decisions within very carefully prescribed limits, and the realization of those decisions. 

 JIM MITCHELL: Okay. But would you expect this to be sort of unusual environment for gains? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Certainly. The sharp decline in interest rates produces an unusual environment for gains. We've had gains fairly consistently over a long period of time but I think they're difficult to predict from quarter to quarter. 

 DINA DUBLON: I would also add that during the quarter, we moved from a position where we had to view about declining in rates into towards the end of the quarter with reaching more of a neutral position. 

 JIM MITCHELL: Okay. 

 DINA DUBLON: Relative to move in interest rates and will produce a certain level of gain realization. 

 JIM MITCHELL: Right exactly. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from David Wilder of Bear Stearns. 

 DAVID WILDER, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: My question was about the decline in nonperforming loans and you answered it. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: We show no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the floor back over to our speakers. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Okay. Thank you very much for attending. We do feel obviously much better about this quarter than we have some others. We appreciate those of you who have continued to have confidence in the ultimate realization of the value of this company. We certainly have that confidence. And we look forward to continuing results for the remainder of this year. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c134 : Copyright | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020030417dz4g00008
  


 HD
 Q4  2002 J P  MORGAN  CHASE & CO Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,844 words
   PD
22 January 2003
   ET
04:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, and welcome to the JP Morgan Chase fourth quarter and year-end 2002 earnings review. Your host for today will be Marc Shapiro, Vice Chairman of Finance and Risk Management at JP Morgan Chase. 

   TD
 Let me remind you that today's conference call may contain statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JP Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30th, 2002, June 30th, 2002, and March 31st, 2002, and the 2001 annual report on Form 10-K, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's Internet Web site, www.sec.gov, to which reference is hereby made. 

 At this time, all participants are on a listen-only mode, and the floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. To ask your question, you may press 1, followed by 4, on your touch-tone phones, and to remove yourself, you may press the pound key. 

 As a reminder, all members of the press will be on a listen-only mode for the duration of the call. 

 It is now my pleasure to introduce our host, Marc Shapiro. 

 MARC SHAPIRO, VICE CHAIRMAN OF FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT, JP MORGAN: Thank you very much, and we appreciate your joining us on this morning's conference call. As is our custom, Dina Dublon will give you a brief rundown of our view of the numbers, I'll make a few comments, and then we'll have questions in which -- the answers of which will be shared by my colleague. Dina, you want to go ahead? 

 DINA DUBLON, FINANCE, JP MORGAN: Thank you. Good morning to all of you on the line. I will go straight into the earnings operating highlights for the quarter. We had a very strong rebound in investment bank revenues, primarily in trading. Commercial credit costs are significantly lower than the third quarter, but still very high. Expenses were much higher because of severance costs, as well as higher incentives (ph). 

 For the full year, our newly renamed retail business, now Chase Financial Services, and treasury and securities services performed well. Market-related businesses and commercial credit continue to be negatively impacted by the downturn, generally in line with competitors, but given their size, overwhelming the firm's results. 

 Despite the short-term challenges, we continue to make fundamental progress. Merger execution is now behind us. The firm's operating margin is higher than last year, and we maintained or grew leadership position. Very important, we had very large below-the-line *nonrecurring charges for merger and for litigation. 

 If you go to the next slide, reported earnings were significantly lower than operating earnings. Fourth quarter reported loss of 20 cents a share and the full-year earnings per share of only 80 cents. Previously announced non-operating charges include 13 cents for the final piece of the merger execution and 43 cents for the surety settlement and litigation reserve, bringing the total charges for the quarter to 56 cents. Operating earnings per share of 36 cents were more than double fourth quarter last year or the third quarter this year. 

 The analysis we provide uses operating earnings as a basis to facilitate an estimate of the run rate in earnings going forward. Focusing, therefore, on operating results in the next slide, revenues were up 9% and 15% over prior quarters. Expenses were significantly higher, 18% and 15% higher. As we have discussed in prior quarters, beginning this year the cost of severance programs to adjust to the current environment are included in operating expenses. Credit costs continue to be high, but lower than prior quarter and prior year. Return on equity was a subpar 7%. 

 For the fourth quarter, severance-related costs, in the next slide, up -- were up (ph) primarily but not only in the investment bank, for a total of $500 million, or 16 cents a share. If we were to have no such costs in '03, one could normalize the fourth quarter run rate to 52 cents, or 36 plus 16. We do expect to have additional right-sizing expenses in 2003 closer to a recurring level of 250 million, or 8 cents for the year, concentrated in the first half of 2003. Operating expenses, excluding severance, if you look at the graph on the left of the slide, were still at 10% from the third quarter. 

 The next slide shows key expense and revenue variances from the third quarter. Excluding severance, expenses were up 470 million, almost 400 million of it in the investment bank, mostly incentives against 900 million higher revenues as well as lower credit costs. For the year, incentives or overall compensation expenses in the investment bank are down 25%. 

 You can see other variances, their effect on the bottom line of the lines of business is in the next slide, slide 7, which I'll review left to right. Chase Financial Services, our retail business, had fourth-quarter earnings of 500 million. Over 50% better than the fourth quarter last year, but much lower than the record third quarter. As we said then, 30% return on equity was not a sustainable level. 19% in the fourth quarter is. The income decline is due to lack of hedging gains on mortgage servicing, as well as the spread not -- because the spread of mortgage to swap narrowed. Investment bank at 360 million in income, 8% ROE, is a strong rebound from the third quarter. Much higher revenues than last year, but higher credit costs as well as expenses. 

 You can see that excluding severance-related costs, the investment bank is almost 50% higher than last year, and the return on equity was 12%. Treasury and security services, fourth-quarter earnings are down from prior periods, mostly because of the impact of weak equity markets on our custody business. The decline from the third quarter reflects the 50 million gain on the sale of our investment in (inaudible). Return on equity was 19%. Investment management and private banking had a very weak -- had very weak results this quarter. 

 Severance costs, which were 25 million for the quarter in that business, and higher incentives, despite lower revenues. We keep a floor on expenses and had close to 30 million catch-up versus average accruals in prior quarter. Without these costs, the pretax margin for the business would have been 12%, which is a better indication of the margin going into 2003. JP Morgan's partners had higher realized than mark-to-market gains, reducing the loss created by write-downs and write-offs. 

 Moving to credit costs on slide 8, first, for the quarter, commercial credit costs declined by over 800 million, from 1.4 billion to .6 billion. Consumer stayed stable for the quarter, though delinquencies and bankruptcies were up. Consumer charge-offs may trend higher than where we ended the year, but we expect credit cost increases to be primarily driven by growth in volume. For the year, commercial credit costs of 2.8 billion were up from a very high level in '01. The increase was driven by credit costs related to the telecom sector of 1.2 billion for the year. 

 During the quarter, we added 9.0 (ph) million to the reserves for loan losses. Non-performing loans increased by a modest 2%, about a hundred million, driven by merchant energy. For the year, non-performing loans are up almost $2 billion. Let me make a few observations on the next slide on the key or, I guess, hot industries just now. Total on and off balance sheet telecom credit exposure are down this quarter about 1.5 billion to under $17 billion. 

 Two-thirds of that reduction is in criticized exposure, resulting from negotiations with the brokers. Generally, an acknowledgment of the contraction in their business. In addition, developments in the fourth quarter indicate resolution with certain brokers for which we took large credit provisions in the third quarter on more favorable terms. Merchant energy deteriorated in the quarter. Criticized merchant energy is up and will continue to pressure for higher non-performing assets. In the airline sector, we have significantly reduced and collateralized exposures. The total is about 2.5 billion dollars, with under 1 billion exposure to passenger airlines. We have nearly no leasing exposures. 

 Next slide, slide 10, is a busy slide. On the right side of the slide, total commercial credit exposure, including on and off balance sheet again, 430 billion at year end. The top number on the bar, 83 billion, represents credit exposure arising from our derivative dealing. It is carried on a mark-to-market basis and therefore, the exposure level fluctuates with moves in market rates. The numbers are growth exposures. We carry cash like (inaudible) of about 30 billion at year end and also have credit (inaudible) swaps of setting exposures to specific names or portfolios. 

 Contingencies and commercial loans are on an accrual basis and are down 20 billion for the year. The left sideshows criticized exposures which are rated internally CCC or lower and include non-performing assets. You see the reduction in criticized telecom exposure to 2.3 billion, the increase in energy and the 1.4 billion reduction since December in all other criticized assets. In total, these developments indicate that at least a stabilization but I guess -- we had some stabilization but still at the bottom of the cycle. The numbers provide the basis for cautiously expecting a reduction in commercial non-performing and a reduction in commercial credit costs. At least for a portion of the 1.2 billion telecom costs, we had in '02. Slide 11 gives you the full year operating results. 

 Despite environments, revenues were up 2%. We had large revenue declines in investment bank and investment management, and equally large revenue increases in retail. Expenses were down 2%, inclusive of all severance-related costs. Again, here, the sale of two cities, expenses are down significantly in the investment bank and up 14% in retail. The operating margin is 10%, or about $1 billion wider than last year, than in 2001. Excluding severance, the operating margin or the run rate has improved 19%, or about $2 billion. Income was down 11% from a weak level last year, leading to return on equity of only 8%. 

 Slide 12 provides line of business results over the last three years, and helps put 2002 in perspective. Very briefly for CSF, chase finances service was a breakout year relative to either 2000 or 2001, 2.5 billion dollars in earnings and 24% return on equity. The investment bank, with 1.4 billion in earnings, is down for the last two years from the 3.5 billion dollars earned in 2000. Treasury and security services more than our other businesses is steady as you go. Earnings are relatively flat over the three-year period. Return on equity were over 20%20%. Growth has been significantly curtailed over this period by the impact of declining equity markets on our custody business. Better results in treasury services and institutional trusts, coupled with tight expense management, have helped offset it. 

 We target modest revenue and income growth in '03. Investment management and private bank had a very difficult year, a 20% earnings decline from 2001 and close to 40% lower than the peak in 2000. Revenues declined from reductions in assets under management, lower trading volumes, lower spread on deposits, reduction in loans, and trust fees across the board. U.S. core institutional equity performance is weak, resulting in outflows. International investment performance is very good. In the fourth quarter, net asset flows turned positive, and private banking monthly revenues trended up after consistent declines. We are targeting improvement in private bank earnings from a very weak '02 base. Investment management earnings were up in 2002 but may be changed in '03, given that global equity markets are currently 10% lower than the average levels for full-year '02. 

 Providing some more detail on slide 13 on chase financial services, as you see here, the record performance was driven by the consumer credit businesses. In total, the earnings of these businesses were up 80%. Cards earnings were up over 40%, driven by Providian as well as double-digit revenue growth in the base business. Home finance had extraordinary, and under most scenarios, not repeatable, record earnings. Adjusting for the hedging gains on servicing rights, earnings are still up in the mortgage business 40% rather than 140% on a reported basis. 

 For auto lending, we are the last one non-captive, I guess, left standing, and it helps. Original banking and middle-market revenues and income declined due to the lower rates, despite 12% deposit growth. We adjusted the results for unusual hedging gains by reducing pretax income by about 500 million, still producing earnings growth of 37% and an adjusted return on equity of 20% for the year. Against the backdrop of 2002, with its record mortgage originations, wide mortgage/swap spreads, record auto sales, record bank deposits, we expect lower reported income in 2003. 

 From a basis that is adjusted for hedge gains, we would target modest revenue growth and maintaining a 19% to 20% return on equity. The investment bank, slide 14, for the year, it reflects the impact of declining revenues, doubling of credit costs, and high severance of close to 600 million for the year, leading to a 50% reduction in income and 7% return on equity. 

 Excluding severance, expenses were down 16%. In '03, we will have additional severance costs of 150 million. We have reset the business model to generate acceptable returns, assuming the environment supports monthly average revenues of only 1 billion, or 12 billion in annual revenue. In the fourth quarter, we generated 3.3 billion, despite a brief (inaudible) December. Annualizing it would mean over 13 billion in revenues in '03. We are not counting (inaudible). There were no unusual trading gains or losses. Equities and equity derivatives continue to be very weak, and fixed-income was strong. Proprietary results were about 200 million, similar to the fourth quarter last year, but a rebound from negative results in the prior quarter. 

 We had good client flow in fixed income, with the good financing environment continuing in January. Otherwise, the deal pipeline is weak. 

 If you go to slide 15 briefly, we have maintained key leadership positions, improved or in some cases fell slightly. In a generally very weak market, with much fewer transactions and lower volume. We have very strong positioned in fixed-income market, global syndicated loans, investment-grade asset-backed high-yield or in the convertible market. 

 Slide 16 shows the components of private equity gains or losses for the last three years. As the public portfolio strength, both from market valuations and sales, the potential for volatility there is significantly reduced. The purpose portfolio is now carried on the books at $520 million. We expect to continue to have write-downs, but at a slower pace than the 1.1 billion in '02. At the same time, we expect to have a higher level of sale activity, leading to higher realized gains. This should lead us to still a sub-par performance, but the number that is much closer to zero. We will continue to reduce our exposure to the asset class. We believe direct private equity investments to be a core strategic business. 

 We are investing for our own account at a slower pace, just under a billion dollars in '02. We are selling direct investments as they mature, and opportunistically will continue to divest of third-party funds. Looking at capital, slide 18, (inaudible) capital ratio is down to 8.2%. The surety settlement and litigation reserve contributed 20 basis points to the decline. 

 In addition, tier 1 ratio was lowered by the impact of a regulatory change for securitization which require holding, dollar for dollar, capital against securitization accounts such as recourse and residual interest. That added about $10 billion to risk-weighted assets this quarter. The-- last Friday, FASB issued a pronouncement on consolidation of special-purpose (inaudible). Assuming no changes to existing commercial paper conduit structures, by July '03 we may have 20 billion to 30 billion in assets consolidated. I mean July '03 as the effective date and we do have a chance to attempt to restructure some of these structures. The impact of that pronouncement on the tier 1 risk-weighted assets may be much smaller than the impact on leverage. 

 For both cases, the securitization change or the FASB pronouncement, we already factored the residual risks in our approach to capital, as do the rating agencies. S&P released, on FASB pronouncement, notes as much. The release was this past Friday. Strategically, we are reducing our exposures and therefore the capital necessary to support commercial credit and private equity investments. We are growing the business, and our capital investments and retail. I would like to summarize our assumptions for 2003. 

 On the revenue side, no turnaround for capital markets or deal flow, with revenues comparable to 2002. But with the IB sized down to this level of activity. We would target, as we discussed, lower losses at JP Morgan partners. Chase financial services will continue to perform well, as rates remain within the current range. We exchange lower mortgage originations and hedging gains, at least for later in the year. Overall, modest revenue growth and bottom-line comparable to an adjusted '02 level. Credit costs, we expect commercial non-performing assets and credit costs to come down in '03. We are cautious on the consumer side with car charge-off ratio expected to increase from the fourth quarter level. Expenses could be slightly higher in 2003 despite the savings in the investment bank. 

 If you go to the next slide, taking a closer look at the drivers of operating expenses, for the full year, expenses were $20.2 billion. We will have several items that drive expenses higher. Combined, options and performance costs, increase in pension costs and occupancy contribute over 650 million to an expense increase. We can elaborate on each one of these in the Q&A. Chase financial services expense growth will significantly moderate from the pace in '02, but here as well as in treasury and security services, business volumes and expenses are growing. 

 Still in negotiations but very probable, we will be consolidating in '03 the retirement plan services 50-50 joint venture that we have with American Century, adding about 150 million to expenses. The venture is aimed at corporate 401(k) plans. We have been carrying about 75% of the economics of the venture already in our income statement in one line in revenues as equity income. Offsetting the increased expenses, we had investment bank savings of 700 million, which are partially offset by continued selective investments, and potentially higher incentives from better credit performance. 

 We have lower severance-related costs included in operating expense -- about 600 million lower such costs. The technology outsourcing to IBM is strategically important. It will introduce reliability to fixed-cost base and we will have 20% savings over a 7-year period. For 2003, savings are relatively small as we implement the program beginning in April. In total, the (inaudible) for '03 in expenses are higher than the downs. In summary, last slide, 2002 was a tough year. We are looking for improvement in 2003, driven by very modest revenue growth and lower commercial credit costs. 

 By line of business, the investment bank should do better, and chase financial services should be coming down from the record in '02. We may be too conservative, but we don't yet have evidence for a rosier near-term outlook. We will continue to focus on risk management expenses and capital. The cyclical impact of today's credit capital markets, JP Morgan partners, as well as the wider operating margins will have tremendous leverage on the up side in the future. We are a very strong franchise, and have no doubt about the earnings potential of the firm beyond this cycle that we are in now. 

 Thank you. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Thank you, Dina. Just to make a few comments, I think the fourth quarter was a significant one for the company. In addition to reaching a settlement and resolving the surety issue and setting aside reserves for future litigation losses, I think the more important part was returning to what I would call normalized earnings at a very low level. There really was not a lot of other sort of unusual items once you get past the severance costs. So when you do that, you get to sort of a normal low level of earnings, still leveraged to up side when credit costs improve, when investment banking revenues improve, and when JP Morgan partners' revenues improve. It's unclear exactly when that will happen. We're not necessarily predicting it to happen in 2003 relative to the run rates in the fourth quarter, but when it does happen -- and it clearly will at some point -- then there is a tremendous amount of up side leverage in our earnings and it's realizing that up side leverage that we are determined to do. 

 We do believe strongly in the business strategy that we have, the value of a diversified firm has never been clearer and the value of a diversified model in the investment banking business is clearly one that gains market share. 

 With that summary of comments, what I'd like to do is respond to your questions, and as I indicated before, I'm joined by my colleagues today in doing that. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. If you do have a question or comment, you may press 1, followed by 4, on your touch-tone phones. If at any point your question has been answered, you may remove yourself from the queue by pressing the pound key. 

 Our first question is coming from Henry McVeigh (ph) of Morgan Stanley. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Can you hear me? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yes. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. Just a couple questions. Dina, when you said on the credit costs you expected the commercial side to be down slightly, is that including the reserves strengthening in the fourth quarter with the surety bond? Can you just give us more detail so we can understand what (inaudible) line -- what base to work off? 

 DINA DUBLON: I am not including the surety settlement when I'm referring to credit costs. I am otherwise referring to what is the number of commercial credit costs for the year, which I believe is $2.7 billion. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. 

 DINA DUBLON: And I'm looking at that number when I'm discussing a reduction -- an expected reduction in 2003. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. And just one more on credit. You -- in the quarter, you guys had some charge-offs related to unfunded commitments. You had built that reserve up previously. Is that reserve at risk now, or do you feel comfortable with the level? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Let me make a comment on that. That was built up for a specific credit ... 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: ... which was resolved in the fourth quarter. And the charge was taken against that specific build-up. So on a normal basis, we expect that reserve is fine. It was just a specific situation that we were reserving against, which got resolved in the fourth quarter. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Right. Okay. Just a couple others. You said that you would break down just, I guess, the pension costs, the options, and the occupancy, and then you said that, you know, the negatives would outweigh the positives. Can you give us some order of magnitude, and then help us to understand the occupancy, the pension, and the options? 

 DINA DUBLON: I'll do my best. On the options, the incremental cost for expensing options in 2003 is about $280 million. That number builds up because we amortize the grants over a three-year period. We -- in addition to that -- had -- in 2002, had about a hundred million -- 120, to be exact -- of reversal of performance-based stock, which is the vesting of it was triggered on pricing that we -- was a benefit in 2002 expenses. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Right. 

 DINA DUBLON: So between those two items, you have 280 plus 120, you have $400 million. You have -- pension expense, we are fully funded in our pension plans as of year end. Pension expense is going up by about $100 million. We had reduced the earnings assumption on assets to 8% from what was 9 and a quarter percent, and have reduced the liability discount rate to 6.5 percent for next year. And then finally, occupancy. Occupancy would be up about $150 million. That would reflect a series of factors including the move to midtown, including the increase in real estate taxes that we have just had in New York, and -- and I think that's primarily it. There may be one more factor contributing to that. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: And when you net them together, you said that there would be more drags than pluses. What -- what was the -- what number should we think about? 

 DINA DUBLON: I am not going to forecast for you the increase in expenses in each one of the businesses. What I was referring is to the fact that one should factor in growth in expenses, depending on your own view, but growth in expenses for retail and for treasury and security services, even though we will continue to see the decline in expenses in the investment bank and in the investment management business. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. Just one other thing, and Marc, maybe you can take this. If -- on the investment bank, just protecting the up side leverage, it sounds like you guys are shooting more towards like a $12 billion in revenues next year, and that would give us a 12% ROE. If revenues did come in around 13 billion, are we talking, you know, a couple hundred basis points increase in ROE? Have you guys looked at that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: David Coulter has looked at it a lot, so I'm going to let him answer that question. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. 

 DAVID A. COULTER, INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, JP MORGAN: Henry, as we --as we tried to size the investment bank in August and September, and as we've talked before, sized it at a -- at what looked like --assuming the world stayed as is, at a $12 billion a year run rate, targeted a 12% ROE, we saw significant up side leverage from there. If you move from a billion dollars a month to a billion two a month in revenue, you know, you have to factor in an increase in expenses to get there, and you have to think about what kind of credit environment that is, but that brings us in at around 16 or 17% ROE, and, you know, to move from a billion to a billion two in some ways doesn't take 20% more effort. It is definitely a function of what the market environment is. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Right. Okay. And just one final question. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Henry, we're going to invoke the McVeigh rule here. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: Okay. That's fair. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: And there's only going to be two questions per listener if we can do that and if we have a chance at the end, we'll come back and pick you up. 

 HENRY MCVEIGH: That's fair. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: The next questioner? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Judah Krashour (ph) of Merrill Lynch. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Good morning, Judah. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: I have two questions. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Okay. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: On the investment bank's overhead ratio, you cited that ex-severance this quarter, the overhead ratio would have been 59%. In prior times, you know, you've talked about a low 60s target so I'm wondering whether you're lowering the target. It seems that apart from searches, though, you also had these security gains, so I'm wondering if you're sort of -- we ought to be normalizing for that as part of the reason for getting to the billion dollar a month run rate as well. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: You know, David, why don't you answer that. 

 DAVID A. COULTER: Sure. Judah, we -- I think I've said in the past that we target about a 60% overhead ratio. It will definitely fluctuate up and down. We wouldn't want to be too mechanistic there, in terms of doing something that didn't make sense for the long term. We think 60% is about the right number, when we look at our business versus other people, so we'll probably continue to shoot for that, although as I said, you could -- you could expect some variability. In terms of factoring securities gains in, we do have a big global treasury operation. 

 That, in addition to balancing the firm's interest rate risk, takes proprietary risk. We've tried to talk about that in our attached materials where we talk about capital markets revenue. They have been very successful at taking largely fixed-income proprietary risk, and I think will continue to do so. So we try to look at it on an economic return basis, as well as an accounting basis, and I -- I don't think there's -- well, they've had a very good year, but I wouldn't characterize their year as wildly abnormal. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: Okay. The other thing is, in prior times, you've talked about a normal trading revenue of a billion two to a billion six. You came in at the low end of that range. Has there been a change in your thinking about what would constitute normal trading results? 

 DAVID A. COULTER: I think last time I talked about trading -- trading revenues and trading NII (ph) fluctuating over the last four or five quarters between a billion and a billion seven, actually. This time, we came in at a billion two fifty. I think -- we regarded that as a -- as a pretty good quarter, so, you know, when I look back over the last five quarters, that range of a billion to a billion six looks like a pretty good range for us. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: Okay. And I know I'm cheating, but on retail, my other question -- 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We'll have to invoke ... 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: Really, that was a follow-up. Can I just ask the slowdown in retail revenues on a linked quarter basis versus year-over-year kind of caught my eye and itches just curious, it seemed to be in every business. Can you just elaborate on that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Don Layton, who's head of the newly named Chase Financial Services, will respond. 

 DONALD H. LAYTON, CHASE FINANCIAL SERVICES HEAD, JP MORGAN: Yeah. Judah, if you just do it at a macro level, virtually a hundred percent of the revenue decline is accounted for by the MSR hitch. It's almost to the penny. About $330 million. Everything else is pluses and minuses. It is true that the fourth quarter generally was weaker than the third but since the third quarter was a spectacular record breaker, I wouldn't have expected that to be multiplied by four situation anyway. 

 JUDAH KRASHOUR: Okay. Thank you. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Okay. Next questioner, to whom we shall apply strictly the McVeigh-Krashour rule of only two questions. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is coming from Andy Collins (ph) of U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. 

 ANDY COLLINS, U.S. BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY: Okay. I'll have two questions. First one is unrealized gains in the investment portfolio and swaps book. What might they be at this point? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We'll look up that ... 

 DINA DUBLON: I think it's over a billion dollars at the end of the year. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Okay. Over a billion? Okay. And the second question is: What does loan demand look like in terms of commercial, middle market, and consumer, if you could break it out. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think we don't see a significant amount of economic activity driving that demand. In addition, on the investment banking side, we are clearly focused on the price of credit, and on restricting credit among much more disciplined way to individual brokers. So our expectation is that commercial -- wholesale investment banking credit, outstandings, will probably continue to decline. Middle market, I think, is slightly up, but not indicative, I think, of any robust economic activity. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Okay. So in terms of overall loans, they might be flattish this year relative to ... 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think we'll see continuation of the same trends we've seen in the past, which is growth in consumer loans offset by declines in commercial loans. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Okay. Great. Thank you very much. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Mike Mayo (ph) of Prudential. 

 MIKE MAYO: Hi. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Hi, Mike. 

 MIKE MAYO: It seems like you're toning down your enthusiasm about consumer credit quality. What's happened the last several months? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Don, you want to respond to that? 

 DONALD H. LAYTON: Consumer credit quality this past year was much better than expected, given the economy, and (inaudible) in the industry. In addition, while some weakness in the industry has shown up in sub-prime, we are not a large sub-prime firm, and so we don't see those kind of statistics. As far as I can tell, from our internal numbers, credit quality in the fourth quarter was broadly consistent with the theme of continuing at a strong level and there's I suppose a few blips up and down. One of the blips, for example, was some extra bankruptcy charge-offs but that is largely related to the runup in those when the bankruptcy reform bill was in the house -- was in committee in October. That got charged off in December, and they've since returned to normal levels. 

 That bill, of course, did die. But we're concerned about the overall economy, but there's no particular prediction here that credit quality is going to be worse or anything like that. 

 MIKE MAYO: And one separate question. How low can your tier 1 capital ratio go before you run the risk of a potential rating downgrade? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I -- well, I think the answer to that is that the rating agencies believe we have adequate capital, and they are not as focused on a particular ratio. They're more focused on what are the risks that the company has, and how does the capital compare to those risks. 

 As Dina pointed out, some of these changes in the technical definition of the tier 1 capital do not change the risks of the company. We think there's very little risk from the securitized assets that we have and from the assets that are in conduits --(inaudible) conduits, and the rating agencies share that view. So whether they're on balance sheet or off balance sheet will change the ratio, but it doesn't change the capital relative to risks we have. And I think that's the view that the rating agencies take. In their written comments about us, I believe that they have been consistent in indicating that we have adequate capital. 

 MIKE MAYO: And your tier 1 capital ratio minimum guideline is? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We've been operating under a guideline of 8 to 8 and a quarter percent. I think that is something we'll probably be re-looking at in the first quarter, to take into account these various potential definitional changes as to whether we want to change that ratio or not. 

 MIKE MAYO: Okay. Thank you. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Next question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Mike Corsiniti (ph) of KBW. 

 MIKE CORSINITI, KBW: Great. Thanks. A quick question. Just following up on David's comments on securities gains, just looking back historically, it looked like each quarter, security gains have run somewhere between a 100 million and 200 million in terms of revenue, and have kind of bumped up here the last couple quarters, 575 and 750. Is there a change there? I mean, should we be normal icing at a higher rate now? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Let me make a comment on that and then ask David. The security gains this quarter were divided into two parts. Part -- and I think about equal -- were hedges of the changes in the value of mortgage servicing rights. So ... 

 UNIDENTIFIED: The whole year, that is true. Not just for the quarter. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yeah. But in terms of bumping up. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: Right. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: So in other words, part of what we do to hedge mortgage servicing rights is own securities, and then we realize the gains on those as prices move. So part of that was just normal hedging, where it came out flat. The gain in the securities was offset by a loss on mortgage servicing rights. 

 In the second instance, of the treasury and the securities gains that are recorded in the investment banking, it was higher this quarter than normal. I think that was resulting because we made good decisions on risk decisions relative to the portfolio, and they were simply harvesting some of those gains and taking gains as their views on interest rates changed. We manage for total return. We do not ask the people that manage that portfolio to take gains because we leave them for reported income. We manage for total return. And that's the way they've consistently run that portfolio over -- for more than a decade. 

 I think we've consistently positive results. They will vary from quarter to quarter, but that's the way we do it. 

 MIKE CORSINITI: Okay. I guess the follow-up, then, on the mortgage servicing side is: If rates went up and you had prepayments slow down, I would assume you would -- you would reverse the reserve and -- that you post against the mortgage servicing rights. Were the gains booked gains or are they mark-to-market gains? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: No. Those are booked gains. Well, those and security gains are booked gains, but we also have gains in derivatives which are offset on the same line item as mortgage servicing rights. So what would happen, that reserve would get reversed. There would be losses in the derivatives that hedge that portfolio. And there could be losses in the available for sale securities which may or may not be realized. 

 MIKE CORSINITI: Okay. And that -- but that should just pair off against the reverse on the impairment to the mortgage servicing? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: That's correct. 

 MIKE CORSINITI: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from John Coffey (ph) of Citigroup. 

 JOHN COFFEY, CITIGROUP: Yes. I noticed in your 10-Q this quarter that you had guided to private equity losses, I believe, similar to the first three quarters of the year. Can you explain the favorable variance there? And then I have another question as well. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think it's hard to predict markets, and I don't think we ever want to be -- I don't think we would ever say that we can be so precise as to estimate the next quarter for that particular line item or for many line items. I think all we're saying -- and obviously we were helped in the quarter by one significant IPO, and by the generally positive upward movement in our securities that are on a mark-to-market basis. 

 I think that, as a general rule, we can be a little bit more predictive about the year, and our feeling there is that losses should subside and opportunities for gains should increase, leading to improved results. 

 JOHN COFFEY: Okay. My second question relates to a segment that you don't really break out in any of your slides and it's the corporate segment which, you know, I would appreciate a little more explanation on. I think it cost you about 750 million this year, almost as much as the private equity segment. Could you talk about, you know, the source of those -- that loss and some sort of an outlook going forward? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: The biggest -- Dina, you want to do that? 

 DINA DUBLON: Sure. The largest contributor to the -- to the negative revenues we have in the sector is related to the fact that we over-allocate capital to the businesses, and therefore have negative -- have positive net interest income in each one of these businesses for the capital, and reverse that in the corporate sector. We also have, to the extent of, for example, tax-exempt transactions if it's -- tax-exempt investment, we would have the income growth in the lines of business and then reversed in the Corporate Center. So that's the largest contributor to the negative results for the corporate sector is negative revenues. 

 We will have -- we have a certain (ph) amount of our loan loss reserves which is unallocated, if you look at our financial disclosures. We have commercial, consumer, and unallocated. So changes to the unallocated provision or unallocated reserves will also go through un-distributing. So those are the largest items. 

 The SVA, the shareholder value added, of the corporate sector is significantly smaller because we have negative equity allocated to the sector. We do not allocate to the businesses the benefit of diversification that exists at the firm, so that's the main reason for over-allocation of capital to the businesses in the firm. Overallocation relative to the amount of equity. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Next question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Brock Vandersleight (ph) of Lehman Brothers. 

 BROCK VANDERSLEIGHT, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks very much. If we could circle back to credit quality, could you give us more sense -- I may have dropped off the call when you were listing it -- on merchant energy exposure, both outstanding and commitment, as well as the hundred million which went to the non-performing bucket this quarter? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yeah. That's a good opportunity for me, also, to indicate changes that we did internally within the bank, and the credit function. As some of you know, we've been operating for the past year or so, maybe a little bit longer, with a corporate credit policy group that kept their eye on most of the combined corporate numbers, and also had some other functions, and a wholesale bank credit group which did approval of transactions and hedging of our portfolio. 

 Last week, we announced that we were going to combine those two functions under Don McCree (ph), who has been heading the wholesale banking function and Don will now be the senior credit officer for the bank with retail having a dotted line responsibility to him, as well as for the wholesale functions. So Don, I think that would be a good question for you, if you can recall the question. 

 DON MCCREE: Yes. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Without the ... 

 DON MCCREE: I can even recall that that's Brock. Yes, Brock, you're correct that our merchant energy exposures overall have gone up slightly during the fourth quarter. That is entirely a function of a large European transaction to a well-rated company that we carry in the merchant energy exposures. It was offset by some reductions in our U.S. portfolio. Non-performers are up modestly due to two U.S. credits which have gone non-performing which were in our criticized book prior to the quarter. 

 The other thing you'll notice is, our overall criticized performing levels in the merchant energy sector have gone up as we put a number of -- of additional credits on the watch list for -- for probably the next quarter or two, as we see them work through their liquidity issues. As an entire -- you know, as an entire sector, we actually are feeling modestly better about the merchant energy sector, and the exposures we have, and have seen a number of companies began to --begin to right themselves during the last quarter or so. And the --the charge-off question, I think you asked, was one credit in Europe during the -- during the quarter. 

 BROCK VANDERSLEIGHT: And as a follow-up, why are you -- why are you feeling better? Why would the loss expectancy in merchant energy be, you know, dramatically lower than, say, in telecom? 

 DON MCCREE: I think twofold. One is we are -- we are moving through the restructuring process, and a number of specific credits who we had on the -- on the concern list have actually righted themselves and stabilized their liquidity picture. There is a series of asset sales going on in the sector which are coming towards fruition which is bringing cash into the merchant energy sector, and -- and I think if you look across our portfolio, in particular, and the sector in general, it's really over the next quarter or so where some large liquidity-raising exercise will happen in the markets that we have our focus on, but the market read we have right now is those -- those should go reasonably well. 

 By no means out of the woods, and as indicated by the fact that we've moved our credit size up during the quarter, we're still focused on the segment, but at the margin, we're feeling a little bit better than we were a quarter ago. 

 BROCK VANDERSLEIGHT: Good. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Ryan Tierney (ph) of Fox Pitt Kelton. 

 RYAN TIERNEY, FOX PITT KELTON: I have two questions. One is very short and the other one is a little more conceptual. First of all, you mentioned when you preannounced the settlement and everything that you would -- that the same factors that resulted in kind of a negative mark-to-market hit on your trading book in the third quarter went in your direction in the fourth quarter. 

 And given that, you know, your trading line was just kind of in line with the normal range, how much of the benefit of -- of -- how much of your trading number in the fourth quarter was a result of just kind of positive marks rather than just higher activity levels? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: David? 

 DAVID A. COULTER: Well, I think, you know, the -- it's a very dynamic process and as we move through the -- through the third quarter, certainly people's views of various markets changed a lot, and we adjusted, so I view it as -- the third quarter as a period of time in which we had some risk positions, moved against us, moved against us in more markets than was normal. We still operated within our -- all our risk parameters, and in a couple places we stepped back, righted ourselves, got our feet underneath us, and I think produced a much more normal quarter for some very large trading activities in the third. 

 We have Bill Winters sitting here. Bill, you might -- you want to make a comment on that from the fixed-income side. 

 WILLIAM T. WINTERS, INVESTMENT BANK, JP MORGAN: Yeah. I'd just comment that the trading line is the amalgamation of returns from discrete risk taking as well as our client activity in trading areas and we indicated in the (inaudible) that we always experience a seasonal downturn which we did in the third quarter, slightly more severe than normal because of the broader credit environment we think and the client environment returned much closer to normal in the fourth quarter. 

 Also, seasonally relatively week given the truncated December. Particularly which year's lengthened holiday period. But the decline activity has been very consistent, consistent to earlier seasonal patterns and through the fourth quarter. I think Dave's comments on the trading side were spot on. We were on the wrong side of many different relatively small risk positions in the third quarter and we were on the right side of many more in the fourth quarter, closer to normal. 

 RYAN TIERNEY: Okay. Let me just ask one more. If you guys -- you gave us some very interesting guidance. You said your expenses were going to be largely higher next year, your credit costs were kind of mixed. Commercial was going to be lower but retail would probably be higher. And you're a little cautious about expecting your consumer revenues to be as good as they were in last year's excellent year. 

 When I look at the estimates for the company, it's -- you know, even for the first quarter, we're looking for a significant pickup in earnings from where you're at right now. Is it -- is it fair to say that your year next year is going to really hang on a big recovery in your investment bank? 

 UNIDENTIFIED: No. I think we've been clear in saying that there are three or four points of leverage. First of all, we've been clear in saying we want to be able to produce an acceptable level of earnings, even in a poor environment, and I would cover -- say that an acceptable level of earnings is one that comfortably covers the dividend. 

 Secondly, there's a lot of leverage on the up side. One is improved credit. Second is improved investment banking revenue. Third is improved private equity. What we're saying is that we are cautious about when that will happen. We know it will happen. We just don't know when it will happen, and we're cautious about it happening in 2003. So that's the attitude we're going to take and we're going to try to make sure we keep expenses and risks in line with -- and capital in line with that attitude. If we get surprised, hopefully this time it will be on the up side. 

 RYAN TIERNEY: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from David Helder (ph) of Bear Stearns. 

 DAVID HELDER, BEAR STEARNS: Thank you. Just a question about how the Enron surety bond settlement might have affected the non-performing assets laid out on page 18 of your supplement. It looks to me as if, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, you had, of the 1.13 billion that had been NPA, 108 million ended up in NPA down at the bottom, and 125 up under derivative exposure. That sort of leaves 897 million. Of that, you had 400 million in the charge-off. Is it fair to think that the remaining 497 million was from the insurance payoff or ... 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yes. That's correct. 

 DAVID HELDER: So what I've outlined is the right way to look at that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Very much so. 

 DAVID HELDER: Okay. Thanks very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Stephen Eisemann (ph) of Chilton. 

 STEPHEN EISEMANN, CHILTON: Yeah. Two questions. You broke out some of the severance costs this quarter. I'm just trying to understand, will there be any more severance costs going forward the next few quarters? And my second question is: Could you just explain the pretty sharp decline in the credit card earnings for the quarter? I mean, losses were up but they -- that probably only detracted by maybe $5 million, so I just wanted to understand why the earnings are down so much sequentially in credit card. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Dina, you want to deal with the first question? 

 DINA DUBLON: Yeah. Just -- I need a reminder. I'm sorry, I wasn't concentrating. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Severance. 

 DINA DUBLON: Severance. We -- in severance, we talked about severance, you know, as being $250 million as compared to what was 900 million for the total year of 2002. And we said that that 250 million was going to be concentrated in the first half of the year. Second question was about our credit card performance. You were looking at it on a linked quarter basis? 

 STEPHEN EISEMANN: It was 242 million in the third quarter on an operating basis, and it dropped to 152 million in the fourth quarter. 

 DINA DUBLON: Yes, okay. Don? 

 DONALD H. LAYTON: Yeah. A few things going on there. One, volumes in the fourth quarter were weaker than normal seasonal, and this broadly in the industry is attributed to people financing themselves more by refinancings or home equity sources of funds, and so nothing so credit card intensive, so that hurt a bit on the revenue side. Second is that expenditures were high, as we have been investing in marketing, and that -- some of that is seasonal into the fourth quarter, which should produce revenue into next -- sorry, this -- now this year. Other than that, it was just some normal ups and downs. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think one point we should make in ... 

 STEPHEN EISEMANN: That's a lot of normal ups and downs in three months. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think -- I think the point that Don covered were the ones that were relevant. In particular, the point I would try to make is increase in marketing expenses. I think as we look at our credit -- have looked at our credit card business over the years, we have felt that our operating expenses were in line, but that we had under-invested in marketing, and that, of course, is a business where the payoff on marketing is pretty scientifically easy to measure. So one thing that we have tried to do this year, even in spite of a poor overall year, is to up the stroke on credit card marketing and I think that accounts for a substantial part of the increase .... 

 STEPHEN EISEMANN: Okay. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: ... of the decrease in earnings or increase in expenses. 

 STEPHEN EISEMANN: Thank you very much. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Last question. 

 OPERATOR: Our final question will be coming from Adam Hurwitz (ph) of Ulysses Management. 

 ADAM HURWITZ, ULYSSES MANAGEMENT: Good afternoon. Just, could you break out for us -- you juxtaposed the $700 million in savings under the investment banking section of the earnings release with 2000 -- a 2000 reduction in staffing. Since that works out to $350,000 per individual, there are obviously other things that you're counting on to hit the 700 million. Could you just break it out for us? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Yeah, we can. David, you want to do that? 

 DAVID SIDWELL: Yeah. Off the -- I might have ... 

 MARC SHAPIRO: David Sidwell (ph) is our Chief Financial Officer of the investment bank. 

 DAVID SIDWELL: A large part of our savings here are the assumed incentives that also go along with some of those headcount reductions so obviously that drives up the average cost in connection with the large number of (inaudible) heads that were let go and most of those reductions were largely achieved in the fourth quarter. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think of the 700 million, about 500 million or so -- maybe a little bit more -- was employment-related - compensation-related. And the other would be facilities or other activities that we're going to close. 

 Okay. That's -- we appreciate those questions. They're good ones, and that concludes our meeting. We - as I said, we do feel encouraged by results of the fourth quarter. We are cautious about the environment that we're in, but we feel very good about our prospects in that environment. Thank you very much. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation. This does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020030123dz1m0005u
  


 HD
 Q3  2002 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
11,288 words
   PD
16 October 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the J.P. Morgan Chase third quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for questions and comments following the presentation. If you have a question, please press 1 followed by 4 on your touch-tone phone and if at any point your question has been answered, you may remove yourself from the queue by pressing the pound key. 

   TD
 The conference call today may contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of J.P. Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in our quarterly reports on form 10Q for the quarters ended June 30th, 2002, and March 31st, 2002, and ended annual report on form 10K. Each filled with the securities and exchange commission available at the Securities and Exchange Commission internet site, HTTP HTTP://www.SEC.Gov. 

 As a reminder, all parties that are press will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call. It is my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Bill Harrison. Sir, the floor is yours. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR., CHAIRMAN, CEO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our third quarter earnings discussion. As you are well aware of our September 17th preannouncement, third quarter earnings are very disappointing. And now that the books are closed on the quarter, we want to thor rely review our results with, provide transparency and discuss the actions we're taking to address this performance. 

 Joining me today are a number of the members of the executive committee who will participate in this call and the Q&A. Making prepared remarks that follow the sequence of the call handouts that you have will be Marc Shapiro that will talk about our credit performance and Dina Dublon will go through our financial highlights and David Coulter will review the actions we're taking in our investment bank to address the market downturn. But bring turn it over to Marc, let me make a few brief comments at the outset. We are very, as you would expect, and I know you are, too, very disappointed with our financial results, not only for this quarter, but in our prior quarters. We have made some mistakes, as we've talked about before. 

 In my opinion, our mistakes have been mistakes of execution and not of strategy, and in particular, our mistakes in terms of what has uniquely hurt us on the downside has been too much concentration in the telecom space and in equity and lending and we have been and continue to take actions to deal with that. On the good news front, our retail and operating service business performed very well in the quarter, and clearly the issues that are impacting our overall performance of concentrated in the wholesale banking market and the market sensitive areas, investment banking and J.P. Morgan Partners in particular. 

 The mid term environment remains challenging as we all know, but we took significant actions to address credit portfolio values and investment bank, and have continued to actively assess the value in our private equity business. We are responding to how our current business mix matches up against today's environment accordingly. We've gone through very detailed scenario reviews for each line of business and have developed action plans to manage our performance. 

 We're focusing on the things we can manage, doing this thoughtfully, considering the long-term impact on our strategy, our competitive position and, of course, our people. These actions that we are taking and we'll talk about this morning do not detract in any way from our commitment to our long-term strategy and the broad status capabilities we have assembled over the past five years. We like the business platform that we have created. We like the value of the diversity of the franchise, meaning the value of wholesale being the leader in wholesale and being a leader in consumer, and I think this market, with some other results you've seen, sort of highlight that issue. 

 On the wholesale banking front, we continue to value the integrative model. We think that is the winning model for delivering wholesale services, and it's based on leadership positions with clients and good people, which I believe we have. The actions that David Coulter will talk about there that we have taken in investment banking do not impair our ability to execute that vision, in our opinion. 

 Now, let me make a few final comments on the -- what we're announcing today. The actions in investment banking, which are significant, David Coulter will suggest. They will involve substantial additional layoffs, and this is really all about sizing our investment banking platform to reflect a very weak revenue environment that we're in that could continue for sometime. But it does not change the fundamental strategy, as I mentioned earlier, by an integrated financial platform. These actions are an important first step, but not complete as a firm-wide matter. We'll continue to look across the firm at opportunities to improve performance both to capitalize on revenue opportunities and to improve efficiency. So let me stop there and ask Marc Shapiro to comment on the credit outlook and the actions we're taking with regard to credit. Marc? 

 MARC SHAPIRO, HEAD OF FIN., RISK MANAGEMENT AND ADMIN., J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, Bill. I do want to focus on the commercial credit portfolio. Dina will make the comments later about the consumer side where we've had continuing positive trends in terms of lower late fees and improving chargeoff ratios. Clearly, the issue for us right now is the commercial portfolio. One of the ways we try to address it with the investment community is being very open about where the issues are and trying to give you more data. 

 As you will see in this presentation and in this supplemental material that we provided with our press release, more data about our loans and so-called credit-related assets, which include derivatives receivables and about our commitments to lend. And the ratings classifications of those commitments. If you look at our total commercial exposure on Page 3, will you find it's unchanged since the beginning of the year, about $425 billion. That's loans of about a little less than $100 billion, derivative receivables of about $85 billion and other commitments to lend. 

 That portfolio is overwhelmingly an investment rate portfolio, 80% is investment grade, and the non-investment grade, though, we have had some deterioration, and to more criticize categories and also some deterioration within the criticized category into nonperforming. That shows up clearly on page 4 where you see the criticizing exposures increasing from the $12 billion at the beginning of the year to $16.7 billion today. Again, this is loans and derivatives on our balance sheet and commitments that are not on our balance sheet. The total of those criticized at $16.7 billion. What's interesting about this slide is that all of the increase, more than 100% of the increase since the first of the year, is in four categories. One of those categories is emerging markets, primarily Brazil. Certainly the change from June 30 to 9/30 is in Brazil. 

 The three segments I want to talk about in more detail is telecom and related cable and merchant energy related. Those categories account for most of the increase in criticized and 80% of the increase in nonperforming loans. We have more detail and the rest of the portfolio, it would appear from these statistics and from other data that we have, is reasonably stable and in good shape. If you look at page 5, it gives more detail on telecom and related, and, again, it points out here credit-related assets and our commitment. If you would add the two together, you would get our total exposure. What's apparent here is that our exposure is down, has come down since the first of the year and has come down quite a bit since the beginning of last year. This was the largest nonfinancial component of our credit portfolio at about 6% of total exposure. Today, it's down to about 4% with the prospect that it will go lower. 

 The investment grade on our assets is about half of our outstanding asset and about two-thirds of our commitment what has happened is the non-investment grade, there's been a shift to a lower category, both criticized and nonperforming. Our view, as we expressed in September, is that we've taken a harsh view of the current reality that we have dealt with most of the problems in this area. Unless we see significant deterioration among the big cap investment grade names that I think we probably have dealt with most of the issues that are in telecom. There are obviously some of significant criticized loans that could deteriorate, but in this condition, we think a lot of what is going to happen has already happened. 

 When you look at cable, it's an interesting tale of two worlds, about half of our credit-related assets and two-thirds of our commitment are in the United States, and in that area, generally speaking, cable has performed very well. We have one well publicized nonperforming loan on which we don't expect any significant loss. In Europe on the other hand, we have had half of our credit-related assets and about 30% of our commitment. We've seen almost all of the cable companies deteriorate into a non-investment grade and largely criticized category. The reason for that is the European cable companies made a much larger investment in broadband technology and those investments have not proven to pay off. In many cases there, we have credit outstanding at an operating company level and a holding company level So we do not expect to see the level of losses we've had in telecom, but we do have significant problems and it has accounted for a significant part of the growth in both nonperformers and criticized. 

 The third area I want to highlight is merchant energy. It's a very broad definition of any company who conducts energy trading activity and whose liquidity has been hampered by their involvement in energy trading markets. That goes all the way from those that are compensated in that business to the electric utilities which are more conventional but which have had some trading activities which have harmed their overall access to capital. There commitiment were largely investment grade, we have had on our [INAUDIBLE] loan some deteriation and we expect that we will have further deterioration [INAUDIBLE] Most of these loans, most of the companies have hard assets and the recovery situation would be much higher than the other two categories that we talked about. 

 I think the question is going forward, what can we do to improve our management practices, and pointed out on page 8, we have two significant things that we added to it over the past 90 days. And really, they are much higher limits by industries and by borrower. As we said, we thought we had reduced industry concentration a great deal. We have to do so further to the point where no one industry outside of the financial area constitutes more than 3% or 4% of our portfolio. And secondly, we have to deal with issuers, even large investment grade names need to have smaller total borrowing limits and that's what we're working on over a period of time. 

 With that, I would like to -- I know you have more questions, but at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Dina to give a more general review of our financial results, and then I'll be happy to answer your questions. 

 DINA DUBLON, CFO, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, Marc. Good morning to all of you. I am now on Slide 10, discussing bottom line results. There were just -- the difference between reported and operating, though, is primarily merger and related charges, which we identify as nonoperating. For the quarter, they were 430 million pre tax, about half the level of last year's third quarter. We expect about 350 million in such nonoperating charges in the fourth quarter, bringing the totals for the year to the 1.2 billion previously disclosed. On an operating basis, EPS was 16 cents a share, significantly below prior periods. Beginning in 2002, any costs associated with new actions to reduce the expense stage are included in our operating results. 

 The large reduction in earnings in Slide 11 was driven by a significant increase in commercial credit costs and lower trading revenue in the investment bank as announced a month ago. Revenues were down 8% from the second quarter and down 5% from the third quarter last year. We continue to reduce expenses, but not enough to upset higher credit costs. Return on equity was 3% for the quarter. For the nine months, revenues were almost flat and expenses were down 7%. The increase in credit costs accounted for the 23% declining earnings year to date. ROE was 9% versus 11% last year. Both periods results are too low and much lower than our potential earnings capacity. Two key points we are addressing this morning are with the weakness in market businesses, the other two segments, retail and operating services are supporting the 9% and 11% return on equity for the term, and we are addressing the performance shortfall through actions in risk management and in bank businesses. 

 Slide 13, credit costs. Commercial chargeoffs at 830 million, nearly tripled from the second quarter driven by names in the telecommunications and cable sectors. Managed credit card chargeoffs declined 10% to 687 million with the chargeoff ratio at 5.5%, almost 100 basis points below the 6.4% last quarter. The card business complied with the proposed guidelines with no increasing provision and, therefore, no financial impact. We have now identified 189 million in the consumer reserves against interest and fee receivables for managed delinquent accounts. We added to the reserve account a total of 570 million, equally between the reserves for loan losses and reserves for off-balance sheet commercial commitments. Nonperforming assets are at 1.1 billion, to 5.5 billion despite the 800 million in commercial chargeoffs, reflecting the deterioration [INAUDIBLE] -- loan reserves were up. Total loan loss reserves to nonperforming loans declined this quarter to 128%. We have been charging off loans, recognizing lower recovery value in the telecom sector once loans are impaired. Nonperforming cell phone credits are being carried at 30% over regional book. The more aggressive we are in charging off bad credit, the lower the reserves for the remaining book value of nonperforming loans. 

 Slide 16, expenses are down 7% from both the second quarter this year and the third quarter last year. We have diverging expense trends in the wholesale expenses down 15% from a year ago, primarily from reduced compensation. In retail, expenses are up 14% from increases in volume and head count and higher marketing and amortization of the premiums in cards. 120 million of restructuring charges, those are operating restructuring charges, slowed through expenses this quarter. None were included as operating last year. The ratio in the next slide was 8.6%. We have little to no growth in liquidated assets and commercial loans are down 7%. Retained earnings were negative this quarter. 

 We addressed dividends on September 17th with the board expressing its intent to continue the current dividend level provided the capital ratios remain strong and earnings prospects exceed the current dividend. This quarter, we were downgraded one notch by the rating agencies. The holding company is now the single A rating, and [INAUDIBLE] -- at the lower AA rating. We have managed our liquidity position in light of the issues facing us. At the holding company, we have sufficient cash to repay all obligations over the last 12 months without exiting the market. We have had no problem in exiting the market. We have seen spread widen on our terms as well as the subordinated notes. 

 Turning to the lines of business, Slide 17, retail and middle market again posted record revenue and earnings in a very benign environment. Earnings of 800 million are almost double the level last year, driven by revenue growth of 30%. Homes financed produced record earnings. Hedging gains exceeded the write-downs in the value of MSRs by about 300 million. We also have large unrealized gains in the securities portfolio used to hedge the servicing right. With low rates and favorable spreads, we had higher production, servicing fees and interest income. In cards, earnings were up 90%, 40% excluding provision. We had full conversion of Providian to our facilities. Return on equity was 30% for the quarter and 26% for the nine months. To normalize the quarter's results, we would use pre tax income by about 250 million. 

 For year-to-date, we might reduce these by about 500 million pre tax. This would still leave us with an adjusted return on equity for the quarter and year to date at the [INAUDIBLE] l high of 24% and 22%, with overhead ratios of 48% to 49%. If you normalize the results for hedging gains in mortgage, there are few other items one can normalize for in this quarter. Treasury and security services earnings were up over 20% from both last quarter and third quarter last year. We had 50 million gain on the sale of an investment in an overseas clearing firm, explaining the revenue growth of 4% to 5% from prior periods. [INAUDIBLE] upset by institutional trust and treasury services. Return on equity was 28% for the quarter and 24% year to date. The overhead ratio was down to 68%. Continued weak markets will pressure revenue growth. Returns here have remained stable and very attractive. 

 Investment management and private banking on Slide 19, income of 98 million was 10% to 20% lower than prior periods, because of declining global equity values and lower investor activity. Revenue declines of 5% and 9% are in line with the industry. Compensation expense has hit bottom, so with revenue decline, the pre tax margin was 17%, down from about 20% in prior periods. Assets under management of 492 billion was down 15% from a year ago, driven equally by outflows from the institutional business and market depreciations. Assets under management, including our 45% in American Century was 524 billion. Investment performance in our U.S. institutional core equity discipline is weak. 

 Performance of international investment management continues to be excellent. The outlook for the near term is negative, given the extent of market declines just in the last month. I'm on Slide 20. J.P. Morgan Partners saw more of the same this quarter. High level of write-downs and write-offs with limited gains the higher loss was driven by the public portfolio which had a book value of less than 500 million by quarter end. In the private portfolio, we had high write-downs and [INAUDIBLE]. In the near term, there are limited oportunities for exit and realized gains. Over the last year, our investments in [INAUDIBLE] has come down, diversification has improved the hard way through concentrated write-down. P&P has declined from 32% of the portfolio to 18%, industrial growth has increased from 20% to 24%. Telecom accounted for the majority of the T&T decline. Less than 400 million of telecom investments remain on our book. With the private portion at only 320 million. 

 We will continue to reduce our exposure to the asset class as we are able to sell companies out of the portfolio, have a slower investment fee and by reducing our share of investments made. Turning to the investment bank on Slide 22, ID had a loss of 250 million. Expenses are down primarily incentive, but the overhead ratio is up to 68%. Severance-related charges of about 80 million are included in the operating expense line. Excluding these charges, the overhead ratio was 64%. 

 For the fourth quarter, we will have about 50 million of such charges from existing programs plus 300 million in charges associated with the actions we are announcing today, depressing fourth quarter results. Year-to-date return on equity is 7%, and we are committed to improving our financial returns in the business. Slide 23 shows trading revenues at the top in total capital markets revenues at the bottom. Trading revenues of 370 million are down about 70%, reflecting losses on positions, especially in the early part of the quarter, as well as the seasonal slowdown in client flow. Income is down 40% to 50%, primarily from positions in interest rate market, in merging markets, trading revenues were higher than in the second quarter. Equities had a trading loss of 250 million coming from equity derivatives convertibles and cash securities. The bottom half of the slide provides a more complete picture of revenues in our market's businesses. 

 Better reflecting the management approach and organization. The fixed income and equities line now include commission and for fixed income, it includes revenues from global credit portfolio management. We also showed the revenues in global treasury, which manages the firm's interest rate risk and investment securities activity. The 610 million of treasury revenue includes about 450 million of securities gain. The total return includes unrealized gains or losses on investment securities where the value is up, as well as unrealized gains and losses on the firm's transfer price SS and long-term liability where the value is down as rates decline. This is how we manage the business. Revenues on this basis of 1.7 billion are down from 28% from prior periods. 

 In the next slide, I would like to address recurring questions about our trading results. Are we taking larger risk positions now? Are we measuring and controlling risks properly? Value at risk, or VAR, in our mark to market activities in the third quarter was comparable to value at risk in the first six months. The decline in revenues does not represent increased levels of daily trading risks, nor volatility that is in excess of what is predicted by far. The slide shows the histogram of market related revenue. In the first nine months , or 189 days, we had 25 days of negative market revenue. 16 out of these 25 days, or two-thirds were in the third quarter. The larger number of daily losses reflect the outcome of positioning. As you can see in the insect, no losses exceeded bar. 

 I'm now on Slide 25. We have maintained our leadership position in syndicated lending and U.S. investment grade bonds and made progress in equities. Year-to-date market volumes for all products are down, so revenues are lower. Investment bank fees for the quarter were down over 30% from both periods. It was the worst quarter in over three years for the industry. At the end of September, the pipeline for advisory was 10% below June and 30% below last year. The pipeline for underwriting is also lower than June, primarily in equities. Our business model has been severely criticized. The effects do not point to a loss of business or a loss of confidence from clients. Market activity's down and we need to adjust to that. Credit costs are higher than we expected because we did not manage concentrations down across the board. Credit costs are, and we believe will remain, significantly lower than in previous recessions. In the long run, with proper execution, we continue to believe this will be the winning business model. 

 In summary, three take-aways -- Diversification benefits are apparent but not suspicion to impact the weakness of capital markets and downturn in credit. Results have been far below our expectations. Two, maintaining our waitings and having financial flexibility is important, so we will continue to manage tightly capital and liquidity. And the action part. We can improve our risk management practices. Marc has talked with that. And we can control expenses. Dave Coulter will take you through the initiative. Dave? 

 DAVE COULTER, HEAD OF INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT & PRIVATE BANKING AND INVESTMENT BANK, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you, Dina. Our outlook for I.B.outline revenue growth, Slide 28, for the remainder of this year and in 2003 is bearish. I don't think that's any different from the rest of the marketplace, but we clearly need to adjust to it. So today, we're announcing and describing a program which we've been working on for the last month or two. The punch line is it will result in 700 million of run rate saves and allow us to target for 2003 a return on equity for the investment bank in what we view as a [INAUDIBLE] of downturn of a 12% ROE and a 60% expense to revenue or overhead ratio. We don't think these kinds of reductions impact our overall strategy. We still have very strong space in the strategic framework for the investment banking business, and that relates to, first of all, recognizing economic reality and adjusting to it. 

 Secondly, recognizing the strength of this client base, which is global and matches up well with our global footprint. We have an extremely strong client base, but we don't need to have to go out and get today. We have them and currently do a wide range of business with that client base. So the name of the game is how do we continue to integrate our broad product offering through the client base? We think we do that with execution and distinguishing yourself in execution in the downturn we think is key, and we think we do that by continuing to invest in world-class people, and believe that that is really the key differentiating strategy. 

 I'll turn to Slide 29. We think about facing this slowdown in I.B. outlook and how we adjust to it. We really go through a set of what I regard as normal decisions. First of all, you look at products which are dragging down SBA growth today. The two key product areas are equities and credit. Marc has talked about credit, and so I'll keep my following comments to equity. You look at geography and ask yourself, how are you positioned in various geographics around the world. You look at your product delivery functions, and ask yourself, are we focused on the right sectors, and are we doing it efficiently? And at the same time you do those things, I think you cannot lose sight during a downturn of continuing to invest in areas of leadership. And we certainly view a number of our fixed income business as areas of leadership, and we don't want to starve those in a period of a slowdown. You also have to be mindful of maintaining our credibility of managing the credit portfolio and managing ratings in terms of what that does on our business. 

 Slide 30 begins to describe, and I'll do this quickly at a very high level, but happy to take any follow-on questions, how we adjust to the environment. First relates to products. I mentioned the two key product areas where we have negative SBA results today. Our credit and equity. Not only do we have negative SBA results, but in part, that's due to the overall industry revenues being down 50% from 2000 and a range of regulatory changes we're faced with. We do believe we need to adjust, but we also believe we have a number of things going right for us in the equities business today. We've had, for a period of time, a very strong equity derivatives franchise. That business is not as profitable as it was in 1999 and 2000. But we are confident about its long-term profitability, and we'll continue to invest in it. We've also been able to build share in the equity convertibles business. We think that relates to the strength of our client franchise and we think that's the key for our cash equities business going forward. 

 This period of change in the equities business, we are certainly going to focus more our cash equities resources. That means take expenses out of the sales and trading functions, equity capital market functions and research function. We think that really, though, relates to a push for focusing more on near-term profitability than cable rating. I want to stress that we believe we can still be very successful in the cash equities business. It relates to looking where we get business from today, that is from our existing client franchise, which we already do a light range of transactional and capital raising activity for and continuing to lever that client franchise into our cash equities activity. We've done a great job there in terms of adjusting to this environment. 

 The next slide, 31, relates to improving the productivity of client coverage in origination function. Simply, this is just looking at the end-to-end process, asking how many people we need in this environment, both in the client executive and industry groups as well as the product execution groups, taking a look at sectors and trying to evaluate the wallet potential of that sector and adjusting, and that's what we're doing here. 

 Slide 32 relates to footprint, focusing on Asia and Latin America. Our objective is to at least be SBA neutral in these regions in the downturn. Latin America is a little different than Asia in the sense that we don't expect a lot of near-term top-line revenue growth, so that influences us in terms of taking capital out of the region and focusing more on the advisory business. In Asia, we will be spending a lot of time on our middle and back office infrastructure and trying to shift that into low-cost operating environments. Also, in Japan, which is a negative SBA drag today, we are scaling back the business in a number of areas. I guess the most significant of which is we are reducing our presence in the domestic cash equities business in Japan. I think it's very hard to compete there and make money. We are keeping our presence, though, in terms of the equities business that relates to selling international securities in the Japan or Japanese securities into the international marketplace. 

 Slide 33 just relates to operating infrastructure. Let me go through periods like this, you take a hard look at the technology queue, take a hard look at your back offices and, as I said earlier, try to put those in low-class operations, and finally make sure you're doing the same things on the support side. Slide 7 -- I'm sorry, Slide 34, just summarizes the initiatives, as I said, the top target operating overhead ratio of 60% in 2003 as well as the 12% ROE, 700 million in run rate savings, 450 million of severance and restructuring costs to get it done and head count reductions of over 2,000. I'd put a number of about 2,200 in terms of positions within the IB today. About 1,800 of those reductions will be done in the fourth quarter, and as Dina said, I think she said about 300 million of severance and restructuring costs will occur in the fourth quarter. So I'll turn it back to you. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think at this time we're open for questions and we'll take those questions on the phone. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. If you do have a question, please press 1 followed by 4 on your touch-tone phone. If you are on a speakerphone, we do ask you pick up your handset to minimize background noise and if at any point your question has been answered, you may remove yourself from the queue by pressing the pound key. Our first question is from Judith Crashour of Merrill Lynch. 

 JUDITH CRASHOUR, MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, everybody. Three question, I'll just start asking them all together. First, on the investment bank restructuring, curious what your plans are for Europe and why you couldn't get all the severance charges into the fourth quarter. You know, it would seem like you've done a lot of work to identify staff cuts. Why can't you get the charges in earlier? Two, the derivatives receiveables was up 17 billion, 18 billion this quarter and curious what's driving that and the risk management efforts to make sure there's no risk there? And lastly, it looked like there was a real estate reserve of 98 million set aside. Just curious on what your view is on commercial real estate. 

 DAVE COULTER: Okay. Jude, I will take the first IB-related question. In terms of Europe, although the competitive environment and the competitive results for us in Europe were pretty attractive now, we've been number one in Europe in the third quarter, they're going through the same, I think, generalized environment here as we are in the U.S., so the changes we're making in terms of the origination issues or the equities exchanges are impacting Europe I won't say --some of what we're doing, especially in the back office, in terms of moving out of high-cost locations and centralizing locations in low-cost it doesn't involve moving people around, and that is challenging in an environment where you have a lot of transactions so a lot of that will not occur until the middle of next year. When I give you the targets for '0 3, I'm taking that into account. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: With regard to the other two questions, derivatives are up due to underlying changes and interest rates and particular currencies. When you have volatility and the changes in the underlying nature of the contract, and people are less more money, it tends to go up on both sides. There's no underlying change in the business or the nature of the business. Finally, with regard to real estate, we do see some increase in real estate costs. We have been in a transition from getting rid of real estate and acquiring real estate. We probably will have decreases in head count below where we thought we were, so we'll have some excess real estate, but normally speaking, just an ongoing run rate, I'll expect our occupancy expenses to go up a little bit next year. 

 JUDITH CRASHOUR: Okay. So that was a proprietary real estate issue, not loans to real estate? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Oh, no, no, just our real estate occupancy. 

 JUDITH CRASHOUR: Just finally, assume the saves you get, is that all going to be realized next year or is that sort of a run rate? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: No, that's all going to be realized next year. 

 JUDITH CRASHOUR: Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question is coming from Diane Glossman of UBS Warberg. 

 DIANE GLOSSMAN, UBS WARBERG: Good morning, everyone. Two questions for you. One, Dave, could you talk a little bit about the comp to revenue ratio that you're currently achieving and aiming for? And, also, your comp per employee, and how important these were in setting your new target levels for head count? The other is, you mentioned both converts and the equity derivatives business as drivers for your equity effort overall. Given your relatively mid-tier position in the cash equity business, which also reaches into the relative weakness in your research business, how do you feel about the current regulatory discussions on the issue of conflicts with investment banking and how are you setting yourselves up to hopefully meet --any framework changes impacting the business going forward? 

 DAVE COULTER: Okay, Diane. On the comp revenue ratios, you know, you do have to be careful of comparing us to some of the other players that don't have credit portfolios, but I'd say we're somewhat in the 48% to 52% range going forward. One of the things that certainly went into our thinking in terms of producing these run rate savings and then asking how do we achieve a 12% ROE and still hang on to the best people was that we were probably going to have to pay, although comp per employee will clearly be down in '02, we wanted to make sure that we had the resources to hang on to the people that we really needed to hang onto going through this downturn. So it factored into our thinking from the standpoint of we need to make sure we have enough on the downside and we have to free up some resources to get there probably to live to the upside. I'm giving a bit of a generalized response, but that's the way we thought about it. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Just we think about it in terms of running the business that way, but we're also making certain adjustments to try to make our numbers more comfortable to investment bank. So in a way it shows up on the financial statement, it will be lower than 48 to 50 -- 

 DINA DUBLON: In fact, 32% for the quarter. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Right. It's in the 30s. What we're do something making adjustments when we talk about that type of number. 

 DAVE COULTER: Okay. Final thing about research, Diane, is I guess we certainly are complying with all the new rules as they get implemented, seemingly daily. We are a part of the discussions related to how does research evolve and how do you ensure the independence of the function while controlling the touch points between the investment bank. I guess we are -- we are a low-cost player on the research side toe. I guess we think as this issue moves forward, it may move in our direction, so in that sense, it's not unfavorable. 

 DIANE GLOSSMAN: Okay, thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Henry McVee of Morgan Stanley. 

 HENRY MCVEE, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. Just a couple quick questions. It says a tax on the private equity -- let me get to this -- that a lot of -- you said the third quarter, 2002, results were driven by write-downs and write-offs on the private holdings, but when you look at the disclosures, it looks like the private holdings were flat to up, so can you help me with that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Sure. We made new investments during the quarter. 

 HENRY MCVEE: Okay. So how much did you make in new investments? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: It would be around 300 million would be my guess. 

 HENRY MCVEE: Okay. All right. Second thing, I was just -- you were trying to help us get to the run rate of normal, and I just wanted to make sure I have this right. The kind of one-timers during the quarter were 80 million in terms of severance, as you would add that back, and then you had 50 million gain in treasury, 67 million comp reversal, and then I think -- and then the 465 from the total return, and on the retail side, did you say 250, an does the 250, besides the mortgage part, does that also include reserve releases? 

 DINA DUBLON: I'm not sure I can follow all the numbers that you concede recurring versus what I consider recurring, so I suggest that we follow up on those issues, follow up with investor relations. I did make the comment that in the consumer -- in the retail bank in total, we would normalize earnings for the quarter at about -- taking out about 250 million in revenue for the quarter and about 500 million -- a little over 500 million for year-to-date basis. That's really taking into account primarily not only, but primarily the unusual hedging gains we have had in mortgage servicing rights. 

 HENRY MCVEE: Were there reserve releases on the card side? 

 DINA DUBLON: No, we totalled what we had is credit costs that were comparable to charge-offs. We had an identification within the consumer business of reserves as against fees and interest on billing accounts, which is what is being proposed by the [FICA] to be one of the new elements in the reserving for cards. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think we would have had a reserve release of about $100 million if the accounting regulations on that issue had not changed. So basically, that cost about $100 million, and as a result, our provision in consumer is about the same. 

 DINA DUBLON: Right. And again, the amount identified again the [FFIC] is about $190 million. 

 HENRY MCVEE: Okay. Just one final up for Marc. On the credit, which is very helpful, you went through the different areas, and at the end you kind of said on merchant energy and related, you said, you know, if you were expecting softness in one area, this would be it. What do you -- obviously, there's been a lot of noise there. Anything in particular that you want to highlight to us that made you want to say that? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: No, I think in the news lately, there's nothing significant there for us. I do think that to the extent that we have an increase in non -- if we have an increase in nonperforming loans in the fourth quarter, I would expect that that would be the area that it might come from. 

 HENRY MCVEE: Okay. All right, guys, thanks. 

 DAVE COULTER: Marc, just to add to that, you may have said this, if we do end up with an increase in nonperforming loans in the merchant energy area, we wouldn't expect to have significant chargeoffs, because of the assets and the basic cash flows of those franchises. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: That's right. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Ron Mandel of GIC. 

 RON MANDEL, GIC: Hi, folks. I was -- I had a question regarding what you were projecting in the 12% ROE and the cost cuts and so on about the outlook for commercial credit costs, for next year, for the investment bank , when I tried to put your numbers together on the back of the envelope it seemed like it was 400 million a quarter but I was wondering if you'd elaborate on that? 

 DAVE COULTER: Obviously, when I say we're targeting an ROE level in 2003 of 12%, it has plain estimates for all of the components of the income statement, and I'm not going to get in the business of projecting credit losses for '03, at least in a public forum. 

 RON MANDEL: Is my back of the envelope calculation in the ballpark, do you think? 

 DAVE COULTER: No. 

 RON MANDEL: Excuse me? 

 DAVE COULTER: No. 

 RON MANDEL: No? Would you elaborate? 

 DAVE COULTER: No, as in "no comment." 

 RON MANDEL: Oh, okay. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from John Coffey of City Group. 

 JOHN COFFEY, CITI GROUP: Yeah, I wondered if you could give us some figures on the actual head count in the investment bank as you define it, where it was, say, at the peak and where it is -- where do you expect it to be after the cut of 2,200 jobs. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: Yeah, John, I'm looking to David Sidwell, the CFO of the IB and going to have him either hand me a little note here or do them -- we have about 16,000 today, so we're talking about 2,200 positions on top of that, and, David, at the peak, it was about 25,000 at the peak, I guess, around merger time. 

 RON MANDEL: Okay, you said 16,000 today? One-six? 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: Yes. 

 RON MANDEL: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Richard Strauss of Goldman Sachs. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS, GOLDMAN SACHS: Okay, thank you. Marc, just looking at the telecom, it just seems that, you know, that the percentage of this that is nonperforming right now is still relatively very small, and, you know, we have a lot of noninvestment grade stuff here, and, I mean, I'm just -- why shouldn't we have a sense that there is just a lot more to come? I mean, forget energy, you know, telecom. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Well, I think when you get into a position like this, and especially when you have the liquidity impact and capital market close, the deterioration seems to happen fairly simultaneous for lots of these people. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: It doesn't seem like that's been happening now. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: No, I mean a lot of it happened, I think, in the third quarter. And I think the question is whether the firms that have been able to weather it so far will continue to weather it. And you get to a point where basically you get survivors and nonsurvivors. Now, I wouldn't say that we're totally at that point, but, you know, it's unlikely that you'll have -- seems unlikely to me that you'll have a much further deterioration in this sector. You could. I think, you know, it depends on how things play out. But you do get to a point where the people that have survived are going to survive, because they have -- they're able to weather the storm -- the liquidity storm. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: Hmm. Also, can you maybe refresh my memory on what your strategy is now in JPMP, because you said to Henry that you put what seems to be a fair amount of money to work in the quarter given that DINA mentioned there were substantial write-downs in private equity. Where should we be thinking of this portfolio in terms of where you want this to be ultimately? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Where we want it to be -- 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: I know where you want it to be, but in terms of putting new money to work over the course of the next couple of years. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Well, what we've said is we'd probably be investmenting about $1 billion a year. That's down from $3 billion to $4 billion a year. That's consistent with the third-party funds we have raised in terms of commitment. Some of that depends on opportunities. Our goal over time, the next three years, is to reduce the total balance sheet -- book value to about 15% of equity. Right now, it's 20% of equity. And people -- it was 37% of equity. That's what the goal is. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: Okay. And then one actually final question to Bill. You know, Bill, I would think that from your point of view, you know, if you really thought the stock was cheap that you would be aggressively buying back like you've never bought back before, and so maybe you could just give us your position on this. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: Yes. We have excess capital, we would consider doing the smart thing with that capital. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: Right. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: We don't have excess -- 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: So the dividend -- the dividend is more important than buying back the shares at a price that you think is a good price? 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: That's the decision we have taken, yes. 

 RICHARD STRAUSS: Interesting. Okay, great, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Mike Mayo of Prudential. 

 MIKE MAYO, PRUDENTIAL: Good morning. Just a couple of questions on credit derivatives, how much did you have in credit derivative gains in trading, and since you underwrite a lot of these things, are you on the hook for some of the derivative trades? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I'm not sure what you mean by the latter question. 

 MIKE MAYO: Well, let's go with the first one. Do you have any credit derivative trades gains in trading? 

 MARC SHAPIRO: We have some gains in trading. I don't think it would be a very significant amount. We're hedging -- obviously, we have derivative receiveables, which if is the credit deteriorates or spreads increase, we tend to hedge that a lot with credit derivatives, so a lot of it is offsetting our receiveables. We have some offsets to our accrual exposure, which was obviously positive for the quarter, but not in a very significant amount relative to trading. 

 DAVE COULTER: Marc, maybe Bill would like to make a little comment about credit markets overall and how you performed in the third quarter. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: Yeah, well, first comment on the credit derivative hedges, just to amplify Marc's comment, our derivative counterparty exposures are mark-to-market are hedges against that portfolio as well as against the accrual portfolio, and the sum of the two shows up on our trading income line and was immaterial in terms of overall contribution, which would be pretty much what you would expect. I think the just of your question, the second question was, have we taken losses on credit protection that we sold? 

 MIKE MAYO: That's correct. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: And I think the short answer is, we are on the outside of our hedging tiffs, we run a market-making book that's balanced and we've had no exceptional gains or losses in that market making portfolio in the third quarter as it relates to credit derivative. Broadly, our credit trading results, both for the third quarter and for the year, have been very strong, and I think the outlook for that business continues to remain as robust as it has been because of the level of market-making activity that we're seeing being certainly at record levels and growing. 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I think in general, Mike, the position of the trading book would be we are -- we have bought more trading credit protection than we have sold. 

 MIKE MAYO: And just as one follow-up, the first conference call since you had the I guess the article in the "Wall Street Journal" that said you mark to market your portfolio using internal models as opposed to publicly traded market values, what percentage of, say, your balance sheet overall is mark to market using internal models as opposed to publicly traded market values? 

 DAVE COULTER: I think that the number we look at is revenues. Revenues derived from models versus readily absorbable input. What we see is about 90% of our revenue in the mark to market businesses is derived from readily observeable prices. In addition to that, when you look at models, there are two types of models. One is models that are -- where there's no tradable price for the output but where all of the inputs are effectively observable prices, and the other, of course, is models where it's really hard to observe the input. That latter part is a very small percentage of what we have. Most of the models we have are based on readily observable prices and had a history of being abused. All of our models have to be accrued by an independant risk management group in addition to the group that is trading based on the model and all of the evaluations are done by independent financers. 

 MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Andy Collins of U.S. Bancorp. 

 ANDY COLLINS, US BANCORP: Good morning. Just a couple of quick questions on credit. I guess, Dina, you had mentioned something about in terms of your MPA page book values at 30% in terms of telecom exposure, when written down, something like that. Could you explain that a little bit more? And then, second, can you guys talk about your global bank loan exposure and characterize kind of your typical credit risk in light of the kind of deteriorating global banking market environment? 

 DINA DUBLON: Well, let me pick up first still on the comments the value, my point was that we have been aggressive in taking charges against assets that are impaired in the telecom sector. We are not waiting it out to see whether the recovery will actually be 30 cents on the dollar, so that's what we think the market supports -- the impaired telephone assets to a nonperforming, so that -- 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Statistically, what it means, is that the combination of the allocated reserves plus the amount charged off as a percentage of the original face value of the loan is 70%, the remaining value for which we haven't taken an income statement charge, it would be 30%. 

 ANDY COLLINS: Okay, great. 

 DINA DUBLON: Okay. Your second -- 

 MARC SHAPIRO: I didn't understand the second question. 

 DINA DUBLON: yeah, I -- 

 ANDY COLLINS: Just in terms of, you have a fair amount of financial services exposure globally and I'm just kind of wondering if you could characterize what the typical credits are out there and, also, you know, perhaps by market, you know, we've seen deterioration in kind of the European banks and the Japanese banks and wondering, like, you know, how that all works together. 

 DAVE COULTER: Our largest exposures are major trading counterparties, you know. And I think my recollection is that about 97% investment grade in that category. So it's overwhelming the larger trading bank -- 

 ANDY COLLINS: okay, great. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Mike Korseeni of KBW. 

 MIKE KORSEENI, KBW: Hi, how are you? A quick question for you, just related to -- I appreciated the Slide 24 on the histogram of market risks, it didn't go up in the third quarter relative to all year, given the results of the trading of the quarter, have you all done anything to change or improve your bar calculation methodologies? 

 DAVE COULTER: No. The bar is not in our calculation methodologies. We took positions that turned out to be wrong and what the risk is of your position and the methodology wasn't wrong. The risk wasn't wrong, what was wrong was the position. 

 MIKE KORSEENI: Okay. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: As a reminder, if you have a question, please press 1 followed by 4 on your touch-tone phones at this time. Our next question is coming from Brock Bandervent of Lehman Brothers. 

 BROCK BANDERVENT, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks, and good morning. Follow-up to the previous question, could you talk about the impact of your proprietary trading operation in a typical quarter and what its impact was this quarter in trading? Thanks. 

 DAVE COULTER: Yeah, Brock, this is Dave Coulter, and I think you're referring to we have a unit within the IB, known as proprietary positioning. I think it is important to make the case to you, though, that we take proprietary risks in all the other parts of our trading books, via credit end rate or equities or treasury, global treasury. Our proprietary positioning business has been over the past two years a very steady performer for us, probably producing revenues to the tune of -- 75 million to 100 a quarter. They got it wrong in the third quarter after a long string of getting it right to the tune of, I guess, about 150 in the third quarter. I could be slightly off on that. I'm doing this from memory. We still have the same people managing the same type of risks. It happens, and so, I think we sort of gotten our legs back under us in that particular unit and these are difficult markets, so I'm not predicting a quick turn-around, but I think we were able to sort of bound the risks and get on with it. Bill Winters wants to make a comment here. The flip side of that is our global treasury business which, in many ways, the same kind of risks and had a blowout quarter, as you can see from the slide that DINA presented in the package. I don't know white slide it was maybe. 

 DINA DUBLON: 24 maybe? 

 DAVE COULTER: She broke out global treasury as part of our capital markets revenue. So I think that does reflect the kind of things that happened in large trading organizations where you do get a balancing of the risks. 

 BROCK BANDERVENT: Okay, thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Johnathan Adams of Brown Brothers Harryman. 

 JOHNATHAN ADAMS, BRPWN BROTHERS HARRYMAN: Good morning. Can you talk about the distribution of losses within J.P. Morgan Partners and whether you have a strategy to minimize losses in cases where there is an investment that is shaky and from an operating basis you report? 

 DINA DUBLON: I'm not sure -- 

 MARC SHAPIRO: Repeat the last part of the last question. 

 JOHNATHAN ADAMS: What is your strategy to minimize losses in your investment -- from your investments? 

 JEFFREY WALKER, HEAD OF JPMORGAN PARTNERS, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Jeff Walker here. No comments on those. 

 DAVE COULTER: Yeah, the source of the losses this quarter, three different categories, two major loss catagories, one is the mark to markets, markdown of 5 to 20%, current public portfolio. And we told you a value of 84 million or so currently, so took a share of that, and things like jet blue which went down, as well as a couple of the telecom investments, the second pool, a private investments, we took write-down in the fund portfolio as well as a couple of European telecom investments and a couple of west coast hardware equipment businesses that were affected by the continued decline in the capital expenditures of the telecom, and consumers. What are we doing to manage those losses? We're managing them by, one, being tougher on the public portfolio and getting out sooner than we probably have on average in the past. That means being off the board quicker, means probably accessing the markets when we can achieve liquidity, we're not under restrictions. We're managing the portfolio itself by hopping on those investments that we think have issues or poor performance projected buyouts and whether those changing management teams or bringing in new resources to help those companies or going in and doing some really refinancing or capitallizing our businesses to get through a poor economy. It's a variety of things we utilize and we spend full time focusing on that portfolio, protecting us as well. 

 JOHNATHAN ADAMS: Thank you. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: We'll take one more question. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Steve Iceman. 

 STEVE ICEMAN, CHILTON INVESTMENT COMPANY: Hi, thank you. Two questions. Could you tell us the size of your manufactured housing portfolio as of today and what the credit trends are like there? And could you -- I might have missed this part of the call, what is the size currently of the Brazil portfolio and what's happened in the last three months? 

 DINA DUBLON: Why doesn't we start with Brazil and we'll come back to manufactured housing. Brazil's total exposure is about $2 billion. The size of the loan portfolio is about $550 million. The exposure, as you know, significantly lower than what it used to be, but generally has the stable over the last three months or so. You asked about manufactured housing, and let's see if we can give you a number. Don Wilson is here as well. 

 DONALD LAYTON, HEAD OF RETAIL & MIDDLE MARKET FINANCIAL SERVICES, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: I hate to say this, it's so small it's mixed in with other categories on my cheat sheet. 

 STEVE ICEMAN: Last time I heard, it was only $4 billion to $5 billion. 

 DAVE COULTER: I'll do this from memory, this is Dave Coulter, I think it's more in the range of two to three. We have actually been running it down. We have not seen -- the only place where you've really seen hits is because of the -- some of the problems in that market, when they go to the secondary sales, people have been realizing lower values, but we had a very explicit strategy last year to reduce our exposure to that market. 

 STEVE ICEMAN: Okay, thank you. 

 DAVE COULTER: Okay, Bill, you want to make some concluding comments? 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, JR.: Yeah, let me just make a couple comments. One of the things that has been very disappointing to me from the third quarter results relates to, of course, our credit charges in the commercial loan area, and some of you heard me say this before, but I'm going to say it again, because it would look like to most people, certainly a lot of people who don't spend their lives looking at this stuff, that we have learned nothing as an organization on managing credit cycles, particularly in the commercial loan area, and the points I want to make is that we -- is that we have learned a lot, but we didn't go far enough, and just let me give you a couple of numbers. If you go back to 1985, on a pro forma basis, look at the banks, we had about $170 billion of commercial loans outstanding. Today, we have roughly $97 billion outstanding. During that time, our capital has more than quadrupled, all right? You go back to the -- to the '80s, you'd have seen in our wholesale platform about 60%, 65%, 70% of total revenues coming from NI. In the loan business. Today, it's 10%. The point is some number of years ago, we all knew that the loan business was not the business you wanted to be in as one of your primary assets, but we do believe it's part of an integrative financial delivery model if managed well. We have substantially reduced the exposure by design, by a vision we have for the business, but what we didn't do is we didn't go far enough, and particularly in the concentration area. You go back ten years ago to the last economic downturn, we had big concentrations, two, three, four over 20%, such as real estate at probably 33% of loans outstanding. Today, that number is 3%. Aside from financial institutions today, that Marc commented on earlier, our biggest concentration a year ago was TNT, and it was about 7%, and about 75% of that was investment grade. In hindsight, it wasn't enough. We didn't go far enough there, an that's what we have been doing for the last two, three quarters in trying to take these down even further from a concentration perspective. So, again, I just -- you've heard me say that before, I do want to state it again, because we have learned but we need to go further, and that's what we're working on. And just in terms of just a summary comment here, as we close, our focus is on producing results going forward, and realizing the value of this business franchise we've put together. We're doing this to adjusting our expense base, to reflect the economic environment we're in. We'll continue to do that in a very active way. We're taking actions to deal with these challenges, many of what we talked about today. We'll continue to stay all over the risk areas, and we're working hard to keep our people focused on the business and creating revenues. So, in summary, we're unhappy with our financial results and take full responsibility for them. We're going to continue to take actions, and most importantly, we believe in the business model and the diversity of the business model that we've put together and the inherent value that this firm can and should be able to deliver in the future. So thanks for being with us. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation. This does conclude this morning's call. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyag0039a
  


 HD
 Q2  2002 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,136 words
   PD
17 July 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Presentation portion was missed. 

 ANALYST: Something that we can experiment with and use it on a broader basis outside this campus. We have a proliferation of investor meetings going on, I guess, and I think increasingly as we have more more and more people attending my call, we'll probably vary some of these where we just simply do them by call. But in any event, we do want to proceed in our normal pattern today. Dina Dublon, who is our chief financial officer, will give a review of her comments on the quarter. I'll give a few of my own comments, and then I will be joined by some of my other colleagues on the senior management team in responding to questions, both here and on the phone. Dina? 

   TD
 DINA DUBLON, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Thank you. Welcome to those of you here in the room and welcome to those of you on the phone. 

 Our first slide is our statement regarding risks and uncertainties in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. 

 Earnings this quarter were comparable to the first quarter, but below analysts consensus estimate. We tail led the way again with another record quarter. We gained market share in investment bank in a market that continues to shrink. Weak trading more than offset the gains and drove results lower. 

 J. P. Morgan Partners loss was much smaller but still a loss. Tech and telecom continues to drive the write-downs. 

 Operating earnings per share was 58 cents a share, up a penny from last quarter and up over 50% from last year, because of the very large write-downs in J. P. Morgan Partners last year. 

 Excluding partners, EPS is slightly down, 3 to 4%, from both last year and the first quarter of this year. 

 Reported EPS net of the previously announced merger and relocation charges was 50 cents. These charges were 230 million pretax and for the second half of the year, non-operating merger charges were estimated at about 700 million. 

 Revenues were up 9% from the second quarter last year. The increase is all due to the much smaller loss in J. P. Morgan and partners. Excluding partners, revenues were flat but with a significant change in mix. Over 700 million increase in revenues from retail offset the 600 million revenue decline in investment bank. 

 Total revenues were flat to the first quarter with a very similar change in mix. Lower trading revenues and higher retail revenues. 

 We continue to manage to positive operating leverage by reducing expenses. Credit costs are up significantly from last year. Relative to the first quarter, credit costs are up due to the addition of the provision of the - of the Providian portfolio for the fourth quarter. Operating earnings for the quarter were 1.2 billion. Return on equity was 11% for the quarter as well as the first half. 

 Expenses are down 3% from the first quarter and 5% from the second quarter last year. Operating expenses include 160 million in non-merger, severance, and related costs, up from about a hundred million last quarter. 

 As we have said, these costs will continue to flow through the operating line. We will have more of these charges in the second half, although not as high as we had in the first half of the year. 

 We are managing expenses to be lower than 2001, including the cost of severance. 

 Credit costs are high, but stable. Commercial charge-offs were 290 million or almost 1.2% of commercial loans. Middle market credits are holding up. It is the larger names, primarily in telecom and media, where we continue to see problems. We have had no improvement but also no significant deterioration in the commercial portfolio. 

 Managed credit card charge-offs are higher, as expected Providian charge-offs on our books are up from last quarter. 

 Total provision equal charge-off this quarter as well as the last quarter, in the first quarter of this year. 

 We hold reserves against retained consumer loans. Providian and other card security [inaudible] and lower loss rate in auto finance contributed to 130 million relief in consumer reserves. 

 For cards, we show improvement in all, whether it's 30, 60 or 90-day bucket for delinquency ratios. 

 Commercial reserves stayed about even. The computation of reserves for the consumer and the commercial segment is more formula-driven, based on ratings and loss rate. 

 We increased the unallocated portion of the total reserve by 120 million, to allow for greater uncertainty in default probabilities and rating migrations in the current environment. 

 Unallocated reserves are now over $800 million, 16% of total reserves versus 14% in the first quarter, and 11% in the second quarter of last year. 

 Our policy is to stay between 10 and 20%. 

 Non-performing assets - and I'm on slide 8 for those of you on the phone. Non-performing assets are up slightly to 4.4 billion from addition primarily in the telecom sector. Non-performing assets may rise, though not dramatically. 

 Argentine credit exposure, net of reserves, is about 200 million. We recognized most of our loss last year, and had no net credit costs related to Argentine in the second quarter. While we remain active in Brazil, we have managed our Brazilian exposure down to 2.1 billion as of the end of this quarter, from 3.3 billion at the end of the year. Reserves are 5 billion and are unchanged from the last quarter and up 1.3 billion from last year. Loans are down and leading to an increase in the reserve to loan ratio of about 70 basis points. 

 We don't expect to see a material change in credit in the second half of the year. The commercial portfolio remains under pressure, led by telecom and cable. 

 Consumer losses should remain close to the second-quarter levels. 

 Continued rollover of the Providian portfolio into securitization trust and improving delinquency trends should allow for lower consumer reserves in the second half of the year. 

 We expect total reserves to stay at about the same level. 

 Slide 9, retail and middle market posted record earnings of 686 million, up 29% from last quarter and 60% from last year. Return on equity was 26% for the first half, 24%. Retail was almost 60% of this quarter's consolidated earnings. 

 Revenues of 3-and-a-half billion was driven by this consumer lending businesses, compared to last year. Providian adds 10% to revenue growth and 5% to expense growth. The overhead ratio declined to 48%. 

 We continue to show organic growth in cards for the seventh consecutive quarter, adding 900,000 in new accounts. Deposits are up 12% from last year. Home finance income almost doubled from last quarter. All components of the business, whether origination, servicing, or loan portfolio, all of them benefitted from low rates, the steep yield curve and widening of more [inaudible] spread. We had high mortgage applications, lower funding costs, and higher servicing balances. 

 In addition to the ideal operating environment, we had net hedging gains of 160 million. Gains exceeded the write-downs in the value of mortgage servicing rights. 

 For operating purposes, we do not count on - we don't forecast - net hedging gains for servicing rights. Given the very strong results in home finance, even if the environment continues to be very positive as we expect it, revenues and earnings for retail may be lower for the rest of the year. 

 Slide 10, treasury and security services also had a record quarter, with earnings up 22% from last quarter and 16% from a year ago. Return on equity rebounded to 23%. Revenues at 985 million are up 2% from last year, much slower than what the business is capable of in more normal market conditions. 

 It is, however, up 5% from the first quarter. 

 Investor services are - revenues are up 9% from a pickup in custody fees, foreign exchange revenues, as well as securities lending fees. 

 Institutional revenues are up 9%. Treasury services revenues are down modestly compared to both the first-quarter and the year-ago quarter. Both are down 1% because of low rates. 

 Deposit levels and fees are up in the business. Expenses are under control. The overratio dropped to 72%. The group works towards a long-term overhead ratio of 68%. 

 Earnings in the investment bank, slide 11, are low at 485 million, down 35% and 38% from prior periods on very weak revenue and high credit costs. We have not seen a turnaround yet. 

 Expenses are down, though not in line with revenues. We put in place this quarter a new client coverage model and included in operating expenses severance related charges of 120 million, up from 50 million in the first quarter. We are pleased that we did not lose market share while implementing this new model. 

 The overhead ratio for the quarter was 65%. For the year-to-date, it's 62% excluding the searches related cost, the ratio is 61 for the quarter and 59% year-to-date. 

 The revenue and credit environment continues to be difficult. In managing expenses, we are cautious about sacrificing long-term growth. The crisis of confidence among investors suggests no meaningful pickup in market activity in the second half of the year. With additional severance charges and caution on further cuts, we must see a recovery in revenue for the overhead ratio to decline to our targeted level for the year. 

 This does not seem likely. 

 Return on equity for the quarter was 10%. Year-to-date, it is 13%. 

 Looking in more detail at revenues - I'm on slide 12 - first, trading and brokerage commissions combined at 1.4 billion are down over 20% from last year and last quarter. Weak trading, particularly in June, drove the decline. 

 Fixed income is down 11% from last year because of declines in emerging markets trading. Relative to the first quarter, the decline is due in equal parts to lower emerging markets trading and lower positioning gains in rates. 

 Equities are down 45% from the second quarter last year, primarily equity derivatives. The decline from the first quarter is primarily from cash business. 

 Relative to our competitors and compared to the first quarter, investment banking results are favorable. 

 Particularly in equities. Though absolute levels are still low. Our pipeline is slightly below where it was at the end of March, and substantially below last June. Equities was the bright spot, though in recent weeks we have seen deals get postponed or cancelled. Due to the very important market conditions. 

 Trading, as I said, was unusually weak in June and may rebound. The outlook for the second half, however, remains very uncertain. 

 This slide highlights - slide 13 highlights market share progress in a few key products. This table shows the first half 2001 versus first half '02 and the second quarter results. In all cases, we maintained or increased rank or market share relative to last year. Note that in each case, market share in the second quarter was higher than in the first half of the year, highlighting the momentum in the second quarter. 

 Market gain shares really validate the value to clients of our broad investment banking model. We are seeing the benefits from our investment in equities. 

 We are outpacing, as I said before, in a shrinking market. Year-to-date global disclosed fees for the market are down about 15% versus the same period last year. We are up 30%. In fact, we were the only ones - the only top five book runners to increase fees. 

 Equities markets activity is running at '98 levels. M and A is running at '95 levels. Syndicated loan volumes increased very modestly from last quarter, but are down compared to last year. 

 Moving to investment management and private banking, slide 14, earnings are about the same as a year ago, as expense reductions more than offset lower revenues and higher credit costs. Earnings are down 6% from last quarter. 

 Return on equity was 8%. Tangible return on equity is over - is in excess of 20%. 

 The pretax margin was 21%, up from the second quarter last year but down from the 22% we had in the first quarter. Private bank revenues, about half of the total revenues of the group declined 9% from the first quarter on lower client activity. Loans, deposits, and brokerage fees were down. 

 Investment management revenues were flat with the first quarter. 

 Assets under management fell 40 billion from the end of March to 540 billion. Declining equity market values and money market outflows each contributed equally to the decline. 

 The retail fund business continued to have positive flows. Retail assets under management are up 11% from last year, and flat with March, despite market depreciation. These carry higher fees and margins. 

 Merger integration in investment management and private banking business is always a challenge. We have most of it behind us. Margins have significantly improved in investment management. In the private bank, we have the capacity to gain market share at better margins and are taking measures to deliver on this potential. J. P. Morgan Partners had a private equity loss that narrowed to 125 million. Write-downs and write-offs remain at high levels. 70% of which came from tech and telecom. 

 Realized gains of 110 million partially offset the write-downs and write-offs. Exit opportunities continue to be limited. 

 The mark-to-market on the public portfolio had less of an impact this quarter. Losses were partially offset by hedge gains and a gain on the jet blue IPO. The public portfolio is now on our books at about $700 million. 

 As I have stressed throughout this discussion, we have not seen a turnaround yet. 

 The IPO market is slow, at best. The high-yield market is on and off. And M and A activity is very sluggish. 

 We have a few transactions in the pipeline expected to close in the third quarter, including the publicly-announced Barry plastics deal. Seagate technologies has filed for an IPO which is scheduled for the second half of the year. 

 To break even in the second half of the year, we need an increase in realized gain to offset the current level of write-downs. 

 Moving to balance sheet and capital, slide 16, maintaining financial flexibility is important. Our tier 1 capital ratio remains high at 8.7%, up from 8.3% at year end. We are not yet re-purchasing stock. In fact, we have been net issuers for employee benefit plans. We will wait for acceleration of earnings before we resume repurchases. 

 Assets are up 4% from last quarter due to increasing trading assets. Total loans are down. Commercial loans are down 70 - 7% from last year. They're slightly up this quarter. The risk-weighted assets are down from the first quarter as well as from year end. 

 In summary, diversification has helped maintain operating results. Our earnings from the investment bank are down 300 million from last year, a 38% decline. The increase in retail and services is over 280 million, making up for most of the decline. We continue to strengthen the franchise, whether retail or investment banking, yet capital market businesses continue to suffer from slow corporate activity and reduced market values, with no clear turning point yet. 

 Short-term, we see no improvement with potentially some pressure in revenues and credit. Therefore, expense discipline and balance sheet strength remain top priorities. 

 We recognize that reputation is one of our most valuable assets. We expect and hold ourselves to the highest standards of integrity. We can't assure you that no issues will ever be raised. It is difficult for all of us, for you and for us, to operate in an environment of mistrust where essentially rumors are picked up by the media and gain credibility before we have an opportunity to react. 

 We will eventually - eventually, we'll get to the other side of this tunnel as well. Thank you. Mark Marc? 

 MARK, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: Now we're going to summarize this quarter in terms of pluses and minuses. I would say the three pluses are that we had a great performance in the retail side, with record revenues and record earnings, and all of our businesses in that sector performing very well. The second very positive thing was that investment banking market share picked up across the board, across all products, and is the clear indicator that the strategy we have is a long-term successful strategy. 

 And the third positive would be that credit costs are stable in a difficult environment. If I were to look at three negatives, I'd say number one, credit costs are still high relative to historical standards. Second, investment banking revenues, particularly trading revenues, are weak relative to historical standards and the potential of the company. And the third element is that private equity continues to show losses and not much opportunity for realized gain. 

 Now, the good news about all three of those things is that I think that they are somewhat cyclical. In fact, I know they're cyclical. What I don't know is the length of the cycle. 

 But we do know there will be a time when investment banking revenues pick up, when credit costs will return to a more normal period, and when private equity exit opportunities will regain their prior place in life. 

 And our goal is simply to continue with the strategy we have and to continue to execute on that strategy until we get to that time when the bottom-line results can show the benefit of that. 

 I continue to believe this is a company with tremendous operating leverage in our results, as we continue to ratchet down expense base, that operating leverage becomes even stronger and that, of course, is what we are waiting for. 

 At this time, I'd be happy to respond to questions, and as I indicated, I'm joined by many of my associates right here. 

 ANALYST: Thank you. My question on the dividend. 

 MARK: Uh-huh. 

 ANALYST: You indicated that [inaudible] dividend rate to be about 30% and at a little more than $1.30, that indicates that your EPS would have to be $4.50 a share, give or take. 

 MARK: Right. 

 ANALYST: Given that the run rate for the EPS for the last two years has been around $2 and that even at the NASDAQ peak in 1999, you never got to that level, at what point is it appropriate to address the current dividend level and consider cutting it until some of these cyclical problems resolve? 

 MARK: That's a good question, and I think our outlook on that would be is there visibility for getting to the four, four-and-a-half dollars that would be comfortable with our policy. 

 It takes three things to get there. It takes a more normal private equity revenue rate. It takes a more normal trading and investment banking environment. And it takes credit costs at normal levels. 

 If those three things happen, then we would be at a that earnings level. Now, the question is how long can you wait, and the answer is, as long as we're comfortably covering the dividend, as long as we are increasing our capital ratios, then I would say we feel very comfortable waiting. And as long as we have the belief - which we do - that we will get to those levels. 

 If those conditions change, then I think we will reassess that, but at the present time, that continues to be how we feel about it. 

 Ron? 

 ANALYST: Yeah. I'm glad I'm wearing black. In regard to the - and Dina is wearing white, so . . . 

 Dina, I guess what I took away from what you were saying is that the earnings in the retail business were boosted by the hedge gains, so retail earnings will probably be down in the second half, and you don't see anything turning around in investment banking in the second half, so, you know, it's hard to see earnings improving in the second half from what they were in the first half and possibly could be weaker, and then a more specific question. You know, trading results were weak as you pointed out and they seemed to be weaker than some of your peers who were on the same calendar quarter. I was wondering if you could elaborate on that a little bit. 

 MARK: Well, we got our new head of investment banking, who will be happy to respond to that. David? 

 DAVID, J.P. MORGAN CHASE: I'll start it off, Ron, and we'll see whether it works for you. And we also have Steve Black and Bill Winters here, if you want to talk about either the equity or the credit rates business. 

 Our results on a quarter - on a prior-year quarter, on a quarterly basis, do look weak, but I think you do have to keep in mind that we had a very strong quarter a year ago. It was about a billion six in revenues. We had a very strong quarter in the first quarter of this year. It was about a billion seven. This quarter came in at a billion one. $200 million of that difference was emerging markets, largely Brazil, where you heard Dina describe our exposures there as we've -as we've taken them down and we took our hits in Brazil and I think we've moved on from there. 

 About another third of it related to the rates business and weakness in the rates business vis-a-vis prior periods. 

 And then the final part was the equities derivatives business. So the equity derivatives was strong in the second quarter of last year. And that's largely related, from our perspective largely related to deal flow, lack of - lack of deal activity in that market, and that's where we've seen the weaknesses. 

 But keep in mind we're coming - we're looking at these from a reasonably strong level vis-a-vis our peers. 

 ANALYST: [inaudible] 

 DAVID: Yeah, but that's my point. We were at a billion seven in the first quarter of last year. Ron's follow-on question to those on the phone relates to first-quarter of this year versus second quarter. 

 We were at a billion seven. As I said, a billion one was a low quarter for us overall, but if you - if you take 200 of that related to our emerging markets in Brazil, I think - I think it's - it's the ups and downs of the trading business. But I think we came from a very high first quarter. 

 ANALYST: And then if Dina has any comment about - more comment about the outlook for the second half of the year. 

 MARK: Dina? 

 DINA DUBLON: I don't know that I have much to add on what I said before. I think, you know, we can all look at the numbers. There isn't much visibility on the investment banking side. What we have is somewhat [inaudible] trading results was June was particularly weak. Yes, we could. On the other hand, we had some unusual items in [inaudible] as well. So we had this quarter unusually low trading and we had somewhat unusual market sensitive items on the mortgage banking side and, you know, for the remainder of the year, it's more of the same [inaudible] as being management. 

 ANALYST: All right. Given the revenue weakness, where do you stand on expense initiatives? How much expense savings do you have? What's left, number one. Number two, venture capital, how scrubbed is the private portion of the portfolio and what kind of losses are you looking at? And third, if you could just comment on some of the regulatory investigations. 

 MARK: Okay. With regard to expense initiatives, I think we continue to be very focused on expenses. We have continued to reduce people, especially in those areas where we have revenue declines, which are primarily in investment management and treasury securities services and in investment banking. In the consumer business, where we have strong volume growth, we are adding people to deal with the volume growth and our expense growth will is lower than our revenue growth, even when you make all the various adjustments. 

 So I think it is something that we are clearly cognizant of, the need to keep the pressure on expenses, and we continue to do so. 

 Because we push all of the costs of doing that into our operating expenses, it doesn't show up quite as immediately as it did if you were pushing it for a non-operating cost, but I think it is clear that we're going to continue to focus on those initiatives. [inaudible] has been a very important part of what we were doing. It was utilized first in the retail bank because they weren't going through a merger and I think they have several hundred million dollars of payback from it. We're applying it more broadly across the country now as we've gotten through with the merger and I think we will see additional fruits from that. 

 Now, the second - I'm sorry. The second question you asked, Mike? Venture capital. How comfortable do we feel with our evaluations. 

 We feel comfortable with our evaluations. We have a very intents I have process that we go through of looking at each company that is subject to both people in the company and people outside of the private equities side taking an independent look at it. The market, especially in telecommunications, has continued to decline, and I think that with that has been some write-downs in our portfolio. I can't predict whether that market is going to continue to decline. At some point, I know it won't. But as long as it is, there probably will be some continued write-downs. 

 We are not able to just say we'll write the whole thing off and when it comes back, you know, then it will be there. That's not the right way to account for it either. I feel very comfortable that we're on top of it, as it is moving. 

 There's some signs that it may be getting close to a bottom, but we'll have to see whether that works out or not. 

 The third, with regard to investigations, you know, I think everybody and his dog is investigating everything that is associated with some of the highly visible transactions. We are comfortable that what we did was the right thing, and therefore, we understand why all these people want to investigate. We think that that's their role in life and we're certainly cooperative with them, but-[lost audio] 

 [call operator is being contacted] 

 MARK: For two months. It is not that we are disappointed in the results. That's what we expected to happen. We're actually making more money on a bottom-line basis than we expected to make in the first six months of the acquisition. We think over time it will turn out to be a terrific money-making proposition, though it even is today, which we didn't expect for the first six or nine months. So it simply means that our ratio is higher than it it's would have been, but we're not disappointed in it. 

 At this time, I think we'll take a question on the phone. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. For questions or comments, we ask you to please press the numbers 1 followed by 4 on your touch-tone telephone at this time. We do ask all parties to please pick up their handsets while posing their question, and if you would like to remove yourself from the queue, you may do so by pressing the pound key. 

 Please hold while we poll for our first audio question. 

 Thank you. Our first question is coming from Henry McVeigh of Morgan Stanley. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Good morning. Can you hear me? 

 MARK: Yes. 

 ANALYST: Okay. A couple questions for Dina. One, Dina, it seems like on the private equity, that you were saying the issue is really not on the write-downs but more on the realized gain side and I just want to make sure that's what you were inferring. 

 DINA DUBLON: I [inaudible] that write-downs - that we are not expecting any large write-downs on Jaap morgue partners. We don't have the same concentration issue that we had a year ago, and yes [inaudible] in order for us to see a positive bottom line, we need to see [inaudible]. That's not to say we won't have write-downs. 

 ANALYST: Right. But no - 

 MARK: I think, Henry, if you look at historical levels of write-down - 

 ANALYST: Uh-huh. 

 MARK: - they would have run for some long period of time in the range of a hundred and - hundred to hundred and fifty million dollars a quarter, would not be unusual, even $200 million a quarter would not be unusual. 

 ANALYST: Right. 

 MARK: So it is not so unusual to have $200 million in write-downs. What's unusual is that we don't have the realized gains to offset that. 

 ANALYST: Right. 

 MARK: As you would expect in a portfolio of our size to be in the neighborhood of $500 million a quarter. 

 ANALYST: Right. Just wanted to make sure. And then on - the second thing I wanted to follow up on was - and I apologize if you answered this because I had to jump from one other call - the home finance went from 132 to 268 and auto finance went from 33 to 82. I heard you mention that there was a - that there was a gain on a hedge. Was there anything else that really bolstered those numbers? 

 MARK: Yes. In auto finance, we had a reduction in the credit loss allowance, in the provision, because as we - our methodology is predicated on delinquencies, current losses, retained loans, and expectations of future losses. And when you run that - and also average holding period, average period that the loan is on our books, since our reserve is for the life of the loan. 

 ANALYST: Uh-huh. 

 MARK: So when you ran the calculations through this quarter, for a variety of reasons, including the good credit performance, the reserve in that business was higher than it needed to be. That was the primary reason. 

 In addition to the fact that it had very good volume growth and very much wider spreads in that business, as people have gotten out of that business and as there's less competition in that business. Then we have seen - and as we're in a favorable interest rate environment, we have seen spreads widen in that business. 

 ANALYST: Okay. 

 MARK: With regard to the mortgage business, it was partially helped by hedge gains, but also it would be true to say that origination gains, the warehouse effect, spreads on warehouse loans, and the positive continued increase in servicing also contributed to the improved earnings. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Just one follow-up, last question. Just Dina had said in her commentary that she expected continued revenue pressure and continued high credit costs, and then if you infer that you're saying that the consumer bucket is getting - you know, is getting better - that's what Don said - so most of the issues that we should be looking for on the credit side are related to the corporate? Is that - 

 MARK: I think I would say consistent with what we said in the first quarter, which is that consumer costs are getting better. Consumer credit is getting better. We're still seeing continued positive delinquency trends, and that will probably mean, given the way we reserve based on expected future losses that provisions in the consumer area will probably continue to be somewhat less than actual charge-offs. 

 ANALYST: Okay. 

 MARK: On the commercial side, it's possibly the reverse, although we are seeing a leveling out of problems, and although there's a lot of stuff in the news, it is not necessarily new news to us and - 

 ANALYST: Right. 

 MARK: Our evaluation of the loans. We are charging off a significant amount of loans, as we try to stay ahead of this game, and in other words for the provision to have to go up, your loans have to deteriorate by more than what you charge off, and it is - at some point, which is probably not too far away, we're going to get to the point where that is not continuing to happen. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Great. That's very helpful. 

 MARK: Okay. Next question on the phone? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Jude da contra-shear an of Merrill Lynch. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Hi, Mark. How are you. 

 MARK: Hi, Judith. 

 ANALYST: A couple questions. Or this one may be for Dina but Dina mentioned an unallocated reserve policy of 10 to 20% and now you're kind of moving up on unallocated reserves to 16% this quarter. The question is as follows: My recollection is, other banks commonly have unallocated reserve levels considerably higher, and it seems a little bit odd that, you know, you're this far into a credit cycle and you're only now going into the upper half of that policy range. 

 How do you sort of square up both those issues? 

 MARK: Well, first of all, our reading of the SEC policy is that you should not have an unallocated reserve that's significantly higher than that. Secondly, with regard to where we are in the credit cycle, we don't really look at it as where we are in the credit cycle. Our normal policy, if you will, is that provision equals charge-off. 

 We also run through this specific allocation methodology, and if that policy leads us to one where we have too high an unallocated, then we would bring provision down below charge-off. If the reverse happened, if it was too low on unallocated as was in danger of happening last year, then we would raise the provision to offset it. 

 So I think our policy is very consistent. I think it is absolutely in accordance with what the SEC wants, and it is - it is a methodology that we've followed for the past several years fairly religiously. 

 ANALYST: It does sound, though, that if the consumer continues to improve, you're going to have more releases of consumer reserves, and to keep provision equal to charge-offs, I haven't done the math but it would seem like you could get fairly quickly to a case where you'd go above 20%. Would you let that happen? Would you change the unallocated policy. 

 MARK: No, we would not let that happen. 

 ANALYST: Okay. The other two questions I just had quickly. That investment management fees as apart from transactional fees in the investment management business were flat this quarter. Can you reconcile that with a drop in managed assets? And the other question is, in the investment bank, the core overhead ratio, apart from severance, went from 57 to 61%. I think your goal was 60%, I think you said. Can we see any improvement in the second half of the year back to - to, you know - you know, from these levels if markets don't really recover or, you know, are we just going to hang above the goal indefinitely here? 

 MARK: Well, to answer the second question, of course it gets easier as revenue increases. If revenue continues to fall or be short of that, then I think it gets more difficult and we'll have to decide where we wind up in terms of primarily compensation as it relates to that level. We are looking at it carefully, both trying to balance long-term and short-term interest, but I think we've had a good record of managing expenses down to the significant revenue shortfall we have had so far, and it's something that we'll continue to try to manage to those levels. The ability to do it will be somewhat dependent on where the revenue levels fall out. 

 With regard to investment management, Jess Daley is here, and he'll respond to that question. 

 : Yes, Julius. I'd make two clarifying comments then. One is there is the A-1 numbers that Dina talked about were quarter end to quarter end, and most of the market reduction occurred in June, and there is somewhat of a lag between revenues associated with investment management and the actual investment management number. 

 That being said, I think the biggest issue is of the 40 billion, 21 billion is representative of money market assets which are generally lower yielding, and of that 21 billion, 14-and-a-half billion came from specifically one government client where the yield on those assets was less than 4 basis points. 

 So very low revenue impact. 

 And I think - I guess one third thing I would add is as Dina mentioned, we are seeing net growth in our retail assets, which are tending to be higher-yield. So we would expect some impact from the market reduction to flow through our revenue number the next quarter, although partially offset by, I think, the improvement in the mix of our assets from institution to retail, which as you know is something that we have been working on for a while. 

 ANALYST: Okay, okay. Thank you. 

 MARK: Next question on the phone? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Robert Albertson of Sandler O'Neal. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Hi. Two, really. One to David. History seems to teach us that when there's a poor quarter in trading, it usually snaps back fairly quickly, usually in the second - the very following quarter. And I'm wondering if you feel that this is a different situation or not. 

 And then to Marc, this is a little philosophical, I apologize, but on August 14th, I gather you sign your name again. What are your thoughts and actions? How are you thinking differently or not about that, and what are you hearing from some of your peers? 

 MARK: David? 

 DAVID: I'll take the first one, Robert. 

 I think - I don't - I don't have a great Crystal ball on what the third quarter is going to look like here. But the point I would - I should have responded - I'm going to respond to the question you asked and the question Ron asked earlier. 

 We did have a weak quarter in terms of trading, but if you look at the - I was making an argument that the first quarter was particularly strong. If you look at our first half vis-a-vis the other players, I would argue we're right in line. At least some of the data I have shows us down about 20% first half of '02 over the first half of '01 and that's just about where everybody was on the trading side. 

 I think, Robert, the difficulty with predicting a quick snapback is two fold. One is just these markets, in and of themselves as we've been observing them for the last few weeks, and then the summer, which there's definitely a seasonal pattern to some of these things. 

 So that's the difficulty with making a prediction here. 

 ANALYST: But is volatility lacking sufficiently that that's the biggest bug a boo, or is it just across the board. 

 DAVID: Well, volatility is certainly back, but is there some trend around it I think is the problem. 

 MARK: I think with regard to the philosophical question, I would view that we sign our names to any financial statements that we've ever put out, and actually signing one more document probably doesn't make a whole lot of difference. 

 ANALYST: But I mean I guess what I'm getting at is do you think there are going to be changes in general because of this? I'm not really thinking so much of J. P. Morgan Chase as what you're hearing. 

 MARK: I think that if you look - if you'd look at the broader issue of corporate America, I think the closer scrutiny that people pay to all the practices that have grown up over the last several years, it seems likely to me that there will be some additional changes in those practices. 

 Just given the fact that we have - what is it - something like 6,000 public corporations tells me that there's likely to be some number of them that will make changes as they apply more scrutiny to a process and as practices which maybe have been lax in the past get changed. 

 I don't think that that implies a fundamental overhaul in the - for the vast majority of very large companies in America who I think have been playing by the rules and playing accurately by the rules. 

 We'll have to see how it comes out, but certainly that has been the result so far. 

 ANALYST: Thank you both. 

 MARK: Next question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from chip Dickson of Lehman Brothers. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Thanks. Morning, Mark. Good morning, Dina. A couple questions. One, could you tell us how the shared national credit exam went for J. P. Morgan Chase? Update us on your telecom exposure. And I may have missed it. Why did the commercial loan book and credit-related exposures grow this quarter, because most companies that have reported have had flat to down - a flat to down experience. 

 MARK: Suzanne Hammett is here, who is head of credit policy. I'll let her comment on those questions. 

 : Hi, chip. Three questions. The first question, on the commercial exposure numbers, our actual commercial loans were up slightly due to, in large part, a couple of large over quarter-end client transactions which actually now in the third quarter are no longer among us. 

 We did see a rather dramatic upswing in our mark to to market arena due to the movement in the dollar against other currencies. Okay? As a general matter. 

 Stepping down to - or into our telecom exposure, we reported to you all a year ago, and have subsequently published our credit-related assets as it relates to our telecom portfolio. We are down 15% in total credit-related assets on telecom since a year ago, basically pretty flat to the first quarter of this year, and we're - we're continuing to manage that number as tightly as you would expect we would be. 

 And as part of our overall mix, it continues, as Dina mentioned, to be in the area that is giving us - and is giving the industry - the most [inaudible]. And what was the third question 

 ANALYST: The shared national credit exam, how did it go for you? 

 : We do not have our final numbers yet, but the preliminary indications are that actually we came out quite well, and we are particularly pleased with that preliminary performance against how we felt we did last year, which wasn't poor but we could improve upon that performance. So we feel pretty good about our - the out - what the outcome will be of shared national credit, which should be basically an August event for us. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Thanks a lot. 

 MARK: Next question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is coming from Andy Collins of U.S. Bankcorp. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Yeah. Good morning Mark and Dina. I was just following up on Ron's question, Ron Mandell, about the outlook for the second half. I mean I guess so far, you guys have posted about a buck fifteen and to hit consensus, you'd have to hit a buck fifty six in the second half, so I'm just wondering if you could kind of - do you think that that's reasonable, given where consensus is today? 

 MARK: As you know, we don't comment on specific bottom-line earnings per share numbers, and we allow you to do your own work. 

 ANALYST: Okay. And just following up on the - a couple of other questions. Trading was kind of weak in June. I was wondering how - so far, how it's going in July? And then also, if you could touch on hedging gains, you know, given the steepness in the yield curve, didn't you see a lot of mortgage servicing losses that might not be there going forward if the hedging gains go away? 

 MARK: Well, with regard to the former, we don't comment on it between quarters, in terms of what the outcome is because it changes so much from day to day. 

 With regard to the latter, it of course is possible that if interest rates or mortgage rates don't change, that we will not see the servicing write-downs that we saw in the first quarter. I mean in the second quarter. 

 What happened in the second quarter was we had significant servicing write-downs, but the assets that we had that hedged those write-downs actually more than offset that. 

 So what would happen in the third quarter is anybody's guess. I think we have, you know, very good systems for managing that risk. I think managing mortgage servicing risk is one of the most complex things that any company can do, and it is something that we spend a great deal of time on, and because it has importance to our business. But I think it would be one of those areas where it would be very difficult to predict what the outcome would be from month to month. 

 ANALYST: Okay. So - and the trading issue, you won't say one way or another about the Brazilian situation? 

 MARK: Well, I'll say that we've reduced our exposure, and I'll say that, you know, we continue to mark things to market. We're not necessarily always long in our trading exposures, so it's a question of getting it right and we'll just see - have to see how it turns out. 

 ANALYST: Okay. Great. Thank you. 

 MARK: Next question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. And as a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, for any further questions or comments, we ask you to please press 1 followed by 4 on your touch-tone telephone at this time. 

 Our next question is coming from Richard [inaudible] of Hoffer internet. Please state your question. 

 ANALYST: Good morning. I'm trying to figure out the relationship between the bank's capital and its trading activities. In other words, I make the assumption that the risk in the derivatives portfolio is roughly equal to the company's common equity at the present time, and I then make the further assumption that there is a constraint on your ability to expand your trading activities if you're in that situation. 

 Could you clarify whether that has any relevance or not? 

 MARK: No, I don't think that's the way we would look at it. We would look at - we've got two risks. One is our credit risk. Our credit risk in that - in the derivative portfolio is a receivable of about $70 billion. When you net cash collateral against that, it's between 45 and $50 billion. We look at that just like loan exposures, commercial loan exposures, a hundred billion dollars, consumer loan exposure is 200 billion - another $125 billion. We would look at the grade, the rating of the counter-party and we would assign capital based on that rating. So - and actually, in our derivatives portfolio, 85% of the counter-parties are investment grade. So - and then the second risk we've got is market risk, which generally, even in the derivatives book, is smaller than the credit risk. 

 So I would say, no, that's only one component of what we hold capital for, and on balance, I would say that if you look at derivative activities in general, or trading activities in general, it's certainly not the largest component for which we hold capital. 

 ANALYST: But isn't there - 

 MARK: I don't feel constrained with regard to the expansion of that activity. Our capital ratios are very strong. 

 ANALYST: So in other words, at the moment, you don't feel that there's any link between the amount of capital in the institution and the amount of trading activity. 

 MARK: Well, there's no question there's a link, but what you said was that all our capital was devoted to it or we were constrained by it, and I don't feel that way. 

 ANALYST: I see. Okay. Thank you. 

 MARK: We'll take the next question in the room. Right here. 

 ANALYST: Thank you. The question regards slide 8, just on credit, going back to a couple of the credit questions. 

 I was interested in your comments on the Enron surety bond. It just seems to me from what I've done, in terms of research, in general surety bonds either get paid right away or they never get paid, and in fact, if they don't get paid, even [inaudible] lawsuit, how does that affect your reserves as a percent of loan, how does that affect your capital [inaudible]? 

 MARK: The way we're accounting for the surety bonds is that they're held in other assets. FAS 5 is very specific on this situation. If you have a loss contingency or a contingent event that might cause you to have a loss, if it's more probable than not that it will happen, then you have to record the loss. If it is not more probable than not, then you don't record the loss. 

 In our case, our opinion is that it is not probable that we will have a loss. We believe that we will win the lawsuit and that the counter-parties are creditworthy and will pay when they're ordered to do so by the court. 

 If we don't win, then we would have to write it down to the value of an unsecured claim against Enron. It's not exactly an all-or-nothing situation because the facts of some of the sureties are slightly different than others, and we're dealing with 11 different insurance companies. 

 It could be all or nothing, but it doesn't have to be that way. 

 In any event, when something occurs that makes it change, either we get the money or there's a different probability that we will get the money, then we would have an accounting event that would happen at that time. There's no reserve. It's not in loan loss reserves. It was originally a trading sift. We moved it to other assets. Mike? 

 ANALYST: Yeah. Just a quick follow-up. How much insurance do you have for potential lawsuits or criminal fines or anything else you want to dream up? Do you have insurance for that, and how much? 

 MARK: Well, we have lots of insurance, but it all - sometimes the insurance companies don't pay, so I don't know that we're - I don't know that we're necessarily relying on that insurance. I think we believe that we don't have liability in these cases, and we'll have to see how it works out. 

 ANALYST: And separately, how much in reserves do you have for each Argentina and Brazil, and how does that compare to your cross-border exposure? 

 MARK: In Argentina, our net exposure is about $200 million, and I think our gross exposure would probably be around $500 million. Now, if you - if you take effectively credit reserves that we have both in the trading book and in the loan book. 

 In Brazil, the reserves would be much smaller than that as a percentage. The loan book we have are predominated, I would say, by commodity producers who get their money in dollars and who wouldn't necessarily be affected unless there was some severe currency controls. The counter-parties that we have in the trading book are, of course, carried at their current market spreads. 

 So I think it's something, again, that we've been clearly ahead of in terms of evaluating them at current market. That's not to say we don't have exposure, if there is a much more adverse situation than we presently have, but we are clearly mark-to-market with regard to both trading book and reserves that are sufficient to deal with the current outlook on the loan portfolio. 

 OPERATOR: 

 UNKNOWN SPEAKER: u've reduced your exposure in a 00:59:03 Brazil at a lot faster pace than some of your 00:59:06 peers. How are you evaluating the Brazilian 00:59:09 situation? 00:59:09 00:59:09 >> MARK: We're viewing it as a risky place right 00:59:11 now and one in which we think it's appropriate to 00:59:13 reduce our exposure. I is there another question 00:59:17 on the phone? 00:59:18 00:59:18 >> OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question, from 00:59:20 the phone lines, is coming from Steve [inaudible] 00:59:24 of second curve capital. Please state your 00:59:25 question. 00:59:26 00:59:26 >> ANALYST: Thanks. My question has already been 00:59:30 answered. 00:59:30 00:59:30 >> MARK: Okay. And then we'll take the last 00:59:32 question here in the room. 00:59:33 00:59:33 >> ANALYST: Two questions, Mark. One on - on 00:59:36 the investment bank and the other is sort of 00:59:38 credit related. On the investment bank, if you 00:59:40 look at the compensation expense, the absolute 00:59:42 number, it's down substantially from earlier last 00:59:48 year, but the last three quarters, it's basically 00:59:50 been pretty flat as an absolute number, despite 00:59:52 rather volatile revenue, so the first issue is, 00:59:56 what does that - what, if anything, does that say 00:59:58 about bonus accruals during that period, and what's your policy about that? 

 Secondly, given that it's flat at a rather low number in the sense of, you know, mid-30s comp expense ratio, how many downside flexibility do you have in that number? And then I'll come back to the credit thing. 

 MARK: Okay. One thing that's affected it in the last couple of quarters is the inclusion of severance costs in compensation, which we didn't have in the fourth quarter of last year. We were charging it in a different way. We had some in the first quarter, and we had more in the second quarter. 

 So that has had some effect on it. With regard to whether we can move down - or whether we're constrained because it's already at a very low level, there are some structural reasons why ours is lower than some of our peers, including the inclusion of a loan portfolio which has a lower expense to revenue ratio. And because I think the size of our business enables us to be more efficient. 

 I do think, obviously, there is some point at which, as revenues decline, it gets more and more difficult to keep that ratio in line. We are not - I don't know that we're at that point yet, but if we get to much further declines in revenue, then I think that that is - that would be something that would put pressure on that number. 

 ANALYST: And moving on to credit, as you know, the [inaudible] committee put out a press release last week with some substantial changes in their proposals, and even though they haven't publicly released the next - the guidance for the quantitative impact study yet, I gather they've been discussing it with the banks in some detail over the last few weeks. So are you in a position at this point to talk at all about the effects of this on J. P. Morgan Chase? 

 MARK: It's pretty much a changing landscape. From what we've seen, our best guess is that it would probably result in lower required capital ratios for us. We are operating at capital ratios that are well above regulatory required capital ratios today, so it's - I don't know whether it would have a significant effect on what we carry, because what we carry is what we think is appropriate to the risk that we have today, without regard to regulatory minimums. 

 But I think that from what little - the work we've done in a rapidly changing landscape - and some of it is hard to do because it calls for significant technological investment to get the data that's necessary to do it - but our general supposition would be that regulatory minimums certainly are not going to go up, and may go down relative to our adoption of the [Bazel] conventions. 

 ANALYST: Thank you. 

 MARK: Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate your coming, and we will continue to be around both here and on the phone to respond to your questions. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and have a wonderful day. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   AN
Document fndw000020021226dy7h000n8
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q2  2002 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
6,756 words
   PD
17 July 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Dina Dublon, CFO   . David (Phonetic), (Indiscernible)   . Mark (Phonetic), (Indiscernible) 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Retail led the way again with another record quarter. Weak trading offset the gains and drove results lower. The commercial portfolio remains under pressure, led by telecom and cable. Q&A Focus: On general surety bonds. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call   1. Operating EPS = $0.58.   2. Operating earnings = $1.2b.   3. Return on equity = 11%. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. 2Q02 RESULTS   1. 2Q02 earnings were comparable to 1Q02, but below analyst      consensus estimate.   2. JPM gained market share in investment bank, in a market that      continues to shrink.   3. Weak trading more than offset the gains and drove results lower.   4. Tech and telecom continues to drive the write-downs.   5. Operating EPS was $0.58 a share, up $0.01 from 1Q02 and up over      50% from 2001, because of the very large write-downs in JP      Morgan Partners in 2001.   6. Excluding JP Morgan Partners, EPS is slightly down 3-4% from both 2001 and 1Q02.   7. Reported EPS, net of the previously announced merger and      relocation charges was $0.50.   8. These charges were $230m pre tax.   9. For 2H02 non-operating merger charges were estimated at about      $700m.   10. Revenues were up 9% from 2Q01.   11. Excluding JP Morgan Partners, revenues were flat, but with a      significant change in mix.   12. Over $700m increases in revenues from retail offset the $600m      revenue decline in investment bank. 13. Total revenues were flat to 1Q with a very similar change in mix, lower trading revenues, and higher retail revenues.   14. JPM continues to manage a positive operating leverage by      reducing expenses.   15. Credit costs are up significantly from 2001.   16. 2Q02 operating earnings were $1.2b.   17. ROE was 11% for 2Q02 and for 1H02. 18. Expenses are down 3% from 1Q02 and 5% from 2Q01.   19. OPEX include $160m in non-merger, severance, and related costs.   20. OPEX was up from about $100m in 1Q02.   21. Costs will continue to flow through the operating line.   22. Credit costs are high, but stable. 23. Commercial charge-offs were $290m or almost 1.2% of commercial loans.   24. Managed credit card charge-offs are higher.   25. Providian charge-offs are up from 1Q02.   26. Total provision (Phonetic) equaled charge-off in 2Q02 and 1Q02.   27. JPM holds reserves against retained consumer loans.   28. Providian and other card securitizations and lower loss rate in      auto finance contributed to $130m relief in consumer reserves.   29. JPM increased the unallocated portion of the total reserve by      $120m.   30. Unallocated reserves are now over $800m, 16% of total reserves      vs. 14% in 1Q, and 11% in 2Q01.   31. JPM's policy is to stay between 10% and 20%.   32. Non-performing assets are up slightly to $4.4b from additions      primarily in the telecom sector.   33. Argentine credit exposure net of reserves is about $200m. 34. JPM managed its Brazilian exposure down to $2.1b as of the end of 2Q02, from $3.3b at the end of the year.   35. Reserves of $5b are unchanged from 1Q02 and up $1.3b from 2001.   36. Loans were down and are leading to an increase in the      reserve-to-loan ratio of about 70 basis points.   37. The commercial portfolio remains under pressure, led by telecom      and cable.   38. JPM expects total reserves to stay at about the same level.   39. Retail and middle market posted record earnings of $686m, up      29% from 1Q02 and 60% from 2001.   40. ROE was 26% and for the 1H, it was 24%.   41. Retail was almost 60% of consolidated earnings of 2Q02.   42. Revenues of $3.5b were driven by consumer-lending businesses.   43. Compared to 2001, Providian adds 10% to revenue growth and 5%      to expense growth.   44. Overhead ratio declined to 48%.   45. Continued to show organic growth in cards for the seventh      consecutive quarter adding 900,000 in new accounts.   46. Deposits are up 12% from 2001.   47. Home finance income almost doubled from 2001.   48. JPM had net hedging gain of $160m.   49. Even if the environment continues to be positive as expected by      JPM, revenues and earnings for retail may be lower for the rest      of 2001.   50. Treasury and security services also had a record quarter, with earnings up 22% from 1Q02 and 16% from 2001.   51. ROE rebounded to 23%.   52. Revenues at $985m are up 2% from 2001 and up 5% from 1Q02. 53. Revenues are up 9% from pickup in custody fees, foreign exchange revenues, and securities lending fee.   54. Institutional revenues are up 9%.   55. Treasury services revenues are down 1% vs. both 1Q02 and 2Q02.   56. Deposit levels and fees are up in the business.   57. Expenses are under control.   58. Overhead ratio dropped to 72%.   59. The group works towards a long-term overhead ratio of 68%.   60. Earnings in the investment bank are at $485m, down 35% and 38%      from prior periods on very weak revenue and high credit costs. 61. JPM put in place a new client coverage model and included in operating expenses, severance related charges of $120m, up from $50m in 1Q.   62. Overhead ratio for 2Q02 was 65% and it's 62% YTD. 63. Excluding the severance-related cost, the ratio is 61% for 2Q02 and 59% YTD.   64. ROE for 2Q02 was 10% and 13% YTD. 

 B. INVESTMENT BANK REVENUE   1. Trading and brokerage commissions combined are at $1.4b are down      over 20% from 2001 and 1Q02.   2. Weak trading, particularly in June, drove the decline.   3. Fixed income is down 11% from 2001 because of declines in      emerging market trading.   4. Equities are down 45% from the 2Q01, primarily equity derivatives.   5. The decline from the 1Q02 is primarily from cash business.   6. Trading was unusually weak in June and may rebound.   7. The outlook for the 2H remains very uncertain. 

 C. MARKET SHARE PROGRESS   1. JPM maintained or increased strength of market share relative to      2001.   2. In each case, market share in 2Q was higher than in the 1H02,      highlighting the momentum in 2Q. 3. Market gain shares really validate the value to clients of the broad investment-banking model.   4. Seeing the benefits from the investment in equities.   5. JPM is outpacing in a shrinking market. 6. YTD global disclosed fees for the market are down about 15% vs. 2Q01, up 30%.   7. Equity markets activity is running at 98 levels.   8. M&A is running at 95 levels.   9. Syndicated loan volumes increased very modestly from 1Q02, but      are down compared to 2001. 

 D. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND PRIVATE BANKING   1. Earnings are about the same as of 2Q01, as expense reductions      more than offset lower revenues and higher credit costs.   2. Earnings are down 6% from 1Q02. 3. Return on equity was 8%.   4. Tangible return on equity is in excess of 20%.   5. The pre tax margin was 21%, up from 2Q01, but down 22% from      1Q02.   6. Private bank revenues, about half of the total revenues of the      group, declined 9% from 1Q02 on lower client activity.   7. Investment management revenues were flat with 1Q.   8. Assets under management fell $40b from the end of March to      $540b. 9. Retail assets under management are up 11% from 2001 and flat with March, despite market depreciation.   10. JP Morgan Partners had a private equity loss that narrowed to a      $125m.   11. 70% of the write-downs and write-offs came from tech and      telecom and remain at high levels.   12. Realized gains of $110m that partially offset the write-downs      and write-offs.   13. The mark-to-market on the public portfolio had less of an      impact in 2Q.   14. Losses were partially offset by hedge gains and the gain on the      Jet Blue IPO.   15. The public portfolio now in the books is at about $700m.   16. JPM have a few transactions in the pipeline and is expected to      close in 3Q. 17. Seagate Technologies has filed for an IPO, which is scheduled for the 2H02. 

 E. BALANCE SHEET   1. JPM's Tier 1 capital ratio remains high at 8.7%, up from 8.3% at      year-end.   2. JPM is not repurchasing stock.   3. Assets are up 4% from 1Q02 due to increase in trading assets.   4. Commercial loans are down 77% (Phonetic)from 2001 and are      slightly up this quarter.   5. Risk-weighted assets are down from 1Q as well as from year-end. 

 F. SUMMARY   1. Diversification has helped to maintain operating results.   2. Earnings from the investment bank are down $300m from 2001, a      38% decline.   3. The increase in retail and services is over $280m, making up for      most of the decline.   4. Continued to strengthen the franchise in both retail or      investment banking.   5. Capital market businesses continued to suffer from slow      corporate activity and reduced market values with no clear      turning point yet.   6. Regarding short-term, JPM sees no improvement with potentially      some pressure in revenues and credit.   7. JPM recognizes that reputation is one of its most valuable      assets. 

 G. PLUSES AND MINUSES   1. POSITIVES     1. JPM had a great performance in the retail side, with record        revenues and record earnings.     2. Investment banking market share picked up across the board,        across all products.     3. Credit costs are stable in a difficult environment.   2. NEGATIVES     1. Credit costs are still high relative to historical standards.     2. Investment banking revenues, particularly trading revenues,        are weak relative to historical standards and the potential of        the company.     3. Private equity continues to show losses and not much        opportunity for realized gain. 

 H. CLOSING REMARKS   1. JPM's goal is simply to continue with the strategy it has and to      continue to execute on the strategy until it gets to that time      when the bottom-line results can show the benefit of that.   2. Continues to believe that they have a tremendous operating      leverage. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  The EPS run rate for the last two years has been around $2 and that  even at the NASDAQ peak in 1999, you never got to that level. At what point is it appropriate to address the current dividend level  and consider cutting it until some of these cyclical problems  resolve? 

 A.  Our outlook depends on the visibility for getting to the $4-4.5, which would be comfortable with our policy. It takes three things to get there. It takes a more normal private equity revenue rate, a  more normal trading and investment-banking environment, and credit  costs at normal levels. If those three things happen, then we would  be at that earnings level. We feel comfortable waiting as long as  we're comfortably covering the dividend and as long as we are  increasing our capital ratios. We believe that we will get to those  levels. If those conditions change, then I think we would reassess  that, but at the present time, that continues to be how we feel  about it. 

 A.  I guess what I took away from what you were saying is that the earnings in the retail business were boosted by the hedge gains, so retail earnings will probably be down in the 2H, and you don't see anything turning around in investment banking in the 2H, to see earnings improving in the 2H from what they were in the 1H and possibly could be weaker. 

 Q2.  Trading results were weak as you pointed out and they seemed to be  weaker than some of your peers who were on the same calendar quarter. Could you elaborate on that a little bit? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  Our results on a prior-year quarter, on a quarterly basis, do look weak, but we had a very strong quarter a year ago. It was about  $1.6b in revenues. We had a very strong quarter in 1Q02. It was  about $1.7b. This quarter came in at $1.1b, $200m of that difference  was emerging markets, largely Brazil. Another third of it was  related to the rates business and weakness in the rates business in  the prior periods. The final part was the equities derivatives  business. So, the equity derivatives were strong in the 2Q01. That's  largely related to deal flow, lack of deal activity in that market,  and that's where we've seen the weaknesses. We're looking at these  from a reasonably strong level. `DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO,  THIS PORTION OF THE EVENT BRIEF Q&A HAS BEEN EXCLUDED. ` We were at  $1.7b in the 1Q01, $1.1b was a low quarter for us overall and $200m  of that related to our emerging markets in Brazil. I think it's the  ups and downs of the trading business. But I think we came from a  very high 1Q. 

 A.  We were at $1.7b in the 1Q01, $1.1b was a low quarter for us overall, but if you take $200m of that related to our emerging  markets in Brazil, I think it's the ups and downs of the trading  business. But I think we came from a very high 1Q. 

 Q3.  Can you comment more on the outlook for the 2H02? 

 A.  I don't have much to add on what I said before. We can all look at the numbers. There isn't much visibility on the investment banking side. What we have is somewhat based (Phonetic) on trading results because June was particularly weak. On the other hand, we had some unusual items hedging as well. In this quarter, we had unusually low trading and somewhat unusual market-sensitive items on the mortgage banking side. For the remainder of the year, it's more of the same (Indiscernible) as being management. 

 Q4.  Given the revenue weakness, where do you stand on expense initiatives? How much expense savings do you have and what is left?  On venture capital, how scrubbed is the private portion of the  portfolio and what kind of losses are you looking at? Could you just  comment on some of the regulatory investigations? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  With regard to expense initiatives, I think we continue to be very focused on expenses. We have continued to reduce people, especially  in those areas where we have revenue declines, which are primarily  in investment management and treasury securities services and in investment banking. In the consumer business, where we have strong volume growth, we are adding people to deal with the volume growth  and expense growth that is lower than our revenue growth, even when  you make all the various adjustments. So I think it is something  that we are clearly cognizant of, the need to keep the pressure on  expenses, and we continue to do so. Because we push all of the costs  of doing that into our operating expenses, it doesn't show up quite  as immediately as it did if you were pushing it to a non-operating  cost. But I think it is clear that we're going to continue to focus  on those initiatives. Six Sigma has been a very important part of  what we are doing. It was utilized first in the retail bank because  they weren't going through a merger and I think they have several  $100m of payback from it. We're applying it more broadly across the  company now as we have gotten through with the merger and I think we  will see additional fruits from that. On the venture capital, we  feel comfortable with our evaluations. We have a very intensive  process that we go through of looking at each company that is  subject to both people in the company and people outside of the  private equities side taking an independent look at it. The market,  especially in telecommunications, has continued to decline. I think  with that, there have been some write-downs in our portfolio. I  can't predict whether that market is going to continue to decline.  At some point, I know it won't. But as long as it is, there probably  will be some continued write-downs. There's some sign that it may be  getting close to the bottom, but we'll have to see whether that works out or not. With regard to investigations, I think everybody  is investigating everything that is associated with some of the  highly visible transactions. We are comfortable that what we did was  the right thing and understand why they want to investigate, and we  are cooperative with them. `DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO, THIS  PORTION OF THE EVENT TRANSCRIPT HAS BEEN EXCLUDED. ` 

 Q5.  `DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO, THIS PORTION OF THE EVENT TRANSCRIPT HAS BEEN EXCLUDED. ` 

 A.  `DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO, THIS PORTION OF THE EVENT TRANSCRIPT HAS BEEN EXCLUDED. ` Scores of that portfolio are not significantly different than our own, but they had not worked the portfolio in the same way that we do in terms of talking to people  and being an active management of balances, as people become  delinquent or not. So, we felt that the charge-offs would be higher  and the model that we used in the acquisition are called forth to be  higher than it has turned out to be. So, when we say our charge-off  ratio is higher because of the inclusion of it for a full quarter as  opposed to two months, it is not that we are disappointed in the  results. That's what we expected to happen. We're actually making  more money on a bottom-line basis than we expected to make in the  first six months of the acquisition. We think over time it will turn  out to be a terrific moneymaking proposition, though it even is  today. So it simply means that our ratio is higher than it would  have otherwise been, but we're not disappointed in it. 

 Q6.  On the private equity, you were saying the issue was really not on  the write-downs but more on the realized gain side. Was that what you were inferring? (Henry McVey - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  I was inferring that we are not expecting any large write-downs on JP Morgan Partners. We don't have the same concentration issues that we had a year ago. In order for us to see a positive bottom line, we need to see (Indiscernible). That's not to say we won't have write-downs. 

 A.  I you look at historical levels of write-downs, they would have run  for some long period of time in the range of a $100-150m a quarter and even $200m a quarter would not be unusual. It is not so unusual  to have $200m in write-downs. What's unusual is that we don't have  the realized gains to offset that. You would expect in the portfolio  of our size to be in the neighborhood of $500m a quarter. 

 Q7.  The home finance went from 132 to 268 and auto finance went from 33  to 82. I heard you mention that there was a gain on a hedge. Was there anything else that really bolstered those numbers? (Henry  McVey - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  Yes. In auto finance, we had a reduction in the credit loss allowance, in the provision, because our methodology is predicated  on delinquencies, current losses, retained loans, and expectations  of future losses, and also average holding period. So, for this  quarter, the reserve in that business was higher than it needed to  be. In addition to the fact it had very good volume growth and very  much wider spreads in that business. As people have gotten out of  that business and as there's less competition in that business. And  as we're in a favorable interest rate environment, we have seen  spreads widen in that business. With regard to the mortgage  business, it was partially helped by hedge gains. But also it would  be true to say that origination gains, the warehouse effect, spreads  on warehouse's loans, and the positive continued increase in  servicing also contributed to the improved earnings. 

 Q8.  You said in your commentary that you expect continued revenue pressure and continued high credit costs. If you infer that you are saying that the consumer bucket is getting better. So, most of the issues that we should be looking for on the credit side are related  to the corporate? (Henry McVey - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  Consistent with what we said in the 1Q that consumer costs are getting better. Consumer credit is getting better. We are still  seeing continued positive delinquency. That will probably mean that  provisions in the consumer area will probably continue to be  somewhat less that actual charge-offs. On the commercial side, it's  possibly the reverse, although we're seeing a leveling out of  problems and although there's a lot of stuff in the news, it's not  necessarily new news to us. We're charging off a significant amount  of loans as we try to stay ahead of this game. For the provision to  go up, your loans have to deteriorate by more than what you charge  off. And it's a point, which is probably not too far away. 

 Q9.  You mentioned that an unallocated reserve policy of 10-20% and you  now are moving up on allocated reserves to 16% this quarter. Other banks commonly have unallocated reserve levels considerably higher  and it seems a little bit odd that you're this far into a credit  cycle and you're only now going into the upper half of that policy  range, how do you first ramp (Phonetic) up those issues? (Judah S.  Kraushaar - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  Our reading of the SEC policy is that you should not have an unallocated reserve that is significantly higher than that. With regard to where we are in the credit cycle, we don't really look at  it as where we are in the credit cycle. Our normal policy is that provision equals charge-off. We also run through this specific allocation methodology. If that policy leads us to one where we have too high an unallocated, then we would bring provision down below charge-off. If the reverse happened, if it was too low unallocated  as was in danger of happening last year, then we would raise the  provision to offset it. So I think our policy is very consistent. I  think it is absolutely in accordance with what the SEC wants, and it  is a methodology that we've followed for the past several years  fairly religiously. 

 Q10.  If the consumer continues to improve, you're going to have more releases of consumer reserves, and to keep provision equal to charge-offs, it would seem like you could get fairly quickly to a  case where you'd go above 20% unallocated. Would you let that  happen? Would you change the unallocated policy? (Judah S. Kraushaar  - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  No, we wouldn't let that happen. 

 Q11.  I think that investment management fees as apart from transactional  fees in the investment management business were flat this quarter.  Can you reconcile that with a drop in managed assets? In the investment bank, the core overhead ratio, apart from severance, went from 57-61%. I think your goal was 60%. Can we see any improvement  in 2H from these levels if markets don't really recover or are we  just going to hang above the goal indefinitely here? (Judah S.  Kraushaar - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  Of course, it gets easier as revenue increases. If revenue continues  to fall or be short of that, then it gets more difficult and we'll  have to decide where we land up, in terms of primarily compensation  as it relates to that level. We are looking at it carefully, both  trying to balance long-term and short-term interest, but I think  we've had a good record of managing expenses down to the significant  revenue shortfall we've had so far, and it's something that we'll  continue to try to manage to those levels. The ability to do it will  be somewhat dependent on where the revenue levels fall out. 

 A.  The A-1 (Phonetic) numbers that Dina talked about were quarter-end to quarter-end, and most of the market reduction occurred in June,  and there is somewhat of a lag between revenues associated with  investor management and the actual investor management number. Of  the $40b, $21b is represented of money market assets, which are  generally lower yielding, and of that $21b, $14.5b came from  specifically one government client where the yield on those assets  was less than 4 basis points. We are seeing net growth in our retail  assets, which are tending to be higher-yield. So, we would expect  some impact from the market reduction to flow through our revenue  number in 3Q02, although partially offset by the improvement in the  mix of our assets from institution to retail. 

 Q12.  History seems to teach us that when there's a poor quarter in trading, it usually snaps back fairly quickly, usually in the very following quarter. Do you feel that this is a different situation? This is a little philosophical, on Aug. 14; I gather you signed your name again. What are your thoughts and actions? How are you thinking differently or not about that, and what are you hearing from some of your peers? (Robert Albertson - Sandler O'Neill & Partners) 

 A.  I don't have a great crystal ball on what 3Q02 is going to look like  here. We did have a weak quarter in terms of trading. If you look at  our 1H02 vis--vis the other players, I would argue we're right in line. Some of the data I have shows us down about 20%, 1H02 over  1H01, and that's just about where everybody else was on the trading  side. The difficulty with predicting a quick snapback is two fold.  One is just these markets, and then the summer, which is definitely  a seasonal pattern to some of these things. So that's the difficulty  with making a prediction here. 

 Q13.  But is volatility lacking sufficiently? Is that the biggest bugaboo,  or is it just across the board? (Robert Albertson - Sandler O'Neill  & Partners) 

 A.  Volatility is certainly back, but some trend around it is the problem. 

 A.  With regard to the philosophical question, I would view that we sign  our names to any financial statements that we've ever put out, and  actually signing one more document probably doesn't make a whole lot  of difference. 

 Q14.  Do you think there are going to be changes in general because of this? (Robert Albertson - Sandler O'Neill & Partners) 

 A.  If you'd look at the broader issue of corporate America, I think the  closer scrutiny that people pay to all the practices that have grown  up over the last several years, it seems likely to me that there will be some additional changes in those practices. Given the fact that we have something like 6,000 public corporations, there's  likely to be some number of them that make changes as they apply  more scrutiny to a process and as practices, which maybe have been  laxed in the past get changed. That doesn't imply a fundamental  overhaul in the vast majority of very large companies in America.  We'll have to see how it comes out, but certainly that has been the  result so far. 

 Q15.  Can you update us on your telecom exposure? Why did the commercial  loan book and credit-related exposures grow this quarter, because  most of the companies that I have reported have had a flat-to-down  experience. (Chip Dickson - Lehman Brothers, Inc.) 

 A.  On the commercial exposure numbers, our actual commercial loans were  up slightly due to a large part to a couple of large over quarter-end client transactions, which actually now in the 3Q are no longer among us. We did see a rather dramatic upswing in our mark-to-market arena due to the movement in the dollar against other currencies as a general matter stepping down into our telecom exposure, we reported to you all a year ago and have subsequently published our credit-related assets as it relates to our telecom portfolio. We are down 15% in total credit-related assets on telecom since a year ago, basically pretty flat to the 1Q02 and we're continuing to manage that number as tightly as you would expect we would be. As part of our overall mix, it continues to be in the area that is giving the industry the most edge (Phonetic). (Suzanne Hammett) 

 Q16.  Could you tell us how the shared national credit exam went for J. P.  Morgan Chase? The shared national credit exam, how did it go for you? (Chip Dickson - Lehman Brothers, Inc.) 

 A.  We do not have our final numbers yet, but the preliminary indications are that actually we came out quite well, and we are particularly pleased with that preliminary performance against how  we felt we did last year, which wasn't poor, but we could improve  upon that performance. So we feel pretty good about what the outcome  will be of shared national credit, which should be basically an Aug.  event for us. 

 Q17.  About the outlook for the 2H, I guess so far that you guys have posted about a $1.15 and took consensus you'd have to hit $1.56 in  the 2H. Do you think that's reasonable, given where consensus is  today? (Andrew Collins - U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc.) 

 A.  As you know, we don't comment on specific bottom-line EPS numbers, and we allow you to do your own work. 

 Q18.  Trading was kind of weak in June. I was wondering, so far how it's  going in July? If you could touch on the hedging gains, given the steepness in the yield curve, didn't you see a lot of mortgage servicing losses that might not be there going forward if the  hedging gains go away? (Andrew Collins - U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray  Inc.) 

 A.  Well, with regard to the former, we don't comment on it between quarters, in terms of what the outcome is because it changes so much from day-to-day. With regard to the latter, it of course is possible that if interest rates or mortgage rates don't change, that we will not see the servicing write-downs that we saw in the 2Q02. What happened in the 2Q02 was we had significant servicing write-downs,  but the assets that we had to hedge with those write-downs actually  more than offset that. So, what would happen in the 3Q02 is  anybody's guess. I think we have very good systems for managing that  risk. I think managing mortgage servicing risk is one of the most  complex things that any company can do and it is something that we  spend a great deal of time on, because it has importance to our  business. But I think it would be one of those areas where it would  be very difficult to predict what the outcome would be from  month-to-month. 

 Q19.  In the trading issue, you won't say one way or another about the Brazilian situation? (Andrew Collins - U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc.) 

 A.  I'll say that we've reduced (Phonetic) our exposure, and I'll say that we continue to mark things to market. We're not necessarily always longing in our trading exposures. So, it's a question of getting it right and we'll have to see how it turns out. 

 Q20.  I'm trying to figure out the relationship between the bank's capital  and its trading activities. I make the assumption that the risk in  the derivatives portfolio is roughly equal to the company's common equity at the present time. I then make the further assumption that there is a constraint on your ability to expand your trading activities if you're in that situation. Could you clarify whether  that has any relevance or not? (Richard (Indiscernible) - Hoffer  Internet) 

 A.  Not only that's the way we would look at it. We've got two risks. One is our credit risk, in the derivative portfolio is a receivable  of about $70b.  When your net cash collateral is against that, it's between $45b and $50b. We look at that just like commercial loan exposures a $100b, consumer loan exposure is another $125b. We would look at the grade, the rating of the counter-party and we would  assign capital based on that rating. Actually, in our derivatives  portfolio 85% of the counter-parties are investment grade. Then the  second risk we've got is market risk, which generally, even in the  derivatives look (Phonetic), is smaller than the credit risk. So I  would say, now there is only one component of what we hold capital  for and on balance, I would say that if you look at derivative  activities or trading activities in general, it's certainly not the  largest component for which we hold capital. I don't feel  constrained with regard to the expansion of that activity. Our  capital ratios are very strong. 

 Q21.  At the moment, you don't feel that there is any link between the amount of capital in the institution and the amount of trading activity? (Richard (Indiscernible) - Hoffer Internet) 

 A.  What you said was that all our capital was devoted to it or we were  constrained by it, and I don't feel that way. 

 Q22.  In terms of research in general surety bonds either get paid right  away or they never get paid, and in fact, if they don't get paid even provision (Phonetic) of a lawsuit, how does that affect your reserves as a percent of loan? How does that affect your capital opportunities? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  The way we're accounting for the surety bonds is that they're held in other assets. FAS 5 (Phonetic) is very specific on this  situation. If you have a loss contingency or a contingent event that  might cause you to have a loss, if it's more probable than not that  it will happen, then you have to record the loss. If it is not more  probable than not, then you don't record the loss. In our case, our  opinion is that it is not probable that we will have a loss. We  believe that we will win the lawsuit and that the counter-parties  are creditworthy and will pay when they're ordered to do so by the  court. If we don't win, then we would have to write it down to the  value it on unsecured claim against Enron. It's not exactly an  all-or-nothing situation because the facts of some of the sureties  are slightly different than others, and we're dealing with 11  different insurance companies. In any event, when something occurs  that makes it change, either we get the money or there's a different  probability that we will get the money, then we would have an  accounting event that would happen at that time. There's no reserve.  It's not in-loan loss reserves. It was originally a trading asset.  We moved it to other assets. 

 Q23.  How much insurance do you have for potential lawsuits or criminal  fines or anything else you would dream up? Do you have insurance for  that, and how much? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  Well, we have lots of insurance, but sometimes the insurance companies don't pay. I don't know they were necessarily lying on  that insurance. I think we believe that we don't have liability in  these cases and we'll have to see how it works out. 

 Q24.  How much in reserves do you have for Argentina and Brazil, and how  does that compare to your cross-border exposure? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  In Argentina, our net exposure is about $200m and I think our gross  exposure would probably be around $500m, if you take effectively credit reserves that we have both in the trading book and in the  loan book. In Brazil, the reserves would be much smaller than that  as a percentage. The loan book we have are predominated by commodity producers who get their money in dollars and who wouldn't be  affected unless there was some severe currency controls. The  counter-parties that we have in the trading book are carried at  their current market spreads. So I think it's something, again, that  we've been clearly ahead of in terms of evaluating them at current  market. That's not to say we don't have exposure, if there is a much  more adverse situation than we presently have, but we are clearly  mark-to-market with regard to both trading book and reserves that  are sufficient to deal with the current outlook on the loan  portfolio. 

 Q25.  You've reduced your exposure in Brazil at a lot faster pace than some of your peers. How are you evaluating the  Brazilian situation? 

 A.  We're viewing it as a risky place right now and one in which we think it's appropriate to reduce our exposure. 

 Q26.  On the investment bank, if you look at the compensation expense, the  absolute number is down substantially from earlier last year, but the last three quarters, it's basically been pretty flat as an absolute number, despite rather volatile revenue. So, the first  issue is, does that say about bonus accruals during that period, and  what's your policy about that? It's flat at a rather low number in  the sense of mid 30s compensation expense ratio, how many downside  flexibility do you have in that number? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  One thing that's affected it in the last couple of quarters is the inclusion of severance costs in compensation, which we didn't have  in the 4Q01. We were charging it in a different way. We had some in  the 1Q and we had more in the 2Q. So, that has had some effect on  it. With regard to whether we can move down or whether we're  constrained because it's already at a very low level, there are some  structural reasons why ours is lower than some of our peers  including the inclusion of a loan portfolio, which has a lower  expense to revenue ratio. I think the size of our business enables  us to be more efficient. I do think, obviously there is some point,  which as revenues decline, gets more and more difficult to keep that  ratio in line. I don't know that we're at that point yet, but if we  get to much further declines in revenue, then there would be  something that would put pressure on that number. 

 Q27.  As you know, the Brazil (Phonetic) committee put out a press release  last week with some substantial changes in their proposals. Even  though they haven't publicly released the guidance for the quantitative impact study yet, they've been discussing it with the banks in some detail over the last few weeks. Are you in a position  at this point to talk at all about the effects of this on J. P.  Morgan Chase? 

 A.  It's pretty much of a changing landscape. From what we've seen, our  best guess is that it would probably result in lower required capital ratios for us. We are operating at capital ratios that are well above our regulatory required capital ratios today. I don't  know whether it would have a significant effect on what we carry,  because what we carry and what we think is appropriate to the risk  that we have today, without regard to regulatory minimums. But, I  think that from the little work we've done in a rapidly changing  landscape and some of it is hard to do because it calls for  significant technological investment to get the data that's  necessary to do it. Our general supposition would be that regulatory  minimums certainly are not going to go up, and may go down relative  to our adoption of the Brazil (Phonetic) conventions. 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i7902 : Telecommunications | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy7h005bl
  


 HD
 Q1  2002 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
10,712 words
   PD
17 April 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the JP Morgan Chase & Company Conference Call. The conference call today may contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of JP Morgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are described in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2001, of JP Morgan Chase & Company filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Commissions internet site: http://www.sec.gov to which reference is hereby made. As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, press will be on today's conference call on a listen-only mode. 

   TD
  Again, we thank you for your patience and your JP Morgan Chase & Company Conference Call will begin momentarily. Thank you. 

 MARK: Welcome you to our quarterly meeting following earnings release this morning for JP Morgan Chase. We're in a slightly different room because we're working on the other room and I gather that during construction we have to temporarily relocate. So we're now on the top floor and we have a great view of the city only we can't see the view. In any event, we're going to follow the normal format for this morning. Dina Dublon is going to give you her analysis of our results for the quarter. I'm going to come back and make a few comments and then both she and I and a number of members of our senior management team are available here to take your questions both in the auditorium and on the phone. So, Dina, if you want to get it started. 

 DINA DUBLON, J.P. MORGAN CHASE & CO.: Hi. Good morning to all of you on the phone, and good morning to you here in the room. The first slide is our statement regarding possible risks and uncertainties in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act you cannot read it [ph].At the bottom of the page, however, there is one more statement that you cannot read, but it explains that our operating numbers for 2001 throughout the presentation have been restated by adding back goodwill amortization. This is our comparison of results on the same basis as this year's first quarter which includes the adoption of SFAS 142, so again, we restated at the prior periods. 

 Results exceeded by a few cents the consensus estimates for the quarter.Operating earnings more than tripled in a very weak fourth quarter. The revenue environment, however, remains slow and compared to the first quarter last year, results are down. We are, therefore, focused on expense management. Credit costs declined from the unusually high fourth quarter as loan loss provisions equaled loan losses this quarter. By line of business, retail led the way with a record quarter. Investment management and private banking had a benefit of lower expenses and a very large improvement in the pre-tax margin. The investment bank delivered a return on equity of 16% in the difficult operating environment. JP Morgan Partners recorded another loss driven by the decline in the market price of Triton PCS. In this environment, we are maintaining strong liquidity and capital. There is a premium for both. Excluding JP Morgan Partners, earnings per share of $0.69 was down $0.05 from the first quarter of last year. This would have been flat if we had not restated prior periods for SFAS 142. Consolidated operating ETS after the $0.12 negative contribution of JP Morgan Partners was $0.57, again, well above the $0.17 in the fourth quarter, but $0.20 below last year. Non-operating charges were $0.09 this quarter, or about $250 million. For the full year, we have $1.2 billion in charges for the previously announced merger and relocation programs. Non-operating charges were much higher in 2001 at $2.5 billion for the year.We had this quarter, and will have in the rest of the year, additional severance costs which are included in operating expenses. I'll come back to this issue when reviewing expenses. Consolidated operating earnings for the quarter were $1.15 billion. Return on equity for the quarter was 11%, better than the prior three-quarters, but still weak. Relative to the first quarter, if you look to the right hand side, relative to the first quarter, revenues are down 8%, five percentage points of that decline is from the loss from JP Morgan Partners versus a gain in the first quarter last year. Expenses are down by 8% as well. JP Morgan Partners realized gains for the quarter were negative $13 million, including about equal amounts, $170 million each, in cash realized gains and in write offs from direct investments. At $170 million per quarter, write offs are higher than what we consider normal, but we do not see the systematic concentration issues that drove the large loss last year. Most of the write offs continue to be in the T&T [ph] sector.Realized cash gains at $170 million were just enough to offset write offs. 

 We are seeing modest activity in public and private markets, generally in non-T&T [ph] industries. Recent gains include TCA, Fisher Scientific, Peoples First, and North [ph] in results this quarter the Jet Glue [ph] IPO last week. The M&A market will bounce back. It has not yet. We also had market to market losses of $270 million, about [inaudible] $240 million, about $200 million of which were driven by one stock Triton PCS. We had [inaudible] gains, but generally have not found an effective way to hedge the single security idiosyncratic risk in the fourth quarter. The investment pace is slow, just over $100 million this quarter with good build [ph] flow in life sciences, slow in industrials and in T&T [ph]. T&T [ph] is down to 24% of the total portfolio by the end of the quarter. Now excluding JP Morgan Partners, for the rest of the company, earnings of $1.4 billion compared to last year's $1.5 billion. Return on equity for the rest of the company was 16% despite the fate of the capital market and where we are in the credit cycle. You can see here in a more pronounced way positive operating leverage relative to the first quarter revenues were down 3% and expenses were down 8%. Looking at the expense trend, and first, you know, if you look fourth quarter to fourth quarter, so by the fourth quarter last year expenses at $4.8 billion were almost $800 million lower, or $800 million lower than when we announced the merger. There was $3 billion lower annual spending rate.First quarter of operating expenses are at and include $100 million in non-merger related severance costs, the charge for Sumitomo and the addition of Providian for a total of $230 million. The increase over the fourth quarter also reflects higher incentive compensation in line with stronger revenues and income compared to the fourth quarter. 

 Given softness in revenues, we are looking to reduce capacity.Costs of such actions will continue to flow through operating expenses this year. Each business is managing to a targeted overhead ratio inclusive of costs to execute their programs. In all, all businesses are managing to improve the ratio from last year. 

 We stated in January that with modest improvement in revenues, we were targeting flat expenses. Since then, we have closed on the acquisition of Providian, which adds over $260 in expenses. Yes, with softer revenues we will manage expenses to be down from last year. 

 Expenses and revenues have been restated to reflect recent accounting guidance requiring companies to record reimbursable costs paid on behalf of customers. This policy, which is effective January, [inaudible] revenues and expenses by an average $75 million per quarter, or $300 million for the year.Primarily, the change [inaudible] revenues and expenses is in treasury and security services in items like sub-custodian fees, which we now [inaudible] in revenue and expenses. But it does not impact income in the restatement. 

 A few point that I want to make on credit costs. Commercial charge offs are still at the very high level, 127 basic points of loans. It is driven by pressure on the telecom sector in aerial [ph] focus for the last year. The credit card charge off ratio is higher as expected. Losses on the Providian portfolio were included for two months and were only 6.3% since we did not acquire impaired accounts. We had discussed with you that our assumption at the acquisition time was for losses here to exceed 9%. Providian will, therefore, contribute to a higher charge off ratio on the combined portfolio. In total, the provisions for loan losses equals charge offs. In the fourth quarter last year, loan loss provision exceeded charge offs by $650 million as ratings in the commercial portfolio had deteriorated and losses on retained consumer loans had risen. 

 Loan loss reserves are at $480 million from December, primarily because of the initial reserves set up for the Providian portfolio. Reserves are up by $1.3 billion from the first quarter of last year. We have been quick in recognizing commercial losses and we feel comfortable with the total loan loss reserves. We haven't seen a turn yet and we may have some more pressure to increase commercial reserves. 

 On the consumer side, we should see lower reserve requirements as the Providian portfolio revolves into securitized trust and retained loans decline. In total, we don't see the need to increase reserves in '02. The commercial reserves to commercial loans ratio is up to 1.8% from 1.4 in the first quarter last year. The ratio total reserves to loan is up 2.3% from 1.7% in the first quarter last year.Non-performing assets are up almost $400 million, primarily from one commercial loan in Europe. We may see inching up [ph] but do not expect significant worsening from where we are.Argentina was not an issue for us this quarter. We recognized losses in the fourth quarter. Net of allocated reserves exposure is down to $360 million with net loans and commitments representing a little over $100 million. Commercial loans are down 10% from last year and you can see still down from December despite well-publicized drawdowns of commitments. Turning to the lines of business, retail and leader markets led the way this quarter with record earnings of $526 million, and return on equity of 22%. The Providian acquisition closed in early February adding $150 million to revenues.This, coupled with the continuation of strong business volumes, led to revenue growth of 18% over the year ago quarter. Card added new accounts of over 900,000, the sixth consecutive quarter of such increases.Mortgage had strong results driven by continued low interest rates and the strong housing market. Auto origination set a new record and deposit volumes were up almost 14%. The business experienced positive operating leverage from Six Sigma productivity initiatives. The focus on end to end processing, doing it right the first time and explicit consideration of the voice of the client is adding momentum to the retail business. 

 Credit costs increased from first quarter due to higher outstanding and higher loss ratios. In total, provisions for credit losses was $60 million lower than consumer charge offs this quarter, compared to $250 million higher than charge offs in the fourth quarter last year. While 90 day delinquency volumes increased from fourth quarter, 30 and 60-day trends are more favorable, an early indication that credit may be improving. 

 Retail provides the diversification benefit to the corporation as wholesale businesses suffer from the weak after market environment.There is a good pipeline of business here with revenue growth and the cumulative impact of productivity driving bottom line growth for the rest of the year. Investment management and private banking earnings are up 30% from the fourth quarter and 19% from a year ago. Return on equity was 8%. Tangible return on equity which eliminates the goodwill is higher, it is at 27%.Revenue levels are down from last year but increased modestly from the fourth quarter. Lower expenses drove the earnings growth and increase in pre-tax margins to 22% despite higher credit costs in the last six months. 

 The retail funds business showed better fund performance and inflows from year-end with particular strengths on the international side where inflows were at a five-quarter high.Momentum here is expected to continue based on recent recognition from Standards & Poor, as well as Liefer [ph] for European and Asian equity fund performance. Institutional flows out of lower margin money market funds more than offset the modest inflows into equity products resulting in a 4% reduction in assets under management to $538 billion from year end. We had good momentum in the business and are managing to a long-term target, a long-term pre-tax margin of 30%. Investment bank earnings at $755 million are down 27% from the first quarter, and more than doubled the low fourth quarter level. Return on equity was 16%.Relative to the first quarter of last year, the impact of large revenue decline and large expense reduction is offset by higher credit cards. Compared to the fourth quarter, revenue growth and lower credit costs drive the doubling of income. Expenses are up from the fourth quarter in part because incentives are linked to higher revenue and income. Low market activity and high credit costs have continued to put pressure on expense management. Operating expenses in the quarter include the incremental costs of settlement with Sumitomo, which belonged to this line of business, as well as severance costs beyond the previously planned merger and restructuring costs. These initiatives are part of an ongoing effort to improve productivity in order to create a capacity to make strategic investments. In a drive to efficiency, we have been centralizing certain technology functions and allocating these costs out of the business as an indirect expense. This makes the reported compensation to revenue ratio less meaningful in comparison to peers. We are, therefore, focused on the total overhead ratio.Despite the expense pressure created by the severance by legal settlement, the investment bank managed with very strong financial discipline to an overhead ratio of 58%. This is lower than the prior target of 60% and is aimed to partially offset the effect of higher credit costs on the bottom line. Trading revenues are down 19% versus the very strong first quarter last year, the second best ever, I guess, and are up 66% from a very low fourth quarter, which included the impact of Enron and Argentina. Equities trading was down from the first quarter. inaudible] declined, I guess, than it appears. It is up from a very weak fourth quarter. Fixed income trading revenues of $1.5 billion was down 7% from last year. Bond trading was great, but our business mix is weighted toward foreign exchange and derivatives which benefited last year from declining rates. Investment banking fees of $740 million represent the lowest quarterly total in the last three years. Declines in advisory are in line with our peers. We lost share in the very tight market. We maintain leadership positions in long syndication and investment grade bond. The market volume in long syndication were over 20% lower. 

 For the first time, we were the number three underwriter of stocks and bond globally. The pipeline has leveled off in the past few months, though still at the low level compared to the beginning of last year.M&A is down while debt and equity underwritings are up from year end. 

 Treasury and security services income is down about 15% from both the fourth quarter and the first quarter of last year. Return on equity was down to 19% to a very good number, but down to 19%.Revenue decline was led by investor services. The business here is strong in cross border custody with lower activity and with diversion making equity market investor services had lower foreign exchange revenues, lower asset base fees and lower deposit balances. Institutional trust revenues were up from both the fourth quarter and the first quarter.Treasury services revenues were up from the first quarter last year driven by higher deposit volumes despite lower spreads and more funds under management from cross sales offset with investment bank and investment management. Expenses were up 3% year on year and 4% from the fourth quarter. Investor services in particular is working to determine the right level of staffing and infrastructure given each revenue decline with the number of Six Sigma projects underway. The accounting change I spoke of earlier grosses up [ph] revenues and expenses impact this group the most. It impacted this quarter [inaudible] by about $50 million, and for the year by about $220 million.The increase in the overhead this restatement of revenue grossing up [ph] of revenue and expenses causes the overhead ratio to appear higher by one and a half to two percentage points. It will lead to some adjustment to our targeted case of improving this ratio. We had stated to you that our target ratio here before was 65%. In this environment there is a premium for maintaining strong liquidity and capital.We raised $8 billion in additional liquidity this quarter and extended the average maturity of our commercial paper and our long-term debt. Given the current revenue environment and the non-operating charges I discussed, we do want to retain financial flexibility. We are managing to a Tier 1 ratio that is higher than our target. This quarter we closed on the acquisition of the Providian portfolio, we ended the quarter with a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%. We are not repurchasing stock.As the market improves and we generate free cash flow, we will review our buyback program. 

 Recognizing that the environment is not ideal, the results this quarter do show progress.Expense discipline continues to be a priority for the firm will manage to targeted overhead ratios in each of the businesses reacting to any softness in revenues, yet ensuring that we can selectively [inaudible]. With solid contribution for some of the businesses improving operating leverage in the whole company and eventually lower credit costs, we have loss of upside potential when capital markets recover. One firm, one team is our new call to arms in the firm. Looking to deliver to the client, the whole range of services we excel at and increasing our commitment and accountability for delivering results. 

 Before I turn the podium back to Mark, I want to mention that on April 26th we have a scheduled investor meeting. We will be sending out the notice later today. A few members of our senior management will be addressing some hot topics - commercial paper backup facilities, special purpose entities and derivatives. The meeting will be held here in this room beginning at 9:00 a.m. Friday, April 26th. There will be also a call in number and a webcast if you cannot attend in person. As usual, all materials will be posted on our website on the day of the meeting. Mark. 

 MARK: Thank you, Dina. Just to put in perspective a little bit this quarter's results in terms of perspective of longer-term trend, it seems to me that we are a company that has made great progress over the course of the past year, especially since the merger. But that progress has been obscured by four things.The first of them has been decline in the credit and the credit cycle becoming a much more negative effect on earnings causing us the need to build reserves. The second of those has been a reversal of the private equity valuations which has caused considerable reduction in what was previously earnings and the need to write down some investments. The third has been weakness in all capital markets activities, which we have not been immune from in terms of declines in the M&A marketplace and the [inaudible] impact of that in terms of financing. And the fourth thing has been the publicity associated with Enron, which was true initially and continues to be true. 

 Now the good news that I see is that the first three of those things are cyclical and the last, hopefully, is a one-time event, even though it may have a long tail in terms of publicity. The first three are cyclical. We know that. What we don't know is how long the cycle is. It does appear to be that there are signs that with regard to credit and private equity valuations, we are nearing the end of the cycle. And, therefore, the need to add to reserves is less, the need to take write downs will be less over time, and the opportunities for exit and better valuations in private equity will be better over time.We are certainly not ready to declare victory yet, but the heavy drag that those things have been on earnings appears to be lessening. 

 The upturn in capital market activity will probably be longer incoming. Again, we don't know when that will be. It will follow the uptick in the economy and we know that M&A generally has a fairly long lead time between announced transactions and seeing them come through our bottom line, both with respective [inaudible] and with respect to the financing and hedging activities that also drive a lot of our revenues.Because it may be an extended period of time, we are focusing significantly on expenses, particularly in the investment bank where we're trying to resize the expense face to projective revenues. We've made a great deal of progress, we are continuing to work on things that will engender more progress, even though there may be some short term costs in terms of severance and dealing with the cost of change. 

 The Enron situation appears to be with us for a while. We know that it's an event that caused great publicity even though there have been lots of other - people have lost a lot more money in other activities than Enron. We know that what we did was appropriate and proper and that over time we'll have the opportunity to [inaudible] case clearly. There's nothing we've done that shouldn't be public or couldn't be public.We're certainly cooperating with everybody that has a strong interest in it. 

 In the meantime, as these things recede, the strength of our franchise, I think, is showing through. We've had great progress in consumer banking, very strong top line growth and bottom line growth in consumer banking that, I think, has an opportunity to continue for quite some time. Trends are very positive here.We're certainly seeing improvement in margins and investment management and private banking, and think we are setting the table for the resumption of strong revenue growth. We are improving margins in investment banking in spite of declining revenues. Though the fundamentals are in place, these things that have retarded bringing those to the bottom line have certainly been in place, but, I think, see some easing of those pressures and hopefully, we can begin to see more of the progress that we feel in this company flow to bottom line and flow to shareholders. 

 With those comments, I'll be happy to respond to your questions and as I indicated earlier, I'm joined in the room by several of my colleagues who will take the more difficult questions. Ron. 

 RON: Thanks. I was just wondering if you, Mark, or maybe Suzanne, could elaborate on what you're seeing as the leading indicators of credit that give you some comfort at not building reserves and then the other question was if you could give more quantification of your outlook for expenses this year because you mentioned some things that would be added, like Providian and the gross up [ph], so are you actually looking for a dollar decline? If you could elaborate on that. 

 MARK: Sure. Suzanne, do you want to lead off? Do we have a microphone? 

 SUZANNE: Ron, Dina indicated, though it gave a sense of a couple of the indicators only in a little more detail. On the consumer front where it is easier to have a vision, if you will, as to credit quality, we are seeing an improvement in the delinquency rates, particularly, at this point, in the earlier maturities. And this has been a witness, if you will, in evidence through the first quarter of this year. 

 MARK: Ed, let me also point out that Dave Coulter is joining us on the phone today and I don't know whether Dave, if you can respond to that or Ed Murphy's in the room here to respond to that. 

 ED: I'll give a little response, but am I coming through loud and clear? 

 MARK: Yeah, you are. 

 ED: Okay, I believe that was Ron Mandell that asked the question. Ron, when we look across the board at the portfolio overall, just give you a couple of stats and I want to really stress that we're not drawing a straight line through these stats and saying this is what the year is going to be, but if we look at auto finance, for instance, 90-day delinquencies, we're 21 basis points in the fourth quarter and there's 16 in the first quarter. If we look at the early delinquencies of card, as I'm sure you are aware, you flow through various card buckets and the charge offs we're seeing today sort of entered the buckets six months ago. 30-day delinquencies and card have fallen, once again, certainly not a trend, but from 4.77 to 4.57, or 20 basis points. 

 In home finance, we had across the board, although I don't have the stats at my fingertips here, we have across the board reduction in delinquencies even in the manufactured housing business, which has tended to be a pretty coincident indicator with the economy and we are seeing increased charge offs in manufactured housing that sort of reflects the inventory glut of things in the charge off category. But as we look across the board at those early stage delinquency stats, there's some hopeful news. 

 MARK: Suzanne, you want to comment on the commercial side? 

 SUZANNE: Okay. On the commercial side, we have seen now for -during the first quarter, as compared to the fourth quarter, a stabilization, if you will, of the risks deterioration in the commercial portfolio. And then we have, you know, the watch list or those names that are at the bottom of our portfolio in terms of risks profile. That volume has not materially increased quarter over quarter. Again, a quarter - I'd like to see a couple of more quarters to give me the comfort. It's a little bit more difficult, as you know, to have the clarity of visibility on the commercial front, but that is a sign that which gives us hope and helps us in terms of feeling that we are approaching the peak. 

 MARK: Let me just add to that. I think my instinct is on the commercial side our charge offs will continue to be higher than what we consider to be normal, but I think we anticipated that and that's why we added the reserves last year.And so, I think the need to further add to the reserves, while there may be some need on the commercial side, my guess it's more than offset by the easing of pressure on the consumer side and that's why we think it is unlikely, at this time, that we would need to charge earnings beyond the current charge offs in this year. 

 On the expenses, I think really Dina commented on the issues that are there. We do have businesses that are growing as in the consumer business.We have had a positive spread between revenue and expense growth, but, for example, compared to the first quarter of a year ago, you have 18% top line revenue growth and 13% expense growth, which we think is a good spread, both somewhat influenced by the acquisition of the Providian credit card acquisition. But, the point is there's going to be some growth there.There's going to be shrinkage in the areas where we do not have revenue growth. If you net all that together, what we're saying can you consider the cost of severance, which before we've treated below the line. What we're saying is we still think expenses will be somewhat lower in this year than they were last year. Yeah, Robert. 

 MARK: Dina mentioned that the Six Sigma showing up [inaudible] retail and I realize that it's hard to quantify it, but over the month I'm sure you're getting a better feel for what it might do. Can you update us as to any new quantification of its potential, and secondly, could you give us an update of any changes with the state of play of the rating agencies? 

 MARK: I'll respond to the first and let Dina respond to the second.With regard to Six Sigma, we have projects underway - or recently finished or underway - where we think the opportunity for expense savings is on the magnitude of a half a million dollars. We're also starting new projects as we go through the year. We've clearly seen the impact of most in the consumer side. We made a decision last year that that was where we were going to adopt it first because other parts of the bank were in the middle of a merger and it was more difficult to adopt those techniques while you're focused on merger and integration. So, consumers are ahead of the game there. I think they would say that they can already seen several hundred million dollars that benefits us more in the pipeline. So I think the numbers can be quite large and we're optimistic about it. Dina, you want to comment on the rating agency? 

 DINA: We really don't have anything new since about mid-February which is when [inaudible] confirmed the ratings in the firm. The outlook is stable. We've had increased dialogue as you would expect with the rating agencies these past six months versus what we used to have a year and a half ago. But there is nothing to report on beyond that. 

 MARK: Danny. 

 DANNY: Yeah, I was wondering if you could be a little bit more specific on the severance charges you expect to flow through operating expenses - that's number one. And number two, if [basbies] ph proposed changes on STE [ph] and commercial paper go through, how will that impact your targeted Tier 1 capital ratio? 

 MARK: To try to be more specific, the fact is that anything that is that is new beyond what we've said what we estimated, would be a big would be a billion two relating to the merger and relocation initiatives that had already begun prior to last year. That will be charged to non-operating.Anything else that is new, will be charge to operating expenses. inaudible] I can't tell you.I think our feeling is that that net of all those actions will be a slight reduction of expense. But it may be that they'll be higher in the second quarter and you'll get the benefits in the third and fourth quarters. But I'd be reluctant to forecast the exact magnitude of it. with respect to the impact of the changes in the rules regarding STE's [ph], the rules - the perspective changes in the rules are so widely varying from day to day that it's a little bit harder to track exactly what the impact will be. We think we've been conservative in applying the rules thus far. The rules may change and require some consolidation and our view is it will not have a material impact on our ratios. We will probably adjust target ratios because we think we've already captured economic risks of those activities in our internal capital evaluation. And, therefore, if we need to adjust external ratios for some changes in the ground rules, we would consider doing that. But, I'd be hesitant to give an exact impact because the ground rules keep changing so significantly. Mike. 

 MARK: Within investment banking fixed income is doing well. Can you give some of the more detailed reasons that the subsegments that are performing [inaudible] whether or not that momentum is continuing in the second quarter? 

 MARK: In terms of within fixed income? 

 MARK: Fixed income. 

 MARK: Don Layton, do you want to respond to that question? 

 MARK: Yeah.Fixed income has, basically, the mix that the businesses that we tend to call credit products, the bond business largely, is doing well. There's continuing large corporate issuance in this country and abroad, and as you recall [inaudible], we have the -for investment grade bonds, we're number two globally. And that is considering on the trading side up quarter over quarter on the bond side about flat for underwriting.The business that is more tended upon just derivative interest rate flows and treasuries, is doing worse than last year by about a 20%. You recall last year's first quarter was highlighted by Al Greenspan cutting rates dramatically, so it was a rather unusual target they hit, as Dina mentioned, in aggregate the [inaudible] did quite well. In terms of this quarter, bond issuance continues to do well. The theme is not Alan Greenspan cutting rates, but it is a general theme that corporations are shoring up their balance sheets by extending maturities, reducing commercial paper, other short-term borrowings as a general trend so that business, which we had originally thought would go a bit softer from last year's record, because it wouldn't have the rate cuts, is in fact doing quite decently. You have pipeline itself in fixed income. 

 MARK: Jim. 

 JIM: To follow up on that, could you comment on the derivative activity contribution to trading and investment banking. And also, what happened in the custody business this quarter that cross-referenced in slowdown? 

 MARK: I'm going to let Don talk about the custody business, but with regard to derivatives, I think I prefer to defer that until next Friday, a week from Friday when we'll have a very long presentation on derivatives activities and earnings from those activities and risk control in those activities. Don, with regard to custody? 

 MARK: The investor services business as we call it, revenue declined first quarter over first quarter by 10%. It is very heavily tied to the equities business globally.You will - if you look generally at the equities business, whether it's trading or underwriting revenue, you'll find the average industry is down about 40-50%. So it's got a partial market sensitivity with that. Among the custody competitors, our business model is more market sensitive than most because our special fortes have been cross border custody (i.e., peatwed [ph] investors in the US invest outside or vice versa), and that is the most market sensitive part of the business.It also has generally been depressed a bit by interest rate levels because it does earn that interest [inaudible] on the cash that passes through it. But that's not the dominant part. Volumes have been lower in the equities business. Some of our revenues are tied to transaction volumes and such. Yeah, and I should mention, along with Suzanne's comment about credit quality flattening, the revenues are down 10% first quarter first quarter, but are flat in the fourth quarter so we're getting the question of possibly bottoming out here in general. 

 MARK: Okay, I'm going to start with some questions on the phone and then I'll come back in the room. We'll take the first question from the phone. Are there any questions on the phone? 

 CRUSHOUR: Hi, everybody. Two questions, Mark. First, I'm just wondering if you'd talk a little bit broadly about the decision - what was the thought process, a little bit more in terms of the decision to flatten out the reserve building so abruptly. I mean, you had a couple of quarters where it was rising so noticeably and I understand your point that, you know, you're seeing some stabilization and credit ratings and maybe some improvement in the consumer, but given all the intensity of issues surrounding credit, why did you - why are you electing to sort of flatten that out so quickly. And I'm committing [ph] this specific question behind this, I'm curious in the Providian acquisition the reserves that you established there, it sounds like you feel like you have a lot of flexibility on consumer reserving, possibly excess reserves. Did that acquisition actually give you, you know, particular flexibility to draw down, you know, to over provide? 

 MARK: Yeah, those are good questions. Our reserving policy is a fairly quantitative exercise. We go through on commercial loans and evaluate the specific risk of loss on problem credit and general risk of loss on the rest of our portfolio based on historical loss rates for certain buckets. We do the same thing on the consumer side based on the average length of life of each type of credit and the expected loss rates for those credits, both a little historical, but mostly expected loss rates over the next year or so for those credits. When that has the impact, as I think I pointed out last time, when things are deteriorating, it causes you to front end the impact of those charges. Front end them in terms of the fact that you're reserving in anticipation of future losses, that, combined with our policy, which is to take losses aggressively. So, I think it is noteworthy, for example, that in Argentina we did absorb all of those losses in the fourth quarter of last year and reserves. Part of the building of reserves last quarter was specifically for Argentina, or in Enron that we charged it down last quarter down to less than 20% of the face value of the notes. I think the reserving policy, combined with an aggressive recognition of loss policy is what makes it more painful as you go through the early part, of the difficult part of the credit cycle, but it gets you to the peak faster and then there will be a downside where actually reserves will come down. We're not at that point, for sure, but I think what has changed for us is the lessening of likelihood that consumer losses are going to continue to build throughout the year. 

 I would say in the fourth quarter of last year, we might have guessed that that would, with a more negative outlook for the economy and looking at delinquencies, that that might continue to build throughout the year. Now our view would be that we're probably getting closer to a peak in consumer loss ratios. And therefore, the need to add to reserves, or maybe even the expectation that we had last year when we established reserves, that the now expected loss rate may be a little bit lower than what those expectations were. So I think what's changed is the real economy has changed. Our outlook and our experience has changed, and therefore, it causes the more abrupt change in our provisioning.And that is a product of the new world that we live in which causes us to want to up front these problems. 

 As to the second issue that you raised with regard to Providian, when we acquired the Providian assets, even though they are in a securitized trust, the rules are - the accounting rules are - that it all has to be consolidated on the balance sheet until such time as those credit cards revolve over. And then they're deemed to be securitized receivables. So at that time they tend to flow out and that'll take about 18 months, I guess. So that portfolio will run down on our books and, therefore, the reserves for them will run down on our books. Now, from an accounting standpoint, that is offset by the fact that the goodwill that was created with the reserve is amortized over five years or seven years, I guess - 

 [cross-talk] 

 but they're amortized over seven or eight - but that's front loaded, front loaded to the first year. So, in effect, we've got some accounting charges that relate to the accounting, and we do have some relief from the fact that the provision generally will be lower than charge offs related to that specific part of the portfolio. 

 CRUSHOUR: inaudible] on the reserve that you have of Providian, if you look at the reserve relative to expected loss today for that portfolio versus the rest of the card portfolio, how does that relationship compare? 

 MARK: It would be higher because we would expect to have higher losses. 

 CRUSHOUR: But the ratio itself, the ratio itself would be higher? 

 MARK: The ratio itself would be higher. Okay, next question on the phone. 

 MCVEIGH: Good morning. This is a question for Dina. Dina, when you indicated, I think last quarter you said expenses were going to be flat, now you're pointing that they'll be down and that includes, I just want to make sure I understand this, that includes $150 million association of expenses with Providian as well as the severance? And can you give us any update on how we should think about the severance going forward versus this quarter? 

 DINA DUBLON: Yeah, we are looking at expenses to be lower, including the costs of Providian which are not $150 million for the year, they're higher than that, they were $48 million or $46 million for the first two months and they will, as Mark indicated, have a higher lever of intangible amortization as we go forward, but I don't think I indicated the level of expenses for Providian for the year. So, yes, it includes Providian and includes severance costs.We're looking at - it's tied to a revenue outlook so the revenue outlook today is more cautious than the revenue outlook we had in January on the capital market side, on the investment bank side. So that's the context in which we are looking to have expenses being lower than last year. 

 MCVEIGH: 

 DINA DUBLON: No, I can't give you a magnitude.It all depends on the revenue environment. And, you know, I think it's really an indication for you that we are responding to revenue pressures by managing expenses. And focus on the operating ratio on the overhead ratio of the company that is what we are managing too in investment bank, very much so. 

 MARK: And really in any specific business that we operate. 

 MCVEIGH: Right. And then, just - you indicated, one thing you kind of mentioned briefly in passing about share buybacks, can you just walk investors through your mindset of one? What would be the kind of the data points that you would need to go back into repurchase mode? 

 MARK: I think we feel right now that it's a time to be building capital ratios. We worry about - we don't know fully what the impact of the consolidation will be. That will have some impact on capital ratios. And we're not quite at the end of this credit cycle. So, we feel it's prudent to have strong capital ratios.The data points that it would take to resume share buybacks, I think, would be stronger generation of internal earnings, in other words, stronger earnings than what we have right now. Would be higher capital ratios than we have right now, and third, and a clearer signal that we were toward the end of the credit cycle. 

 Now I think all three of those things are going to happen and, you know, I don't know whether it would be the end of this year or sometime next year, but I think they're clearly going to happen, and I think there will be a point at which we have significant generation of free capital. We've been retarded this past year by these heavy non-operating charges which are going down from last year's $2.5 billion pre-tax to this year $1.2 pre-tax.And we've been retarded by very low earnings, which we think has the potential to be higher. But we have had good control of the balance sheet. Loans are down; commercial loans are down 10% from a year ago. They're down 3% from year-end in spite of all the pressures that were in the commercial paper market. So, I think we have had very tight control of the balance sheet and that is - that will continue and that will give us, as these other factors come into play, significant free generation of capital and will enable significant buybacks at some point in time or else the redeployment of that capital into profitable growth. 

 MCVEIGH: Just one follow up and this may be for Jus Dailey [ph], but on Flemmings, and in the asset management division, did the contracts roll off at the end of last year so that will help on the comp side and did we see that? And then two is, I'm surprised that you said you had the highest international flows in five quarters. Can you just give us some color, is that retail, institutional, and what do you see driving that? 

 MARK: Okay, Jus, will you respond to that? 

 JUS: Yeah. Contracts did roll off, so you are seeing part of that on the Flemming side.In terms of the retail asset that Dina talked about, internationally that was the strongest, were essentially flat institutionally and there were mutual funds both in Europe and in Asia. So it's a high-yielding asset rolling in. 

 DAVE: Mark, this is Dave Coulter, could I just add one comment to those just made? 

 MARK: Sure. 

 DAVE: I think Dina, I don't get this opportunity often, so I definitely ought to take it. I think Dina misspoke a bit when she talked about assets under management at the end of the first quarter. She said 538. It should be 583, and that is down from a level of 605 in the fourth quarter and that is all sort of the hunter money market flows which flowed in strongly throughout last year and flowed up somewhat in the first quarter. 

 MARK: It's duly noted, but I think the important point is the one that Jus made and that is the mix of the assets is what's important.Our highest margin assets are European and Asian retail equity mutual funds. And that is where we're beginning to see some more positive signs. In the retail flows, first quarter over fourth quarter were up 16%. Okay, next question in the room. Yeah. 

 MAN: Looking at the level of interest income and interest expense and the yield on the spread, in light of the current economic environment, in terms of interest rates going forward, what are you looking forward to in terms of the rate situation and what are we looking for in terms of maybe, perhaps, that improvement on the interest margin? 

 MARK: Our view is if the economy is improving and will continue to improve, that rates will begin to go up sometime this summer or fall. We are not particularly exposed plus or minus to the impact of rising rates so I don't think it will have a negative affect on us. I think the affect will be more positive because of the pick up in economic activity and its impact on credit, on private equity valuation and on the M&A activity.So, my guess is the impact on that interest income per se will be fairly neutral but the impact on our business will be positive. Next question. Yeah. 

 MAN: Short one. First of all, from Dina's comments, I got the sense that you might not be doing the NASDAQ hedge going forward given the lack of correlation. Is that true? 

 MARK: We looked at different hedging techniques and we may not be using that one. 

 MAN: Okay. And then just a couple of brief ones. Goodwill declined $270 million or so in the quarter. 

 MARK: I think it was more a reclassification from goodwill to intangibles as we're looking at what needs to be amortized going forward. 

 MAN: Okay, and there's one last one, delinquencies, the dollar amount delinquencies did rise pretty significantly in the credit card business sequentially. Was any of that related to Providian, but I thought you took only the higher problem stuff that wasn't kind of 90-day plus with Providian. 

 MARK: Yeah, I think you're right, [inaudible], but we do take some with delinquencies - that are delinquent. So, with an $8 billion addition to our portfolio and the fact that it was acquired on February 1st and this data is of March 31st, there would be some significant impact from delinquencies from that portfolio. I think it was most of that portfolio went up a little bit as Suzanne pointed out - 90-day delinquencies are up slightly, 30-day and 60-day delinquencies are down. Yeah. 

 MAN: Perhaps everyone knows this, but in the past few years, you have spoken, I think about the retail area with revenues growing so rapidly and I've heard presentations of Pacific Northwest Mortgage thing and the auto thing and then Brown, what are the factors that are causing this rapid growth in retail? 

 MARK: Dave, would you say it's management or what? 

 DAVE: I'd definitely say good management. Really, it's across the board. We are - we have very strong underlying businesses and Chase Home Finance were the number two originator, number three servicer.It generated $180 billion of mortgage product last year. That has continued - that pace activity has continued into the first quarter. We have a great mortgage company. And the card business, we talked last time about why we were interested in Providian. I think we began by saying look, we feel like the new management team there over the last two years has created a very solvent operational platform that we could build off of, and I think you're beginning to see that they've also created a marketing platform. 

 In this year, in '02, we plan to do what we call 35,000 marketing tests.That's all sorts of marketing variations of, you know, which products work, where, for what demographics, what terms. The standard in this business is Cap One who, I think, who would probably say well they do 60,000 marketed tests a year. That number for us, that degree of market, sort of, penetration is up from 500 market tests two years ago.So I think across the board, as you look at the products we're putting out and the branch and middle market structure we have in New York we're just seeing great flows. The share of the small business, for instance, in New York is up from about 18% to, I think, about 24% in terms of primary market share in the New York market. Next closest competitor is Six. So, we're seeing the results of, I think, in a kind of top line growth of this franchise that sort of reflects its underlying strength. 

 MARK: Okay, next question on the phone. 

 GLOUSMAN: Thanks. Good morning, everybody.As the leader in mortgage syndications, or I should say loan syndications, and the introduction of market flex, could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of pricing flexibility in the face of corporate demand to term out their credit and how much room you think you might have to cut your loan portfolio even as your clients might be even more interested in taking down bank debt as opposed to more market sensitive credit. 

 MARK: Geoff Boisi is here. Geoff, would you like to respond to that question? 

 GEOFFREY BOISI: I don't have a really great answer for that to be honest with you.I mean, we're, you know, seeing an uptick in terms of the whole leverage finance area right now, but from a specific pricing standpoint, to be honest, I don't have a specific answer. I don't know. Do you? 

 MARK: I don't think pricing power is as strong as you would think it would be in this environment. So, I think we're still dealing with fairly low margins. 

 GLOUSMAN: Do you guys see any ability to push that at the margin or willingness to, perhaps, take more credit on balance sheet temporarily with a view towards being able to term it out as the market turns around? Or I should say, as risk appetite on the part of investors increases? 

 MARK: Well, we haven't changed our standards about the need to syndicate 90% or more of credits. And that's essential to our philosophy in terms of diversifying credit exposure and that remains our standard. 

 GEOFFREY BOISI: Yeah, I think the important point here is that we continue to be very aggressive in this marketplace. We're responding on, obviously, a case by case basis.We have taken a very, very sharp look at our overall portfolio, but the marketplace, I think, is seeing from us a continued aggressive stance, both in terms of our willingness to commit capital and our aggressiveness in pricing. Having said that, we're trying to be exceedingly prudent.We see an environment out there, particularly as we see companies take strategic moves, combining those strategic moves looking at what the corporate finance activity is, we are - we have used our balance sheet quite aggressively in helping [inaudible] through that period of time, both in terms of our willingness to commit capital, but also from a pricing standpoint. In general, right now, we're seeing exceedingly competitive markets as Citi Group, in particular, has been quite aggressive and we've been responding to that. But our position as it relates to syndicated lump [ph] market, has - you know, we've maintained our leadership position and, you know, on a month to month basis, that's been improving. 

 MARK: I think the one thing that's clear is that having leadership across all debt products is an enormous competitive advantage and I don't think it's an accident that one and two players in loan syndication and investment rates and debt issuance are the same is an accident. Because I think, having a combined product set across the whole range of debt is an enormous capability. 

 GEOFFREY BOISI: And I would just add, and Don mentioned before, we see our pipeline, particularly in the fixed income area, but I'd also say in the equity area, but particularly in the fixed income area, because that's what you're questioning, has started to increase over the last couple of months. 

 MARK: Next question from the phone. 

 MARK: Yeah, can you give us a sense of how we should project the corporate line? I'm speaking about the line that had $150 million loss this quarter and a $257 million loss in the fourth quarter. How should we think about that going forward? 

 MARK: I think you should think of it as a small loss. There are instances - there are times when we had charges that don't get allocated, but our instinct over time is to try to make that as small as possible and to allocate everything out. So, over time, I would expect it to be something that would shrink. 

 MARK: So what types of things might have shown up in that line item this quarter versus the fourth quarter? 

 MARK: Well, I think the reason that it probably came down from the fourth quarter is that part of the unallocated provision increase in the fourth quarter went to the corporate sector. 

 MARK: Okay. And when you say small, you mean small as in $150 million? 

 MARK: Well, the problem is there's about 50 things that go into it that all net out to that, and I think, over time, what I would do is expect it to be smaller. 

 MARK: Okay, thanks. 

 MARK: Next question on the phone. 

 MARK: Good afternoon. Two questions here. Wheat [ph] made some comments yesterday about their exposure to the venture capital business and the fact that they wanted to limit their exposure, to lessen their exposure. I mean on a de facto basis, you've been lessening your exposure, but I haven't really heard too much philosophical discussion of that business and its claim on capital. So if you could address that. And secondly, a really big question here, excluding the four, sort of special and not controllable factors that you cited, Mark, about - that have impacted the merger, sort of looking beyond those, where do you feel that the Chase Morgan merger has worked really well and where has it worked really poorly? 

 MARK: Okay. With regard to private equity, I think we've been clear that our path to getting to a - well, let me back up a minute. We have a great private equity business and one that has outperformed its peers over a long period of time. On the other hand, we feel that we have had too large a concentration in that portfolio. And the best way to deal with that over time is to invest less going forward.We are doing that by getting more third party money and by lowering the pace of investments. Right now, we're around 21 or 22%, I think, of Tier 1 capital in terms of the $8.5 billion balance of that portfolio. A perspective, prior to the merger, that number was as high as 38%. I think our target over time would be to reduce it to around 15% and that will happen because of a lower investment pace over a several year period of time. We do think it's a business that integrates well with the rest of our [inaudible] that provides a lot of value to the corporate and private banking businesses and does produce above-average shareholder returns over time. 

 With respect to the merger, I think what has worked well is the people integration, the addition of trying to get the all star team from two large institutions has worked well, and relative to the expectations that you always set in these mergers, our retention has been good. I think what has not worked well is simply we've been in this difficult market environment and that's made it more problematic than the last two mergers where we had a lot of wind on our back. Over the long run, of course, it's not bad to go through difficult periods because it forges teamwork, it causes people to work together.It has certainly forced us to relook at the way certain expenses are set and recalibrate that in a way which I think over time will produce much more earnings. It has been a challenge, but one I think that we have dealt with successfully. Dina, would you like to make a comment? 

 DINA DUBLON: Yeah, I would like to add that we have merged about a year, a year and a quarter ago. We, overall, have gained share in a shrinking market. But we have gained share in the first year of the merger. So, the success of the merger is not just - the final is the success with the client and the fact that we have been able despite our going through the merger to gain share is an indication of the success of the model and execution. 

 MARK: Okay, I think we'll take one more question on the phone and then one in the room and then we'll conclude and we'll be happy to stay here for those that have additional questions. Last question from the phone. 

 OPERATOR: I'm showing no questions on the telephone. 

 MARK: Okay. Is there a question in the room? Okay, that's easier than I thought it would be. Thank you very much for being here and as I said, we'll be able to stay a minute or two afterwards. April 26th is the meeting on derivatives. Thanks. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   AN
Document fndw000020021231dy4h000ba
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q1  2002 J.P.  Morgan  Chase & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
5,791 words
   PD
17 April 2002
   ET
03:00 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Dina Dublon, CFO   . (Indiscernible) 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Operating earnings excluding JPMP, EPS for 1Q02 was $0.69, down $0.05 from 1Q01. Consolidated operating earnings for 1Q02 were $1.15b. Q&A focus: Business segments. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call   1. Consolidated operating earnings for 1Q02 were $1.15b   2. Loan loss reserves were up $480m   3. Reserves are up by $1.3b from 1Q01   4. Non-performing assets are up almost $400m   5. 1Q02 operating expenses were $230m 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. 1Q02 Results Analysis - Dina Dublon   1. Operating earnings for 2001 have been restated by adding back      goodwill amortization to present 2001 results on a basis      comparable to 1Q02, which included the adoption of SFAS 142.   2. Results exceeded by a few cents, much better than weak 4Q. The      revenue environment remains slow and compared to the 1Q01,      results are down; therefore focus on expense management.     1. Credit costs decline from high 4Q as loan loss provision        equaled loan losted this quarter. 

 B. Business Segments - Dina Dublon   1. Retail lead the way with a record quarter.   2. Investment managment and private banking had the benefit of      lower expenses and a very large improvement in the pretax      margin.   3. The investment bank delivered ROE of 16% in a difficult      operating environment.   4. J.P. Morgan's partners (JPMP) recorded another loss driven by      the decline in the market price of Triton PCS.   5. Maintaining strong liquidity and capital and there is a premium      for both. 

 C. Earnings Per Share - Dina Dublon   1. Operating earnings excluding JPMP, EPS for 1Q02 was $0.69, down      $0.05 from 1Q01.   2. Consolidated operating EPS was contributed by JPMP with $0.12,      down from $0.17 4Q01.   3. Non-operating charges were $0.09. 

 D. Operating Results - Dina Dublon   1. Consolidated operating earnings for 1Q02 were $1.15b.   2. ROE for 1Q02 was 11% better than the prior three quarters but      still weak.   3. Relating to the 1Q01, revenues were down 8%, 5% of that decline      is from the loss from JPMP vs. a gain in the 1Q01.   4. Expenses were down by 8% as well.   5. JPMP realize gain for the quarter were negative $13m including about equal amount $170m each in cash realized gain and in write-offs from direct investments.   6. At $170m per quarter, write-offs are higher than what we can see      normal but do not see the systematic concentration issues that      drove the large loss last year.   7. Market-to-market losses was about $240m, about $200m of which      were driven by Triton PCS.   8. Excluding JPMP, the rest of the company earnings were about      $1.4b for 1Q02 compared to about $1.5b for 1Q01.   9. ROE for the rest of the company was 16% despite the state of the      capital market and where the company is in the credit cycle. 

 E. Operating Expenses - Dina Dublon   1. 4Q01 operating expenses was $4.8b, almost $800m lower than when      the company announced the merger. It was $3m lower annual      spending rate.   2. 1Q02 operating expenses were up and include $100m      non-merger-related Severance costs, the charge for Sumitomo and      the addition of Providian, a total of $230m.   3. Given softness in revenues, the company is already working to      reduce capacity. Costs of such actions will continue to flow      through operating expenses this year.   4. Each business is managing to a targeted overhead ratio inclusive      of costs to execute their program and all businesses are      managing to improve the ratio from last year.   5. As stated in Jan. on modest improvement in revenue, the company      was targeting flat expenses. Since then the company has closed      on the acquisition of Providian, which adds over $250m in expenses.   6. Without the revenues, the company will manage expenses to be      down from last year.   7. Expenses and revenues have been restated to reflect recent      accounting guidance effected in Jan. 

 F. Credit Costs - Dina Dublon   1. Commercial charge-offs are still at a very high level, 127 basis      points of loan. It is driven by pressure on the telecom sector,      an area of focus for the last year.   2. The credit card charge-off ratio is higher as expected. Losses      on the providian portfolio was included for two months.   3. Providian will contribute to a higher charge-off ratio on the combined portfolio.   4. In total, the provision for loan losses equaled charge-offs.   5. In 4Q01, loan loss provision exceeded charge-offs by $650m as      ratings in the commercial portfolio had deteriorated and losses      on consumer loans. 

 G. Reserves - Dina Dublon   1. Loan loss reserves were up $480m from Dec. primarily because of      the initial reserves setup for the Providian portfolio.   2. Reserves are up by $1.3b from 1Q01.   3. On the consumer side, the company should see lower reserve requirement.   4. In total, the company does not see the need to increase reserves      in 2002.   5. The ratio of commercial reserves to commercial loans is up to      1.8% in 1Q02 from 1.4% in 1Q01.   6. The ratio of total reserves to total loans is up to 2.3% in 1Q02      from 1.7% in 1Q01. 

 H. Non-performing Assets and Commercial Loans - Dina Dublon   1. Non-performing assets are up almost $400m primarily from one commercial loan in Europe.   2. Argentina was not an issue for the company this quarter.   3. Net of allocated reserves exposure is down to $360m with net      loans and commitment representing a little over $100m.   4. Commercial loans were down 10% from last year despite commitment. 

 I. Retail and Middle Market Results - Dina Dublon   1. Retail and middle market lead the way this quarter with record      earnings of $526m and ROE of 22%.   2. The Providian acquisition closed in early Feb. adding $150m to      revenues.   3. This coupled with the continuation of strong business volumes      lead to revenue growth of 18% over a year-ago quarter.   4. Card added new accounts of over 900,000, the sixth consecutive      quarter of such increases.   5. Mortgage had strong results driven by continued low interest      rates and with strong housing market.   6. Auto origination set a new record and deposit volumes up almost      14%.   7. The business experienced positive operating leverage from Six      Sigma productivity initiative.   8. The focus on end-to-end processing, doing it right the first      time, and explicit consideration of the voice of the client is      adding momentum to the retail business.   9. Credit cards increased from the 1Q due to higher outstanding and      higher loss ratio.   10. In total, provision for credit losses was $60m lower than consumer charge-offs in 1Q02 compared to $250m higher than charge-offs in the 4Q02. 

 J. Investment Managment and Private Banking - Dina Dublon   1. Investment management and private banking were up 30% from 4Q01      and 19% from 1Q01.   2. ROE was 8%, tangible ROE which eliminates the goodwill is higher      at 26%.   3. Revenue levels are down from 2001 but increased modestly from      4Q01.   4. Lower expenses drove the earnings growth and increase in pretax      margin to 22% despite higher credit costs in the last 6 months.   5. The retail fund business showed inflows from year-end with      particular strength on the international side, where inflows      were at five quarter high.   6. Investment bank earnings at $755m are down 27% from the 1Q and      more than double the low 4Q level. ROE was 16%.   7. Low market activity and high credit costs have continued to put      pressure on expense management.   8. Operating expenses in the quarter include the incremental costs      of settlement with Sumitomo, which belongs to this line of      business as well as Severance costs beyond the previously      planned merger and restructuring cost.   9. Despite the expense pressure created by the Severance,      Investment bank managed a very strong financial discipline to   10. An overhead ratio of 58%. This is lower than the prior target      of 60%.   11. Trading revenues were down 19% vs. a very strong 1Q01, the      second best ever, and were up 66% from a very low 4Q01, which      included the impact of Enron in Argentina.   12. Equities trading was down from 1Q01 but up from a very weak      4Q01. 13. Declines in advisory are in line with the peers, lost share in a very tight market.   14. The company was number three underwriter, for the first time,      of stocks and bonds globally. 

 K. Treasury and Security Services - Dina Dublon   1. Treasury and security services income is down about 15% from      both 4Q01 and 1Q01.   2. ROE was down to 19%.   3. Revenue decline was lead by investor services.   4. Institutional trust revenues were up from both 4Q01 and 1Q01.   5. Treasury services revenues were up from 1Q01 driven by higher      deposit volume.   6. Expenses were up 3% YoY and 4% from 4Q01. 

 L. Liquidity and Capital Management - Dina Dublon   1. Raised $8b in additional liquidity in 1Q02 and extended average      maturity of commercial paper and long-term debt.   2. Managing Tier 1 ratio that is higher that the target.   3. Resume repurchases when free capital generation accelerates. 

 M. In Summary - (Indiscernible)   1. The progress of the company since the merger has been obscure      due to the following four reasons: 1. The credit cycle becoming a much more negative affect on earnings causing the company to bear the results.     2. Reversal of the private equity valuation, which has caused        considerable reduction in what was previously earnings and in        need to write down some investments.     3. Weakness in all capital market activities, which the company        has not been immuned from in terms of decline in M&A marketplace and follow up on impact of that in terms of financing.     4. The publicity associated with Enron, which was true initially        and continues to be true.   2. The first three of those things are cyclical and the last,      hopefully, is a one-time event even though it may have a long      tail in terms of publicity. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  Could you elaborate on what you are seeing as the leading indicators  of product mix? Could you give more quantification of your outlook  for expenses this year? Could you elaborate on that?  Are you looking for a dollar decline? (Ron Mandell [phonetic], co. name indiscernible) 

 A.  On the consumer side, it is easier to have a vision as to credit. We  are seeing an improvement in the delinquency rates particularly at this point in the earlier maturity. This has been a witness in evidence through 1Q02.  When we look across the board at the  portfolio overall, just give you a couple of stats and I want to  really stress that we are not drawing a straight line through the  stats and saying this is what the year is going to be. If we look at  auto finance for instance, 90-day delinquencies were 21 basis points  in 4Q and 16 in 1Q. The charge-offs that we are seeing the days that  have entered the buckets six months ago, 30-day delinquencies in  card have fallen from 4.77 to 4.57 or 20 basis points. In home  finance, we had across the board, although I don't have the stats at  my fingertips here, we have across the board reduction in  delinquencies even in the manufactured housing business, which  tended to be a pretty coincident indicator with the economy and we  are seeing increased charge-offs in manufactured housing. 

 Q2.  Could you comment on the commercial side? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  On the commercial side, during 1Q that compared to 4Q, a stabilization if you will of the risk deterioration in the  commercial portfolio and then we have the watch list of those names  that are at the bottom of our portfolio in terms of risk profile.  That volume has not materially increased QoverQ. 

 A.  On the commercial side, our charge-offs will continue to be higher than what we consider to be normal but we think anticipated that and that is why we added new reserves last year. There may be some need  on the commercial side and my guess is this is more than offset by  the easing of pressure on the consumer side and that is why we think  it is unlikely at this time that we would need charge earnings  beyond current charge-offs in this year. On the expenses, on the  issues that are there, we do have businesses that are growing as in  consumer business, we have had a positive spread between revenue and  expense growth. Compared to 1Q01, you have 18% outline revenue  growth and 13% (Indiscernible) are both somewhat influenced by the  acquisition of the Providian credit card acquisition. There is going  to be some growth there. There is going to be shrinkage in the areas  where we do not have revenue growth. We still think expenses will be  somewhat lower in this year than it was last year. 

 Q3.  You had mentioned Six Sigma showing off a (Indiscernible) retail. Can you update us (Indiscernible) new quantification of its  potential? Could you give us an update of any changes with the state  of play of the rating agencies? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  With regard to Six Sigma, we have projects on our way. We think the  opportunity for expense savings is on the magnitude of $0.5b. We are  also starting new projects as we go through the year. We have clearly seen the impact of both in the consumer side. Our consumer  is ahead of the game there, they would say, (Indiscernible) several hundred million dollars of benefit (Indiscernible) pipeline. So, I think the numbers can be quite large and we are optimistic about that.We really don't have anything new mid February which is when Moodys (Indiscernible) as stable, which had increased dialogue as  you would expect with the rating agencies this past six months vs.  what we used to have a year and half ago. 

 Q4.  Could you be a little bit more specific on the severance charges you  expect to (Indiscernible) your operating expenses? If FASB proposed  changes on (Indiscernible) go through, how about (Indiscernible)  targeted tier 1 capital ratio? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  The fact is anything that is new beyond what we estimated would be (Indiscernible) related to the merger and relocation initiatives  that had already begun prior to last year. That will be charged to non-operating. Anything else that is new will be charged to  operating expenses. Net of all those actions will be a slight  reduction of expense, but it maybe that it could be higher in 2Q and  you will get the benefits in 3Q and 4Q, but I will be reluctant to  forecast these at magnitude level. With respect to the impact of the  changes in the rules regarding (Indiscernible) the prospective  changes in the rules are so largely varying from day to day, but it  is a little bit hard to check exactly what the impact will be. We  think we have been conservative in applying the rules this far. The  rules may change and require some consolidation and our view is it  will not have a material impact on our ratios. We will probably  adjust (Indiscernible) because we think we have already captured the  economic risk of those activities in our internal capital  evaluation. Therefore, if we need to adjust external ratios for some  changes in the ground rules, we would consider doing that.  I would  be hesitant to because of the significant changes in ground rules. 

 Q5.  Within investment banking, (Indiscernible). Can you give more detail  into the (Indiscernible) continuing in 2Q? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  Fixed income has basically (Indiscernible) in doing well. The business that is more tended upon derivative interest rates (Indiscernible) and treasuries is doing worse than last year but at 20%, you recall last year's 1Q was highlighted by (Indiscernible) cutting rates dramatically and (Indiscernible). In terms on this quarter, bond issuance continues to do well. The theme is not (Alan Greenspan cutting rates but it is a general theme that corporations are showing up their (Indiscernible) spending maturities, reducing commercial papers, other short-term borrowings is the general trend, so that business we had originally thought before, (Indiscernible). 

 Q6.  Could you comment on the derivatives activity of (Indiscernible) trading and investment banking and also what happened in the custody business this quarter (Indiscernible)? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  (Indiscernible) a very long presentation on (Indiscernible) activities and earnings from those activities and risk control in those activities. 

 A.  The investor services are very heavily tied to the equities business  globally. If you look at the equity business, whether it is trading  or underwriting revenue, you will find the average industry is down  about 40-50%, so it has got a partial market (Indiscernible) of 50%.  On cost of custody competitors, our business model is (Indiscernible) more market sensitive than most (Indiscernible)  cross border custody, and that is the most market sensitive part of  the business. Revenues are down 10% for 1Q. Compared to 4Q, 1Q is  flat. 

 Q7.  Could you talk about the decision? What was the thought process in  terms of the decision to flatten out the reserve buildings? You had a couple of quarters where it was surprising, I understand you point that we are seeing some stabilization in credit ratings and some improvement in the consumer, but given all the intensity of issues surrounding credit, why have your levels flattened out so quickly? I am curious about the Providian acquisition reserves that you have established there, it sounds like you have lot of flexibility on consumer reserve and possibly excess reserves. Does that acquisition give particular flexibility to go down? (Jay Vleeschhouwer  (Phonetic) - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  Our reserving policy is a fairly quantitative exercise. We go through on commercial loans and evaluate (Indiscernible) loss on problem credit and general list of loss on the rest of our portfolio based on historical loss rates for certain buckets. We do the same thing on a consumer side based on the average length of life of each type of credit and the expected loss rate for those credits both, a little bit historical but mostly expected loss rate over the next  year or so for those credits. When that has the impact, when things  are deteriorating it causes you to front-end the impact of those  charges. Front-end in terms of preserving in anticipation of future  losses. That combined with our policy, which is,to take losses  aggressively . So, I think it is not possible (Phonetic), for  example, back in Argentina, we did absorb all of our losses in 4Q01  and reserve part of the building of reserves last quarter was  specifically for Argentina. On Enron that we charged down last  quarter to less than 20% of the phase of the North (Phonetic). I  think the reserve policy combined with an aggressive recognition of  loss policy is what makes it more painful as you go through the  early part of the difficult part of the credit cycle. But, it gets  you to the peak faster and when (Indiscernible) actually reserves  will come down at that point for sure. I think what has changed for  us is the lessening of likelihood that consumer houses are going to  continue to build throughout the year. I would say as in 4Q01, we  might get with a more negative outlook for the economy and looking at delinquencies as that might continue to build throughout the  year. Now, our (Indiscernible) probably getting close to a  (Indiscernible) and consumer loss rate and therefore the need to add  to reserves or maybe even the expectation that we had last year when  we established the reserves that the now expected loss rate may be a  little bit lower than what those expectations were. So, I think what  has changed is the real economy has changed, our outlook and our  experience has changed and therefore it causes a more abrupt change  in our (Indiscernible) and that's the product of the new world that  we live in, which causes us to want to upfront, the top. With  regards to Providian, when we acquired the Providian assets,  eventhough they are in a securitized trust, the rules are that all  has to be consolidated on the balance sheet until such time as those  credit cards are (Indiscernible). They are deemed to be securitized  receivable. At that time, they tend to flow out and that would take  about 18 months. So, that portfolio will run down on our book and  therefore the reserve for them will run down on our book. From an  accounting standpoint, that is offset by the fact that the goodwill that was created with the reserves is amortized over in 5 years. So, in effect we have got some accounting charges that relates to the accounting and we do have some relief from the fact that the  provision generally will be lowered in charges related to that  statistics part of the portfolio. 

 Q8.  On the reserves that you have in Providian, if you look at the reserves relative to expected loss today of that portfolio vs. the rest of the card portfolio, how does that relationship compare? (Jay Vleeschhouwer (Phonetic) - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  It would be higher because we would expect to have higher losses. 

 Q9.  Will the ratio itself be higher? (Jay Vleeschhouwer (Phonetic) - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  The ratio itself will be higher. 

 Q10.  Last quarter it was said that expenses were going to be flat and now  it is pointed out that they will be down and that includes $150m association expenses with Providian as well as the severance. Can  you give us any update on how we should think about the severance  going forward vs. this quarter? (Henry HcVey - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  Yes. We are looking at expenses to be lower including the cost of Providian, which was not $150m for the year. They are higher than that. They were $48m or $46m for the first two months. They will  have a higher levels (Indiscernible) as we go forward. But, I don't  think I indicated the level of expenses for Providian for the year.  Yet, it includes Providian and includes severance cost. It is right  to our revenue outlook, more cautious than the revenue outlook we  had in Jan. on the capital market side and on the investment bank  side. The context in which we are looking to have the expenses being  lower than last year. 

 Q11.  Can you give us any magnitude, you were talking about 5% or more?  (Henry HcVey - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  I can't give you a magnitude because it all depends on the revenue environment. I think it's really an indication for you that we are responding to revenue pressures by managing expenses. So, the focus  on the overhead ratio will become (Indiscernible). 

 Q12.  Can you just mention briefly about share buybacks? Can you just walk  through your mindset on what would be the data point need to go back  into repurchase? (Henry HcVey - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  I think we feel right now that it's time to be building our capital  ratios. We don't know fully what the impact of the consolidation  will be that will have some impact on capital ratios. We are not  quite at the end of this credit cycle. So, we feel it is prudent to  have strong capital ratio. The datapoint that would take to resume  share buyback would be stronger generation of internal earnings,  stronger earnings than what we have right now would be higher  capital ratios than right now. (Indiscernible) credit cycle. I think  all three of those things are going to happen and I don't know whether it would be at the end of this year or sometime next year. But, I think there are clearly going to happen and I think there  will be a point at which we have significant generation of capital.  We have been retarded (Indiscernible) about the semi (Phonetic)  non-operating charges, which are going down from last year's 2.5b  (Indiscernible) to this year 1.2b (Indiscernible). When we talked  about very low earnings, which we think have the potential to be  higher, we have had good control of the balance sheet. Our  commercial loans are down 10% from a year ago. They are down 3% from  year-end and despite of all the pressures that were in the  commercial paper market. So, I think we have had very tight control  of the balance sheet and that will continue and that will give us,  as these other factors come into play, significant free generation  of capital and will enable significant buyback at some point in time  or else there will be deployment of that capital into profitable  growth. 

 Q13.  On Fleming Asset Management division, did the contracts roll off at  the end of last year so that will help on the comp side? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  The contracts did roll off. So, you are seeing part of that on the Fleming side. 

 Q14.  You said that you have the highest international flows in five quarters. Can you just give us some colors of retail, institutional, and what do you see driving that? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  In terms of the retail asset that is seen and talked about internationally, it was the strongest, was essentially flat institutionally and there were mutual funds both in Europe and in Asia, with high yield in asset rolling in. 

 A.  Assets under the management at the end of 1Q was said wrongly in the  summary, it was said as 538, it should be 583, and that is down from  a level of 605 in 4Q. 

 A.  The highest margin assets are the European and a retail equity mutual fund and that is where we are beginning to see some more  funds (Phonetic). 

 A.  In the retail, 1Q over 4Q were up 16%. 

 Q15.  Looking at the level of the interest income and interest expense and  the yield of the spread, in light of the current economic environment, in terms of interest rates going forward, what are you looking forward in terms of the rate situation and what are you looking for in terms (Indiscernible) perhaps better improved mix margin on the interest? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  Our view is that the economy is improving and will continue to improve and that rates will begin to go up some time this Summer or Fall. We are not particularly exposed plus or minus to the impact of rising rates. So, I don't think it will have a negative effect on  us. I think the effect will be more positive because of the pickup  in economic activity and it has impact on (Indiscernible), on cost  equity evaluation, and on the M&A. The impact on net interest income  will be fairly neutral, but the impact on the business will be  positive. 

 Q16.  (`DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO, THIS PORTION OF THE EVENT BRIEF  SUMMARY HAS BEEN EXCLUDED.`) Is that true? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  We might not be using that. 

 Q17.  Goodwill declined $278m or so in the quarter. Was there an impairment taken that didn't float (Phonetic) with the income statement or was there some unusual adjustment? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  I think there (Indiscernible) reclassification from goodwill to intangibles as we are looking at what need to be amortized going forward. 

 Q18.  Dollar amount delinquencies did rise pretty significantly in the credit card business sequentially. Was any of that related to (Indiscernible)? 

 A.  We didn't take some that are delinquent. So, with the $8b addition to the portfolio and the fact that it was (Indiscernible) on Feb. 1 and the data was on March 31. There would be some significant impact from delinquencies on the portfolio. I think most of that portfolio went up a little bit as 90-day delinquencies are up slightly, 30-day and 60-day delinquencies are down. 

 Q19.  In the past few years, you have spoken about the retail area that  things were going very rapidly (Indiscernible). What are the factors  that are causing this rapid growth in retail? 

 A.  I would definitely say good management. Across the board, we have very strong underlying businesses and Chase (Indiscernible) finance who were the #2 originator #3 servicer, generated $180b of mortgage product last year. That pace of activity has continued into 1Q. We have a great mortgage company. In the card business we talked last time about why we were interested in (Indiscernible). I think we  began by saying what we feel is that the new management team there  for the last two years has created a very solid operational platform  that we could build off of. We are beginning to see that they have  also created a marketing platform. This year, in 2002, we will plan  to do what we call 35,000 marketing tests. The degree of market  penetration is up from 500 market tests two years ago. As you look  at the products we are putting out and the branch and new market  structure we have in New York, we are just seeing great flows. We  are seeing the results of getting the kind of the top line growth  out of this franchise that affects this underlying strength. 

 Q20.  As the leader and loans indications (Phonetic) and introduction of  market flex, could you talk a little bit about what you are seeing in terms of pricing flexibility in the base of corporate demand to term out their credits? How much room do you think you might have to cut your loan portfolio even as your clients (Indiscernible) might  be even more interested in taking down bank debt as opposed to more  market sensitive credits? (Diane Grossman (Phonetic) - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We are seeing an up tick in terms of the leverage finance area right  now but for the specific pricing standpoint. I don't have a specific  answer. 

 A.  I don't think the price of (Indiscernible) is strong as you think it  would be in this environment. I think we are still dealing with very  low margins. 

 Q21.  Do you see any ability to push that at the merger or willingness to  perhaps take more credit on balance sheet temporarily with a view towards being able to term it out as the market turns around? (Diane Grossman (Phonetic) - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We haven't changed our standards about the need to syndicate 90% or  more of credits and that have been central to our philosophy in terms of diversifying credit exposure, and that remains our standards. 

 A.  The important pint here is that we continue to be very aggressive in  this marketplace. We have taken a very sharp look at our overall portfolio that the marketplace continued aggressive stand, both in terms of our willingness to commit capital and aggressiveness in pricing. Having said that, we are trying to be exceeding (Indiscernible). We see an environment out there particularly as we see companies take strategic moves and combining those strategic  moves and looking out what (Indiscernible) finance activity is. We  have used our balance sheet quite aggressively in helping find  through that period of time. In general, we are seeing exceedingly  competitive market. City Groups (Phonetic) in particular have been  quite aggressive and we have been responding to that. We have  maintained our leadership position and we have been improving.  Particularly (Indiscernible) sequentially has started to increase  over the last couple of months. 

 Q22.  Can you give us a sense of how we should project the corporate line  that had $150m loss this quarter and $257m in 4Q? How should we think about that going forward? (John Coffee (Phonetic) - City  Groups (Phonetic)) 

 A.  I think you should think about it as a small loss. There are at times when we had charges that don't get allocated but our instinct over time is to try to make that as small as possible and allocate everything else. Over time I would expect it to be something that would (Indiscernible). 

 Q23.  What kind of things might have shown up in that line item in this  quarter vs. 4Q? (John Coffee (Phonetic) - City Groups (Phonetic)) 

 A.  The reason why it came down from 4Q is that part of the unallocated  provision increased in 4Q went to the corporate sector. 

 Q24.  When you think small, you mean smaller than a $150m? (John Coffee  (Phonetic) - City Groups (Phonetic)) 

 A.  The problem is that there are about 50 things that going into it. Overtime what I would do is expect it to be a smaller. 

 Q25.  Fleet made some comments yesterday about their exposure to venture  capital business and the fact that they wanted to pre-limit their  exposure. On a defactor (Phonetic) basis, you have been lessening  your exposure but haven't really heard any philosophical discussion  of that business and its claim on capital. Can you address that?  Excluding the four special and not controllable factors that impacted the merger, where do you feel the Chase-Morgan merger has worked really well and where has it worked really poorly? (Nancy  Bush (Phonetic) - (Indiscernible)) 

 A.  We had a great private equity business, and one that has outperformed over a long period of time. On the other had we feel  that we had had too large a concentration (Indiscernible). The best  way to deal with that over time is to invest less going forward. We  are doing that by getting (Indiscernible) money and by lowering the  pace of investment. Right now, we are around 21% or 22%  (Indiscernible) capital in terms of that $8.5b balance of that  portfolio. Prior to the merger that number was as high as 38%. Our  target overtime will be to reduce that to around 15% and that will  happen because of a lower (Indiscernible) over a several year period  of time. I think it is a business that integrates well and thus  produce above average shareholder returns overtime. With respect to  the merger, what has worked well is the people integrations., trying  to get people from two large institutions has worked well and  relative to the expectation in these mergers, our retention has been  set. This difficult market environment has made it more problematic.  Over the long time of course, it is not bad to go through difficult  periods because it forces team work that cause people to work  together. Expenses are set and we calibrate that in a way that over  time it will produce much more earnings. It has been a challenge. 

 A.  We have merged about a year and a quarter ago. We overall have seen  share in a shrinking market but we have seen share in the first year  of merger. 

   CO
cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150108 : Credit Cards | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4h0033m
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and (hd=jpmorgan or hd=morgan) not hd=event and co=jpm
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
25
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:50 AM GMT
  
